

201 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Equity Firms In Europe Struggling For Funds

BYLINE: By MARK SCOTT

 BODY:
LONDON - As the sovereign debt crisis has slammed Europe, Cinven has had to get creative to finance buyouts.
When the London-based private equity firm wanted to buy CPA Global this year for $1.5 billion, Cinven looked beyond banks, the usual source of money. Along with debt from HSBC and JPMorgan Chase, it secured almost $200 million of higher-interest loans from nontraditional lenders. It also had to spend roughly $600 million of its own cash.
"The debt markets have been challenging since 2007," said Matthew Sabben-Clare, a partner at Cinven. "There's a degree of selectivity by the banks over geographies and certain industries. Banks are more regionally focused than before." 
Europe's financial woes are forcing private equity firms like Cinven to revise their deal-making playbooks.
As banks pull back, private equity firms are increasingly turning to high-yield bonds, mezzanine loans and other types of debt that carry higher interest rates. Some are appealing directly to institutional investors like pensions and sovereign wealth funds to finance specific deals.
Given the tight credit, most firms are having to put up more capital to get deals done. Cash now accounts for more than 50 percent of the average European buyout, according to the data provider S.&.P. Capital I.Q. Five years ago, that number was 33 percent. In the United States, cash represents 38 percent of the average buyout, mainly because firms have access to a variety of financing options, like capital markets.
Private equity firms "are having to widen the net to find the loan financing they need," said Kristian Orssten, head of European high-yield and loan capital markets at JPMorgan Chase in London. "Many lenders in Europe are getting to grips with their own funding challenges."
The financing troubles for buyouts are reflected in the weak deal-making environment.
Although firms are raising money to buy distressed assets in Europe, many have remained on the sidelines as the debt crisis continues. So far this year, European acquisitions by private equity firms have totaled $23.2 billion, a 38 percent decline from the same period in 2011, according to Thomson Reuters.
Firms have pulled some deals altogether, fearing that asset prices could fall even further. After months of negotiations, Blackstone and BC Partners dropped their $3.2 billion bid for the frozen-food company Iglo after failing to come to terms with its private equity owner, Permira, according to people with direct knowledge of the matter who declined to speak publicly.
In good times, European buyout firms relied heavily on cheap bank lending. Flush with cash, the Continent's financial institutions provided almost 80 percent of financing on deals, often keeping the debt on their own balance sheets instead of selling it off to other investors.
But as the debt crisis worsened, banks curbed their lending in an effort to meet stricter capital requirements, which penalize firms for holding risky investments like debt connected to private equity deals. Firms like Deutsche Bank and Royal Bank of Scotland have sold loans at a discount to other investors to shed unwanted assets.
Even when banks are willing to finance deals, they are limiting their bets. Local banks are focusing mostly on deals in their home countries, and they are often willing to finance only a portion of the buyouts.
As a result, private equity firms are often tapping multiple lenders, even when the costs of a buyout are less than $1 billion. To finance its £465 million ($749 million) acquisition of the British company Mercury Pharma, Cinven capitalized on its 20-year relationships with certain banks, securing £235 million of financing from a consortium of firms, including Lloyds Banking Group.
With banks being selective, private equity firms have had to tap other markets.
High-yield debt investors, in search of better yields, have been receptive. The European private equity firm Apax issued almost $1 billion of high-yield bonds in February as part of its $2.1 billion acquisition of the telecommunications company Orange Switzerland. Intelsat, one of the world's largest satellite operators, owned by a BC Partners-led group, raised $1.2 billion this year in an effort to refinance its debt.
"The high-yield market in Europe is exploding," said a partner from a leading European private equity firm, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "It's attracting a lot of institutional investors who are chasing high returns." The amount of European high-yield bonds connected to investments from private equity firms has risen 49 percent, to $13.5 billion, since 2007, according to the data provider Dealogic.
Private equity firms are also stepping in to fill the void. The Scandinavian firm EQT Partners turned to a consortium of financial players, including Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, for around $510 million of mezzanine financing for its $2.3 billion acquisition of the German medical supplies company BSN Medical in June.
"As bank funding has become more expensive, it has opened up an opportunity for new types of financing," said Sachin Date, head of private equity for Europe, the Middle East, India and Africa at the accounting firm Ernst & Young in London.
But such debt carries its own set of risks. Generally, loans from nontraditional lenders carry higher interest rates, which can be costly for companies, especially in the current economic conditions. If the financial burden became too high, it could force borrowers to default on their loans and exacerbate the region's woes.
"The crisis has hit much harder than people had expected," said Nicolas de Nazelle, a managing partner at the private equity adviser Triago in Paris.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Matthew Sabben-Clare, a partner in Cinven in London, says banks are showing ''a degree of selectivity'' in loans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IGOR EMMERICH) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (78%); BONDS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (74%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (68%); FROZEN FOODS MFG (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); CINVEN LTD (92%); COMPUTER PATENT ANNUITIES GLOBAL LTD (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (92%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012



202 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Politics; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Operative Long Trailed By Allegations of Voter Fraud

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE SAUL; Derek Willis contributed reporting.

 BODY:
For a year, the Republican National Committee has portrayed Democrats as the villains when it comes to voter fraud.
In a provocative article on CNN's Web site, the committee's chairman, Reince Priebus, said, ''Democrats know they benefit from election fraud.''
The tables have turned, however, and Republicans are now playing defense over the role of a well-paid operative, Nathan Sproul, in a voter registration scandal that emerged in Florida and has spread to other states.
The Florida Department of Law Enforcement said it was reviewing ''numerous'' claims involving a company that Mr. Sproul runs to determine if a criminal investigation is warranted. Complaints have surfaced in 10 Florida counties, among them allegations that registrations had similar signatures or false addresses, or were filed under the names of dead people. In other cases, party affiliations appeared to have been changed.
In recent days, similar claims against Mr. Sproul have arisen in Nevada and Colorado. 
Mr. Sproul, 40, a former executive director of the Arizona Christian Coalition and the Republican Party in Arizona, is well known in political circles there. Since 2004, Mr. Sproul's companies -- he has operated under several corporate names -- have collected more than $17.6 million from Republican committees, candidates and the ''super PAC'' American Crossroads, mostly for voter registration operations, according to campaign finance records.
The Republican Party, which paid Mr. Sproul about $3 million this year for work in five states, has severed its ties with him, saying it has no tolerance for voter registration fraud.
But questions about Mr. Sproul's methods first emerged in 2004, when one of his companies, Sproul & Associates, was paid nearly $8 million during the election cycle. The payouts made the company the seventh-biggest recipient of campaign expenditures by the committee, according to an analysis by the Center for Responsive Politics.
Mr. Sproul declined to be interviewed.
In a statement issued by his lawyer, Mr. Sproul said the huge size of his voter operation -- he claims to have registered more than 500,000 people in more than 40 states through election cycles -- would invariably lead to a few problems. ''Inevitably, there have been accusations of 'bad registrations,' isolated instances that have been thoroughly investigated not only internally but by the appropriate legal authorities,'' the statement said.
Mike Hellon, a former chairman of the Arizona Republican Party, said that Mr. Sproul had been considered ''very controversial'' in Arizona Republican circles before the recent allegations, partly because of past voter registration investigations. ''There are questions among a lot of people in the party about how he gets these contracts and why he gets contracts,'' Mr. Hellon said.
As a political operative in Arizona, Mr. Sproul is known for a no-holds-barred approach. He was criticized for dredging up 28-year-old domestic abuse claims against an incumbent State Senate candidate in 2008.
That same year, he promoted a ballot initiative that would have made it more difficult to impose additional taxes or increase spending in the state. The measure failed, despite considerable financial backing from the liquor industry and from Jim Click, a Tucson car dealer and a large Republican donor who has worked closely with Mr. Sproul on local elections.
On a campaign trip to Arizona last year, Mitt Romney visited one of Mr. Click's auto dealerships. Mr. Click is a co-chairman of Mr. Romney's campaign in Arizona. Mr. Sproul has also worked for the campaign, receiving about $60,000 since last year, according to campaign finance records. A spokesman for the campaign said that Mr. Sproul collected petition signatures during the Republican primary elections and provided office space.
Mr. Click said that while he had worked with Mr. Sproul on campaigns and thought highly of him, he had nothing to do with securing his recent contracts with the Republican National Committee. ''He's always performed for me,'' Mr. Click said. ''He's always been aboveboard.''
Mr. Sproul is one of the biggest players in a for-profit industry that relies on low-paid seasonal workers who must be quickly trained in the legalities of voter registration. In addition to $12 an hour, workers might be eligible for college internship credit, the ad said.
Mr. Sproul has said that his company employs 4,000 workers. ''We have in place a background check system and stringent quality controls meant to prevent individuals from skirting the system,'' said the statement released by his lawyer, David Leibowitz.
Mr. Sproul runs at least five affiliated companies that have conducted registration drives, polling and political consulting. According to a lawsuit filed against him by a former employee over pay, Mr. Sproul changed his company's name in 2008 to Lincoln Strategy Group, from Sproul & Associates, after the negative publicity.
More recently, Mr. Sproul has operated under the name Strategic Allied Consulting.
Susan Bucher, the superintendent of elections in Palm Beach County, Fla., said that about 100 questionable voter registrations had been flagged there. Of those, more than half involved changing a voter's party affiliation to Republican or independent. Ms. Bucher said that the revised registrations gave her ''the feeling that the person completing the application had not come in contact with the voter,'' because they failed to include proper identifying information, like the last four digits of the voter's Social Security number.
The voter registration fraud allegations against Mr. Sproul's companies seem to fit a pattern.
In Nevada, a complaint filed last month with the secretary of state's office alleged that a woman, Cathy Sue Yancey, was told to tear up a form in which she registered as a Democrat and fill out another one without marking her party affiliation.
The complaint was filed by another woman who said she witnessed the event outside an unemployment office in Henderson, Nev., on Sept. 13. That woman, Gina Greisen, said she and a group of friends had been approached by a man who told them that they needed to update their voter registration. ''He talked about voter fraud and mentioned Acorn and illegals voting,'' Ms. Greisen said.
The worker then approached Ms. Yancey. ''He was sure a Republican, because he was totally against Obama,'' said Ms. Yancey, who was reached by phone and verified Ms. Greisen's account. ''I'm a Democrat. I'm certainly voting for Obama.''
The election forms were traced to a Sproul operation. Similar allegations prompted an investigation by the Oregon Department of Justice in 2004.
In that case, a couple told the police in Roseburg that they had been approached by a woman outside a Walmart who asked them to register to vote. The husband, John Gomez, filled out a card registering as a Republican. His wife, Katheline, registered as a Democrat.
About a month later, Mr. Gomez received a ballot in the mail, but his wife did not, the Oregon authorities said. Her registration form seemed to have evaporated. Investigators determined that the woman who solicited the couple had been paid by Sproul & Associates.
The woman told investigators that she was paid only when she registered Republicans or those who said they would vote for President George W. Bush. The Oregon inquiry focused on more than 100 fraud complaints, many pointing to operations run by Mr. Sproul, but did not result in any charges. A lawyer for Mr. Sproul said at the time that the company had a system in place to prevent and detect fraud and forgery.
Additional investigations of Mr. Sproul's organization, including one by the Portland office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, also failed to produce any charges.
Around the same time, officials at a library in Pittsburgh complained that Mr. Sproul's company had used false pretenses -- claiming to represent the nonpartisan America Votes -- to get permission to set up a voter registration desk outside their building. It was only after visitors began to complain that the library learned that the canvassers represented the Republican Party.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The authorities in Florida are reviewing ''numerous'' complaints about voter registration efforts by a company run by Nathan Sproul, shown in 2004. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM HOOD/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); ELECTION FRAUD (91%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); LAWYERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012



203 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Strain for Teachers Runs Deeper Than Budget Cuts

BYLINE: By MORGAN SMITH. 
msmith@texastribune.org

 BODY:
When Liz Peterson, a Teach for America alumna, became an educator 14 years ago, she thought of teaching as a form of social justice. She felt the call to teach because she wanted to help close the achievement gap between poor students and their more affluent peers.
But in August, as the new school year began, Ms. Peterson found herself teaching somewhere she had never imagined she would.
''I never ever, ever considered teaching at a private school,'' Ms. Peterson said. ''That was never a thought in my mind.''
Since the Legislature eliminated more than $5 billion in financing from public education in 2011, some early results are easily quantifiable -- like the approximately 25,000 employees shed from the state's schools and the more than 6,200 additional elementary school classes that have more than 22 students. 
Other potential consequences of the budget cut are not as easily measured. Several organizations -- some with a stated agenda, like the Texas branch of the American Federation of Teachers, and one from the nonpartisan Houston-based education advocacy group Children at Risk -- have conducted studies that investigate the impact of budget-related changes, like the loss of one-on-one time with students and teacher planning periods. Educators have reported a loss of morale and an increase in stress levels in the classroom.
But stories like Ms. Peterson's point to a deeper strain in Texas public schools, one that has more complex origins than 2011's reduction in state financing. If the issues are not addressed, they could further frustrate efforts to attract and keep top teachers in public schools.
Ms. Peterson taught for 10 years in the Houston Independent School District at Johnston Middle School, which serves primarily economically disadvantaged, black and Hispanic students. For much of that time, she said, she considered the district a place that rewarded good teaching and leadership. Then policies changed, she said, and raising students' standardized test scores became a goal that overrode any other aspect of their education.
''What mattered was the test scores of the students in the classroom, not the impact that people were having on students as a teacher,'' she said. ''Frankly, that's super demoralizing, spending all this extra time doing what you know is best for the kids, and no one cares.''
When it came to the point that Ms. Peterson felt like not only was she dealing with a miserable work environment but also was being asked to teach in ways that did not address students' needs, she said, she accepted a position at a private school in Houston.
''I had other options and I took them,'' she said.
Gary Dworkin, a University of Houston professor, has studied teacher morale in Houston metropolitan area districts since the 1980s. He measures burnout -- which he defines as a feeling of isolation that produces a sense among educators that their work does not matter -- as well as the level of trust teachers have in colleagues, administrators, students and parents. (The University of Houston is a corporate sponsor of The Texas Tribune.)
Professor Dworkin said the factor that has had the biggest impact on teacher burnout over the years has been efforts to raise teacher quality and educational standards through the accountability system, whether it be changes initiated at the state or the federal level.
For example, in 2002, the first year of the No Child Left Behind Act's application, burnout levels among teachers spiked, he said. But by 2004, they drifted down because although No Child Left Behind was in place, it was not affecting teachers' jobs in a large way because many of its measures, like forced school closures, were not happening on a large scale.
Now, Texas is in the midst of such a change. In addition to the budget cuts, the 2011 school year was also the start of the state's transition to a new accountability system based on more rigorous student assessments that for the first time will be linked to graduation requirements and students' final grades.
Many educators welcome the higher standards and the standardized tests that are more closely aligned to the state curriculum, but the new system's rollout has been marked by widespread confusion among school districts about how to apply some of the new rules, and there have been unforeseen complications with a new requirement that students who fail the exam must retake it. That, along with the financing cut, is the subject of a lawsuit against the state that will go to trial in late October.
Professor Dworkin last collected data in March. He found that teachers in 2012 were almost twice as stressed as those in 2002. Teachers' level of trust in colleagues, parents and students has dropped from years past, he said, and for the first time their number of years teaching or their level of trust in their principals, usually factors that would cushion against feelings of stress, had no effect.
''It's a homogeneous level of anxiety,'' he said, ''and especially now schools are saying it's going to get worse.''
A lack of planning for the new system has placed unnecessary stress on teachers, said Eastman Landry, who teaches high school physics at H.I.S.D's fine arts magnet.
He said external pressures like district and state mandates about student assessments frustrated teachers when they interfered with their ability to instruct students. But Mr. Landry, a graduate of Rice University who has been teaching for four years, said he did not sense that most of his colleagues were ready to give up on the profession just yet.
''The tone at the end of the conversation isn't 'I can't wait to get out of here,' it's almost like this accepted feeling of being overwhelmed, and not being in control of what we want to accomplish,'' he said. ''Then again, we aren't dealing with products, we are dealing with students -- and there are going to be challenges.''
He said the state budget cuts had resulted in staff reductions at his school and heightened pressure to do more with less. But he added that simply putting more money into public schools was not the answer. More focused, effective planning in things like the institution of the accountability system was more important, he said.
Like Mr. Landry, Ms. Peterson described a nerve-racking spring as her colleagues waited to learn the extent of the state budget cuts. She said she did not view them as the root of issues that had prompted her to leave public schools. That happened because she wanted to work with ''better adults and better leaders,'' she said.
At the private school where she now teaches, she said, teachers are treated like professionals.
''The number of unreasonable schedule changes or administrative tasks, or paperwork is nonexistent,'' she said. ''The majority of my job is teaching and providing leadership opportunities for students, and that's really great.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eastman Landry teaches a physics class at the High School for the Performing and Visual Arts in Houston. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC KAYNE FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); CHILDREN (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (67%); COMPANY LOSSES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012



204 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
7:30 P.M. (Showtime) I DON'T KNOW HOW SHE DOES IT (2011) Sarah Jessica Parker portrays Kate Reddy, a hotshot manager for a Boston investment company and multitasker par excellence who suddenly finds herself unable to have it all. Greg Kinnear (above, with Ms. Parker) is her long-suffering husband, Richard, a struggling architect, who is left to care for their two young children as Kate flits back and forth between Boston and New York while her star ascends. And Pierce Brosnan is Jack Abelhammer, a financial kingpin who falls in love with Kate and her every quirk. ''Carrie Bradshaw flirted her way into mass consciousness in the late '90s, when Ms. Parker was in her early 30s, and well before Sept. 11, two wars and a major recession dampened American exuberance,'' Stephen Holden wrote in The New York Times about this adaptation of Alison Pearson's novel, by the director Douglas McGrath. ''If Kate's hyperkinetic cheer and shrill self-absorption are Carrie trademarks, 13 years after 'Sex and the City' first appeared on television, their appeal has all but evaporated. 
'I Don't Know How She Does It' seems stuck in the past. Except for one acid remark about bankers, the screenplay seems to imagine that the boom years are still upon us.''
6 A.M. (Flix) THE ROMANTIC ENGLISHWOMAN (1975) Michael Caine and Glenda Jackson play Lewis and Elizabeth Fielding, a successful British writer and his bored wife who become obsessed with each other's infidelities, imagined and otherwise. Helmut Berger is Thomas, the gigolo and professed poet Lewis invites to live with them while he composes a screenplay about an unhappily married woman who runs off to the Continent to find herself. The director, Joseph Losey, and the screenwriters, Tom Stoppard and Thomas Wiseman, have ''attempted to make an intelligent film about intelligent people, and as long as Mr. Berger is kept off the screen, it is,'' Vincent Canby wrote in The Times. ''Mr. Caine and Miss Jackson are interesting performers.'' But Mr. Berger, he added, is ''a missing element, and the movie, unequally balanced, goes off into a wobbly, out-of-control orbit as a result.''
12:30 P.M. (Sundance) PARIS (2008) Romain Duris plays Pierre, a dancer at the Moulin Rouge who is awaiting a heart transplant that could save his life. Juliette Binoche (below, with Mr. Duris) is Élise, his older, divorced sister, a social worker who moves into his apartment with her three children to care for him -- and in the process opens his eyes to the city's possibilities. A subplot follows the romantic misadventures of a history professor (Fabrice Luchini) who becomes so besotted with a beautiful student (Mélanie Laurent) that he sends her anonymous text messages, some in cyberspeak -- ''U R awesome. I'm 2 hot 4 U.'' -- and others quoting the love poetry of Baudelaire. ''In 'Paris,' Cédric Klapisch's sumptuous Gallic comedy, the camera, whether surveying the landmarks from on high or peering out of an apartment window at the passing parade, becomes a surrogate for a first-time visitor to the City of Light,'' Stephen Holden wrote in The Times. ''Both a Parisian answer to Woody Allen's 'Manhattan' and a multicharacter mosaic in the mode of Robert Altman's 'Short Cuts,' the movie sprawls invitingly across the screen like a glowing Impressionist painting.''
10 P.M. (HBO) REAL TIME WITH BILL MAHER Will Cain, an analyst for TheBlaze; former Representative Mark Foley, Republican of Florida; and the actress Kerry Washington (of ABC's ''Scandal'') are seated at the round table. The Republican political consultant Frank Luntz and the author and environmentalist Bill McKibben are interview guests.
10 P.M. (13) LIVE FROM THE ARTISTS DEN Norah Jones, left, performs works including her breakout hit, ''Don't Know Why,'' and ''Happy Pills,'' her latest single from her fifth album, ''Little Broken Hearts,'' at the Green Building in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn.
11 P.M. (TV5Monde) AU PLUS PRÈS DU PARADIS (2002) On the surface the art historian Fanette (Catherine Deneuve) is nothing if not cool -- toward old friends, her colleagues and even her daughter. But secretly, as she watches ''An Affair to Remember,'' she is consumed by passion for a lost love, Philippe. And then she receives a letter, asking her to meet him atop the Empire State Building. So she heads to New York, ostensibly for research on a book she's writing about a painter, and is assigned a photographer, Matt (William Hurt), by her publisher. He doesn't hesitate to let Fanette know how attracted he is to her. Tonie Marshall directed this French film, released as ''Nearest to Heaven'' in the United States. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG BLANKENHORN/WEINSTEIN COMPANY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); CHILDREN (76%); HISTORY (73%); FILM DIRECTORS (72%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); FILM (67%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (67%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (64%); DANCERS (60%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (50%)

PERSON: SARAH JESSICA PARKER (90%); JULIETTE BINOCHE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); PARIS, FRANCE (51%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012



205 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; EXHIBITION REVIEW; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: Over There, And Here As Well

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

 BODY:
Ever wonder why was it was called the Manhattan Project? Because that is where the top-secret initiative began before it migrated to Los Alamos, N.M., and concluded in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. It could even have been called the Morningside Heights Project, since it was propelled by a pioneering cyclotron at Columbia University. We see a portion of that tubular antique in a show at the New-York Historical Society, just past a vintage Philco radio that once delivered broadcasts like the one we hear of Edward R. Murrow reporting on the Blitz.
This illuminating new exhibition, ''WWII & NYC,'' even makes it seem plausible that the waging of the entire war was a kind of Manhattan Project, at least in part. We make our way through some 300 objects, ranging from prewar protest pamphlets to postwar artworks, and see, again and again, just how central New York was to the war effort and how powerfully the conflict affected the city's evolution. New York wasn't generally on the front lines -- though German U-boats sank tankers in local waters -- but with its port, manufacturing, ship building and strategic military centers, it made the front lines possible. 
This might seem unremarkable, but in this exhibition the society has again taken on a subject that we might overlook, examining it closely through a distinctive lens and transforming our perceptions. The show's curator, Marci Reaven, the society's vice president for history exhibitions, has, with few exceptions, cultivated complications and complexities, with an eye for telling details.
New York, from the first, was not united about the war or what should be done about it. We see local traces of pacifism, radicalism, fascism and isolationism -- the city could have been a staging ground for the war itself. From 1941, there is an anti-isolationist cartoon by Theodor Seuss Geisel, who became the postwar baby-boomer fantasist Dr. Seuss. There is also a Teutonic poster promoting a German American Bund celebration of Nazi youth culture in 1939 Brooklyn, along with a photograph of festivities at Camp Siegfried on Long Island, where the ''Horst Wessel Song'' was sung, and rustic paths were named after Hitler and Goering. (Later we learn that the prewar American salute during the Pledge of Allegiance so resembled the Nazi gesture that the hand on the heart became a permanent replacement.)
There are also wartime products here from regional factories that reinvented themselves. We see an M1 carbine, one of the Army's standard firearms, assembled like hundreds of thousands of others in plants run by I.B.M. The bra manufacturer Maidenform, we learn, had to lobby for its products to be recognized as wartime essentials for the female work force, but it hedged its bets with a ''pigeon vest,'' shown here and used to cradle homing pigeons behind enemy lines. It ''resembles a bra in construction,'' the exhibition tells us, ''with snug but comfortable mesh to allow the bird to breathe.''
The first penicillin factory in the world, we learn, was opened by Charles Pfizer & Company in Brooklyn in 1943, making 90 percent of the drug carried by Allied forces on D-Day. (Rare samples are on display.) Steinway & Sons in Queens switched from making pianos to fashioning glider wings (presumably because, like piano rims, they required layers of hard wood shaped into set curves).
We also learn that the two ground-floor galleries of the historical society were turned over to the American Red Cross, which produced four million surgical sponges here by December 1944. And the Arms and Armor Department of the Metropolitan Museum of Art designed the helmets and body armor for American soldiers and bomber crews, based on historical models.
But it isn't just that New York factories and museums were altered. The war had an immense physical presence here. Some 900,000 New Yorkers served in the military; by 1945 about 3.3 million American servicemen had shipped out through ''the country's principal war port.''
One mural shows us silhouettes of tankers, troopships and tugboats in the nocturnal New York Harbor: a convoy of ships, grouped for protection against attack, making its way with troops and supplies across the Atlantic. Between 1942 and 1944, more than one convoy a day left the harbor. In 1943 alone, 488 convoys were dispatched -- 7,039 ships. By 1944, New York's port was handling 50 percent more ship traffic than all other United States ports combined.
A deliberately old-fashioned illuminated display shows us a map of the region, with lights marking military and strategic centers. The Army's Eastern Defense Command was on Governors Island, responsible for guarding the American coast. On Staten Island an anti-submarine net was laid to protect the harbor, a net constructed, we are informed, by the John A. Roebling's Sons Company ''of Brooklyn Bridge fame.''
The Office of Strategic Services -- the forerunner of the C.I.A. -- was housed in Rockefeller Center. And the Brooklyn Army Terminal -- still an astounding sight on the coastline -- was the largest warehouse of its time, unloading and storing freight, and housing the Port of Embarkation command headquarters that coordinated the international movements of American soldiers. (Among the fine videos here is a too-brief tour of World War II harbor sites with the historian Kenneth T. Jackson, a consultant for the exhibition.)
And as one set of displays shows us, the Bronx campus of Hunter College (which is now Lehman College), along with neighboring apartment buildings, was taken over for the training of Women Accepted for Volunteer Emergency Service. The Navy called them Waves, and they became a formal branch of the military.
In Queens, the current site of the Museum of the Moving Image became another kind of training ground for soldiers wielding cameras, who were assigned to document the war. One cameraman, Francis Lee, stitched together his footage in 1976, creating a 22-minute survey of his experiences shown here; the more familiar D-Day imagery is almost eclipsed by accounts of his visits to Picasso after the liberation of Paris.
The show's final portions are disappointing, particularly the capsule biographies of soldiers: ''New Yorkers Who Served.'' They were so clearly chosen to represent diverse identities that they could form a modern counterpart to the studiously multiethnic fighting unit familiar from 1950s war novels and films.
But this self-consciousness about diversity also reflects one of the show's themes. As seen here, the war's impact on the city is not primarily industrial, intellectual, political or economic, but social. During the war, there was a ''Double V'' campaign by black American leaders, suggesting that victory over fascism abroad should be accompanied by victory over racism at home. Defense factories had been refusing to hire black workers, even after President Franklin D. Roosevelt, in 1941, issued an Executive Order forbidding discrimination. One video includes a chilling story of a Brooklyn Navy Yard supervisor who ordered his workers' badges to be labeled W for White or C for Colored. The exhibition argues convincingly that protests against such injustices, particularly in the context of a war fought in the name of freedom, led to the postwar civil rights movement.
This is also the subject of a small complementary show, ''The War for Civil Rights,'' in the hall outside the main exhibition. We learn of the policies of ''blood segregation'' adopted by the Red Cross and the military during the war, and of the futile protests that greeted them. But another example ends in success as Stuyvesant Town -- meant to reflect a postwar ideal of subsidized urban planning -- is forced to allow integrated housing.
The recognition of the war's role in this transformation is important, but as executed here, the proportions are strange. World War II was, as the show notes, ''the most destructive war in history,'' with an estimated 60 million dead. But instead of pulling back to see it whole, or to say something about the city the war transformed, other considerations are put aside to make these social points.
Social issues, though, are only part of the history. Even the account of prewar New York might have benefited from a larger vision that at least took into account elements like the Communist Party's Popular Front, with its supposedly unambiguous anti-fascist stance, or the Hitler-Stalin Pact. (Could this have been the impetus behind one of the antiwar ''Medals of Dishonor'' displayed here from 1939, by the sculptor David Smith, which sweepingly attacks all munitions makers?) The influential group New York Intellectuals evolved out of those prewar and postwar debates. And such considerations might have led the show in entirely different directions, perhaps to a different exhibition entirely: another look at the Manhattan Project.
''WWII & NYC'' runs through May 27 at the New-York Historical Society, Central Park West and 77th Street; (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WWII & NYC: The exhibition, featuring recruiting posters, above, and other materials, is at the New-York Historical Society. (C25)
Above, a parade program from 1942. Left, a visitor using an audio component of the exhibition. She is standing in front of a mural showing silhouettes of troopships and other vessels in New York Harbor at night. More photos of the exhibition are at nytimes.com/design.
Lookout binoculars and a reproduction of a Daily News front page are among some 300 objects on view.
A section of a cyclotron from Columbia University that was used in experiments during the Manhattan Project.
 A display highlights a variety of the political views held by New Yorkers before and during World War II. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); HISTORY (76%); ARMIES (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); MILITARY BASES (71%); MILITARY VESSELS (71%); LINGERIE MFG (71%); SHIPBUILDING (66%); BABY BOOMERS (61%); WOMEN WORKERS (60%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012



206 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 6298 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. A searchable guide to these and many other art shows is at nytimes.com/events.
Museums
Asia Society and Museum: 'Bound Unbound: Lin Tianmiao' (through Jan. 27) Lin Tianmiao is one of a rare kind in China, where she lives: a nationally and internationally renowned female artist. This museumwide show presents installations that have not been widely seen. Influenced by American artists like Kiki Smith, Louise Bourgeois and Ann Hamilton -- who made the female body and traditional women's occupations hot topics during the 1990s when Ms. Lin was living in New York -- these productions are not particularly original. But they are striking for their surrealistic theatricality and labor intensive craft. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 517-2742, asiasociety.org. (Ken Johnson) 
Brooklyn Museum: 'Jean-Michel Othoniel: My Way' (through Dec. 2) Some of the art in this whimsical but cloying midcareer survey can strike you as the sculptural equivalent of haute couture. A bed framed by Murano glass beads is accompanied by veils of tulle, each one hand embroidered with gold thread in a workshop established by Louis XIV. Elsewhere, 4,200 yellow blown-glass bricks, shaped by artisans from Firozabad, India, form a shimmering rectangular solid. Early works in wax, sulfur and obsidian are more personal and provocative, showing the influence of mentors and peers like Felix Gonzalez-Torres, Robert Gober, Sophie Calle and Annette Messager. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Mickalene Thomas: Origin of the Universe' (through Jan. 20) This invigorating exhibition is dominated by big, brash collagelike paintings, thick with color and studded with rhinestones that depict cacophonous landscapes, spatially skewed interiors and, best of all, images of imperious black women among swaths of brightly patterned fabrics. Building on Conceptual identity art, borrowing from art history and 1970s blaxploitation extravagance, they subvert prevailing notions of beauty and taste and subvert the male gaze while offering resounding proof that the political, not only the personal, can also be stunningly pictorial. Bravo. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)
&#x2605; International Center of Photography: 'Rise and Fall of Apartheid: Photography and Bureaucracy of Everyday Life' (through Jan. 6) With more than 500 photographs -- supplemented by books, magazines, posters and films -- spread over two floors, this show documenting institutionalized racism in South Africa from 1948 to the election of Nelson Mandela in 1994 can't help but be overwhelming. But it's pitched as much to the mind, as to the heart. On the one hand, it's a grand narrative of stirring sights: ardent faces, agitated bodies, camaraderie, clenched fists, funerals. It's also a disquisition on the ordinariness of goodness and evil, on how people in a particular time and place encounter and partake of both, and go on with their lives. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Holland Cotter)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Regarding Warhol: Sixty Artists, Fifty Years' (through Dec. 31) The Met's latest foray into recent art will undoubtedly be a crowd-pleaser, not the least for the mini-Warhol retrospective of 50 works that forms its spine. But with 100 often significant works by 59 other relentlessly predictable artists -- including Gerhard Richter, Cindy Sherman and Jeff Koons -- it is largely a shapeless, enthusiastic muddle. A dismaying return to the great-man, über-artist approach to art history, it does little to diminish the perception that where new art is concerned, the Met has a very long way to go. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Tomás Saraceno on the Roof: Cloud City' (through Nov. 4) This climbable 28-foot-high aggregate of 16 interconnected polyhedrons made of reflective steel and clear plexiglass creates a kind of Piranesian, walk-in Cubism that is briefly disorienting, but ultimately decorative. The none-too-high standards of participatory fun-house formalism are met; those of conventional plop art are barely exceeded. In the fusion of architecture, art and science, art is the loser, but the views of Central Park's ocean of greenness thrill, providing an immense and calming relief to the work's forced and busy artifice. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Chinese Gardens: Pavilions, Studios, Retreats' (through Jan. 6) To anyone strolling through the Chinese painting galleries at the Met this summer, the whole world will look like a garden of infinite expansion. That's the impression given by the 80 paintings and objects that make up this fragrant exhibition, drawn entirely from the museum's deep holdings, about paradises lost and found; about nature blooming and fading; about cosmological events transpiring in backyard bamboo groves. Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Morgan Library & Museum: 'Josef Albers in America: Painting on Paper' (through Oct. 14) Yoga was probably far from Josef Albers's mind when he was working on the series of color-saturated paintings he called ''Homage to the Square.'' But deep meditation, in the form of hard work, was built into the project, which went on for a quarter of a century. And the bliss of hard work is the subject of this beautiful show about an artist's hands-on research and learning-as-you go experimentation. Morgan Library & Museum, 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, Ext. 560, themorgan.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Museum of Arts and Design: 'Doris Duke's Shangri-La: Architecture, Landscape and Islamic Art' (through Feb. 17) The Honolulu estate known as Shangri La is a masterpiece of refined eclecticism. Doris Duke, the owner, referred to it as a ''Spanish-Moorish-Persian-Indian complex.'' Whatever you call it, it looks magnificent in this show and the accompanying book. Both combine sparkling new color shots of the home and gardens taken by Tim Street-Porter; architectural documents and vintage photographs; pieces of the collection; and projects by contemporary artists who had residencies at Shangri La (which has served, since Duke's death in 1993, as the Doris Duke Foundation for Islamic Art). 2 Columbus Circle, Manhattan, (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Born Out of Necessity' (through Jan. 28) The title may or may not have an extra preposition, but the show itself is a fascinating array of recent acquisitions that have a fairly direct bearing on quality of life or actual survival. They range from classic (the 1908 Dixie cup) to cutting edge; cover both analog and digital; and include the tiny (the latest in earplugs) and the quite large (the 1952 United States Army Jeep). Whether born ''of'' or ''out of'' necessity, the displays attest to human ingenuity responding to human need. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Quay Brothers: On Deciphering the Pharmacist's Prescription for Lip-Reading Puppets' (through Jan. 7) The first major museum retrospective devoted to the strange puppet-haunted universe unleashed in the Quay Brothers' stop-action film animations includes their magical miniature stage sets, a sizable sampling of drawings, prints, collages and early illustration designs as well as works by artists who influenced them. More than 30 years of animated and live-action shorts, television commercials, music videos and imaginative documentaries in particular allow devotees and neophytes alike to grasp the essence of Timothy and Stephen Quay's achievement and its evolution, strengths and weaknesses all. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Century of the Child: Growing by Design, 1900 -- 2000' (through Nov. 5) This big, wonderful show at the Museum of Modern Art examines the intersection of modern design and modern thinking about children. A richly thought-provoking study of a great subject, it is loaded with intriguing things to look at -- some 500 items, including furniture, toys, games, posters, books and much more. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Performing Histories (1)' (through March 11) An awareness of the uprisings, protests, occupations and revolutions erupting around the globe is present in ''Performing Histories (1),'' a show of video, film and photographic work recently acquired by MoMA. Insurrection and resistance pervade the Romanian artist Ion Grigorescu's film ''Dialogue With Ceausescu'' (1978), while the feminist personal as political is employed in Martha Rosler's ''She Sees in Herself a New Woman Every Day'' (1976) and Sharon Hayes's four-channel video ''The Interpreter Project'' (2001). Andrea Fraser's two videos connect politics and the museum. In one she describes how scientific philanthropy in the 19th century directed wealth to museums and other public institutions rather than the poor, while another video delves into how MoMA itself interacted with revolutionaries and communists, like the Mexican muralist Diego Rivera. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Martha Schwendener)
Museum of the City of New York: 'London Street Photography' (through Dec. 2) Arriving from the Museum of London, which presented it in 2010 and owns the more than 150 works on view, this exhibition affords those of us watching the Olympics on TV a glimpse of an older, more eccentric city. It covers the Victorian era to the present, and is particularly rich in images from the mid-20th century. A smaller companion exhibition, ''City Scenes: Highlights of New York Street Photography,'' provides an opportunity to compare and contrast two very different modern cities as they grappled with war, the postindustrial era and various forms of social tension. Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Neue Galerie: 'Ferdinand Hodler: View to Infinity' (through Jan. 7) Near the end of this exhibition you come to a small, chapel-like room containing a painting from 1915 of Ferdinand Hodler's longtime model and lover Valentine Godé-Darel on her deathbed; three small, vibrantly colored landscapes; and a self-portrait. Thus ring the basic themes that unfold in this extraordinarily touching show of late works by the Swiss Symbolist: Self, Other, Love, Death and World. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Rubin Museum of Art: 'Candid: The Lens and Life of Homai Vyarawalla' (through Jan. 14) The Indian photojournalist Homai Vyarawalla (1913-2012) was on the spot time and again to record the history of modern South Asia being made. This small, evocative, event-filled retrospective catches highlights of her career, including her coverage of Mohandas Gandhi's funeral; important events in the career of the charismatic Jawaharlal Nehru; and visits from Nikita Khrushchev, Ho Chi Minh and Jacqueline Kennedy. As one of the few female photographers in the Indian press corps in her day, Ms. Vyarawalla was a pioneer; in 1970 she abruptly put down her camera and disappeared until her recent rediscovery by younger peers. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Cotter)
Rubin Museum of Art: 'Modernist Art From India: Approaching Abstraction' (through Oct. 16) This show, the second in a series of three more or less consecutive exhibitions on Indian modernism of the postcolonial period, finds Indian painters gradually and selectively moving away from the figure -- both on canvas and, sometimes, in experiments with film. ''Abstraction,'' here, isn't always formal; it can mean breaking with narrative, as in Tyeb Mehta's film ''Koodal,'' which combines images of cows headed for slaughter, crowds massing at Gandhi's funeral, and the gyrations of a self-flagellating dancer. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; South Street Seaport Museum: 'Compass: Folk Art in Four Directions' (through Jan. 3) The American Folk Art Museum presents some 200 works from its unparalleled collection in this beautifully orchestrated exhibition. Paintings, sculpture, textiles, scrimshaw, painted furniture and much, much more are arrayed along themes that reflect the history of Lower Manhattan -- seafaring, commerce, social life and that all-important factor, the weather -- but not too tightly. Poetic license is taken, yielding an intricate constellation of connected artworks, histories and concerns that highlights one of the city's great treasures. 12 Fulton Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 748-8600, southstreetseaportmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Studio Museum in Harlem: 'Caribbean: Crossroads of the World' (through Oct. 21) In size, cultural scope and freshness of material, the three-museum exhibition ''Caribbean: Crossroads of the World'' is the big art event of the summer season in New York City, itself one of the largest Caribbean cities in the world. Be warned: the thematically arranged show throws you into history at the deep end. Almost all the information is strictly visual; there are very few explanatory labels anywhere. But the visuals are so rich, and interact so provocatively, that you may well be inspired to go out and do some homework and come back for a second look. 144 West 125th Street, Harlem, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. Also on display: through Jan. 6 at El Museo del Barrio, 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org; and through Jan. 6 at Queens Museum of Art, New York City Building, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens, (718) 592-9700, queensmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Studio Museum in Harlem: 'Primary Sources: Artists in Residence 2011-2012' (through Oct. 21) The accent is on Africa in the Studio Museum's latest artist-in-residence showcase. Two of the three participants were born there -- Njideka Akunyili in Nigeria in 1983, Meleko Mokgosi in Botswana in 1981 -- and their experience of it is a wellspring for very different and accomplished kinds of painting. The show's third artist, Xaviera Simmons, born in New York City in 1974, plays audacious photographic games with the African in African-American, and proves herself once again, as she has in the past, a thinker's artist. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Fireflies on the Water' (through Oct. 28) This museum's retrospective of the Japanese artist Yayoi Kusama has closed but visitors can still view this 2002 installation, which depicts a seemingly endless space. It's a carefully constructed environment of lights, mirrors and water in which viewers can transcend their very sense of self. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Oskar Fischinger: Space Light Art -- A Film Environment' (through Oct. 28) Projected on three adjoining screens, ''Light Space Art'' floods your retinas with intensely colorful, pulsating circles, flowing lines and blinking rectangles. A found film clip shows a spinning globe and the momentary, cartoon apparition of a young girl in a hooded, fur-trimmed coat. Oskar Fischinger created the original film footage in Weimar-era Germany. Newly restored and digitized, it still generates an exhilarating phantasmagoria of abstraction and metaphor. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Johnson)
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Signs & Symbols' (through Oct. 28) In the 1950s, Americans were running out of ways to keep their works new and responsive to a world shaken to the core by World War II. For some the solution was passive-aggressive withdrawal into archaic myth, oracular symbolism and private language. Sampling this trend with works from the Whitney's permanent collection, this show presents lugubriously portentous paintings by hall of famers like Rothko and Pollock and by many journeyman players like Mark Tobey and Forrest Bess. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Johnson)
Galleries: Uptown
&#x2605; 'Echoes of the Past: The Buddhist Cave Temples of Xiangtangshan' (through Jan. 6) In the Buddhist way of thinking, all things must pass, though that seems a shame if they're as out-of-this-world beautiful as Chinese Buddhist art is. But could that vision of transience be changing in the 21st century, as still-crude technology lets images live on out there in digital clouds? Regret and hope alike run through this multifaceted show that presents a dozen gorgeous sixth-century sculptures and a digital simulation of the cave temple in China from which some of them were long ago removed. Institute for the Study of the Ancient World, 15 East 84th Street, Manhattan, (212) 992-7800, isaw.nyu.edu. (Cotter)
Galleries: 57th Street
Gerhard Richter: 'Painting 2012' (through Oct. 13) Gerhard Richter's newest works, titled ''Strip Paintings,'' pursue Conceptual painting (a category Richter practically invented) to logical but deeply unsatisfying ends. Each consists of narrow, horizontal striations, all derived from a single painting (''Abstract Painting 724-4,'' 1990) in a viral process of subdivision, mirroring, recombination and repetition. The final works are unique digital prints that, despite their painterly lineage, are beholden to digital space. Marian Goodman Gallery, 24 West 57th Street, Manhattan, (212) 977-7160, mariangoodman.com. (Rosenberg)
Galleries: Chelsea
Jonah Freeman and Justin Lowe: 'Stray Light Grey' (through Oct. 27) Your journey through this immersive installation begins in a janitor's closet. From there you pass through a grungy bathroom, an abandoned Off Track Betting parlor, a plastic surgeon's office and a store stocked with nutritional supplements like ''DNA Recalibrator.'' Finally you emerge into a library displaying fake books with titles like ''The Decorated Slave State'' and ''Fun With Your Interneurons.'' You may wish you could see the unmade movie for which all this would make an excellent set. Marlborough Chelsea, 545 West 25th Street, (212) 463-8634, marlboroughchelsea.com. (Johnson)
&#x2605; 'Distance and Desire': 'Encounters with the African Archive, Part I: Santu Mofokeng and A.M. Duggan-Cronin' (through Nov. 17) Born in Ireland in 1874, Alfred Martin Duggan-Cronin photographed in South Africa until his death in 1954, creating a multivolume book -- a record of indigenous peoples and of ways of life that he feared were disappearing. In 1997, Santu Mofokeng, born in Johannesburg in 1956, completed a book-length compilation of urban African studio portraits dating to the colonial era. The Duggan-Cronin photographs, seen in mounted pages from his books in this show, perpetuate an old view of Africans as being, by definition, rural, tradition-bound, on the verge of extinction. The studio portraits gathered in Mr. Mofokeng's archive present Africans as they chose to see themselves, as global citizens with modern histories. The Walther Collection, 526 West 26th Street, Suite 718, (212) 352-0683, walthercollection.com. (Cotter)
Gelitin: 'The Fall Show' (through Nov. 13) In a sardonic jibe at our money-crazed times and the preciousness of the art object, the congenitally disruptive Austrian collective exhibits 17 assemblage sculptures on rigged pedestals that send the works crashing to the floor with the press of a lever. Whether participating viewers are completing or destroying the art is an interesting question, but the resulting mayhem is definitely disconcerting. Greene Naftali, 508 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 463-7770, greenenaftaligallery.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Ralph Humphrey (through Oct. 20) With rich, soft colors, abrasive, stucco-like surfaces and boxy, built-out forms, the painter Ralph Humphrey (1932-1990) put his own idiosyncratic spin on longstanding formalist concerns. He pit the retinal against the physical and pushed the modernist monochrome toward representation with results at once comic and subtly elegiac. This survey of works form the 1970s and '80s should encourage a museum show. Gary Snyder Gallery, 529 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 929-1351, garysnyderart.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Jesper Just: 'This Nameless Spectacle' (through Oct. 27) Grand mal, la petit mort or divine revelation? The question lingers in the wake of Mr. Just's astounding, 13-minute video ''This Nameless Spectacle.'' On opposite walls, two extremely wide-screen projections follow the peregrinations of a woman rolling herself along in a wheelchair in Paris followed by a young man who might be a stalker and might be an incarnation of the demigod Eros. The climax resembles a scene from David Lynch's ''Inland Empire.'' James Cohan, 533 West 26th Street, (212) 714-9500, jamescohan.com. (Johnson)
&#x2605; 'Kindergarten' (through Oct. 20) This edifying show, which complements the early galleries of the Museum of Modern Art's ''Century of the Child'' exhibition, explores the playful exercises in abstraction that used to be de rigeur for children younger than 7. Devised by the 19th-century German educator Friedrich Froebel, these early explorations of color, shape and pattern -- called Froebel Gifts -- influenced many a grown-up modernist. Paul Klee, Le Corbusier and Josef Albers were all kindergarteners. Ricco Maresca Gallery, 29 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 627-4819, riccomaresca.com. (Rosenberg)
Galleries: Other
&#x2605; Tony Conrad: 'Doing the City: Urban Community Interventions' (through Nov. 3) Tony Conrad has slowly been emerging from avant-gardist obscurity, and it's about time. His multifold career -- as experimental film and video maker, composer, musician and sound artist -- still looks radical and prescient a half-century after it began. This show includes haunting 1969 sound pieces, and films and videos made in the past and finished in the present. 80WSE Gallery, New York University, 80 Washington Square East, (212) 998-5747, steinhardt.nyu.edu/80wse. (Cotter)
'Monet's Garden' (through Oct. 21) From 1883 to the end of his life in 1926, Claude Monet presided over his estate in Giverny, working at flower gardening with as much industry and creativity as he did on his paintings. The main attraction here is a living abbreviated approximation of the two major gardens that he designed and planted: one in traditional, orderly French style, the other a Japanese-inspired fantasia of water, blooming water lilies and weeping willows. It is far from the real thing, but there are moments of astounding beauty. New York Botanical Garden, Bronx River Parkway (Exit 7W) and Fordham Road, the Bronx, (718) 817-8700, nybg.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; 'Ruptures: Forms of Public Address' (through Oct. 13) With presidential elections nearing, and Occupy Wall Street struggling to maintain its punch, a fresh surge of political consciousness-raising has to be a good idea. That's the premise behind this group show of socially alert art that's less an attack on specific issues than a call to interruptive action as a political end in itself. 41 Cooper Gallery, Third Avenue, between Sixth and Seventh Streets, (212) 353-4100, cooper.edu. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Simon Dinnerstein: 'The Fulbright Triptych' (ongoing) This little-known masterpiece of 1970s realism was begun by the young Simon Dinnerstein during a Fulbright fellowship in Germany in 1971 and completed in his hometown, Brooklyn, three years later. Incorporating carefully rendered art postcards, children's drawings and personal memorabilia; a formidable worktable laid out with printmaking tools and outdoor views; and the artist and his family, it synthesizes portrait, still life, interior and landscape and rummages through visual culture while sampling a dazzling range of textures and representational styles. It should be seen by anyone interested in the history of recent art and its oversights. German Consulate General, 871 United Nations Plaza, First Avenue, at 49th Street, (212) 610-9700, germany.info. (Smith)
&#x2605; Penny Slinger: 'An Exorcism Revisited' (through Nov. 30) Born in England, Penny Slinger emerged from art school in 1969, a time when lots of liberations were under way, including the nascent women's movement. The earliest works in her first New York solo are six short films from that year. They're student pieces, but pretty out there for the time. The main piece is her still unpublished book of photo-collages and texts called ''An Exorcism.'' A blend of ''Rebecca'' and ''Story of O,'' it's yet another reminder of the adventure that feminist art in the 1960s and '70s was. Broadway 1602, 1181 Broadway, Third Floor, (212) 481-0362, broadway1602.com. (Cotter)
Toxic Beauty: 'The Art of Frank Moore' (through Dec. 8) This lavishly detailed retrospective pays tribute to a multifaceted career in painting, set design, film and political activism that was cut short by AIDS in 2002, when the artist was 48. In a time -- the 1980s and '90s -- when some artists re-embraced representational painting and others tackled thorny political topics, Moore did both, and with unusual flair, reviving and revising a panoply of outré realist styles in luminous allegorical canvases that comment on, and link, environmental degradation and the tragedy of AIDS. Grey Art Gallery, 100 Washington Square East, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart; and the Tracey/Barry Gallery at Fales Library in Bobst Library, 70 Washington Square South, (212) 998-2596, nyu.edu/library/bobst/research/fales. (Smith)
Andra Ursuta: 'Magical Terrorism' (through Oct. 21) This Romanian-born New York artist's second solo show is another rambunctious, haunted affair, this one framed in two acts of possible terrorism: the gallery's shattered front windows and its crumpled back wall, seemingly rammed by an ancient cart opulently encrusted in silver foam. In between marble figures and -- especially striking -- several cast metal African-esque torsos are decked out in elaborate coin chokers; this grouping conjures conflicting systems of belief, economics and display, as well as a world whose center is not holding. Ramiken Crucible, 389 Grand Street, at Suffolk Street, Lower East Side, (917) 434-4245, ramikencrucible.com. (Smith)
Mary Weatherford: 'Manhattan' (through Oct. 14) While suggesting a calculated, even desperate combination of received ideas -- namely the washy stained colors of Helen Frankenthaler and the early 1970s neon wall pieces of the sculptor Keith Sonnier -- the latest efforts by this abstract painter are unexpectedly convincing. Electric and liquid color prove mutually enhancing and, with loose brushwork stopping well short of the canvas edges and wiring in full view, the overall roughness of execution makes the works as much installation pieces as paintings. Brennan & Griffin, 55 Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 227-0115, brennangriffin.com. (Smith)
Eric Yahnker: 'Virgin Birth 'N' Turf' (through October 13) Mr. Yahnker skewers the usual and not-so-usual suspects from politics and entertainment in drawings great and small. He is also an ambitious, prolific and technically impressive draftsman. Working with graphite and colored pencil, he creates photo-derived images sometimes reaching over eight feet high giving heft to otherwise slight one-liners like the image of a beleaguered Jesus reading a book by Representative Michele Bachmann, a Minnesota Republican, called ''Core of Conviction.'' The Hole, 312 Bowery, near Houston Street, (212) 466-1100, theholenyc.com. (Johnson)
Public Art
'Common Ground' (through Nov. 30) Located on a site known in the 17th century as the Commons -- which also served as the site of Bloombergville, the precursor to Occupy Wall Street one year ago -- this show offers some incendiary critiques. Ian Hamilton Finlay's group of stone slabs arranged on a patch of grass includes inscriptions from the writings of Louis de Saint-Just (1767-94), a French Revolutionary leader. Paul McCarthy's ''Daddies Ketchup'' (2001), a huge inflatable bottle of ketchup makes a Neo-Pop-psychoanalytic connection between patriarchy and power, and Elmgreen & Dragset's aluminum bullhorn housed in a slick, industrial vitrine evokes protesters in Zuccotti Park, who were forbidden from using any amplification devices, developed a signature form of analogue augmentation, the ''people's microphone.'' City Hall Park, Public Art Fund, (212) 223-7800, publicartfund.org. (Schwendener)
&#x2605; Tatzu Nishi: 'Discovering Columbus' (through Nov. 18) In his first commission in the United States, a Japanese artist known for temporarily privatizing monuments and landmarks across the globe by building fully outfitted living rooms or hotel suites around them, takes on the statue of Christopher Columbus perched above Columbus Circle. A free timed ticket and a six-story climb (or elevator ride) yields the semi-Surreal sight of the sculpture presiding over an upscale living room. But the ravishing views may be the main treat. Open daily, from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m., at Columbus Circle, West 59th Street and Broadway. Free tickets available at publicartfund.org, (866) 607-5461 or the information desk at the Shops at Columbus Circle, third floor. (Smith)
Out of Town
&#x2605; Robert Adams: 'The Place We Live, A Retrospective Selection of Photographs' (through Oct. 28) A prophet in the wilderness of modernity, the photographer Robert Adams has devoted almost five decades to decrying what fecklessly industrious humans have done to the landscape of the American West. This splendid retrospective show of more than 250 prints dating from the late 1960s to 2009 surveys an oeuvre that is as compelling for its understated metaphorical resonance as for its moral ferocity. Yale University Art Gallery, 111 Chapel Street, New Haven, (203) 432-0600, artgallery.yale.edu. (Johnson)
'Anti-Establishment' (through Dec. 21) Contrary to this muddled exhibition's title, the artists it presents are not uncompromising rebels. The show's curator, Johanna Burton, avers that they imagine ''novel collective relationships and emergent models of engaged citizenship,'' but much of the work is more self-reflexively preoccupied with art than with worldly affairs. Best of all is a room full of Abstract Expressionist-style paintings made with Day-Glo paints by Jacqueline Humphries displayed under ultra violet light. It is a lushly visual trip. Hessel Museum of Art, Bard College Center for Curatorial Studies, Annandale-on-Hudson, (845) 758-7598, bard.edu/ccs. (Johnson)
Bowdoin College Museum of Art: 'William Wegman: Hello Nature' (through Oct. 21) As its title implies, this beguiling show surveys the erstwhile Conceptual pioneer's lifelong attachment to nature, especially as evidenced in his characteristically witty, offhand works of the past two decades. Included are drawings, collages, photographs and altered photographs, as well as photographs and a 25-minute movie featuring his signature, endlessly cooperative Weimaraners. Also on hand are numerous examples of his efforts in painting, which he took up again in 1985, made with and without postcards. Bowdoin College Museum of Art, 9400 College Station, Brunswick, Me., (207) 725-3275, bowdoin.edu/art-museum. (Smith)
'From 199A to 199B: Liam Gillick' (through Dec. 21) Mr. Gillick is a nearly ubiquitous figure on the international art scene as a conceptual artist, speaker, writer and collaborator with other luminaries like Rirkrit Tiravanija and Pierre Huyghe. He designs shiny, quasi-architectural sculptures for sale in commercial galleries, but here the focus is on politically motivated conceptual projects from the 1990s. If sociology and ideology are your things, this show is for you. Center for Curatorial Studies, Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, (845) 758-7598, bard.edu/ccs. (Johnson)
Institute of Contemporary Art, Pennsylvania: 'Jeremy Deller: Joy in People' (through Dec. 30) The British artist Jeremy Deller, the subject of this thought-provoking show, is the anti-Damien Hirst. He has fashioned a Turner Prize-winning career devoted to breaking down the traditional walls between art and the world at large. Rather than producing visually arresting objects for sale in antiseptic galleries he has organized parades; created odd signs and bumper stickers; made a film about Depeche Mode fans around the world; and orchestrated a historical re-enactment of a large, violent conflict between striking coal miners and police in Orgreave, in South Yorkshire, in 1984. University of Pennsylvania, 118 South 36th Street, Philadelphia, (215) 898-7108, icaphila.org. (Johnson)
'Light and Landscape' (through Nov. 11) Temporary exhibitions at this bucolic art park have not been notably cutting edge, but this show of Postmodernist sculptures relating to light organized by the center's new associate curator, Nora Lawrence, may signal a promising change in the program. It includes indoor works by Roni Horn, Alyson Shotz and Diana Thater and elaborate outdoor constructions by Spencer Finch and William Lamson. Most surprising is Peter Coffin's ''Untitled (Sunshine),'' which consists of four loud speakers attached to a tall pole on a grassy hill broadcasting sunny keyboard melodies composed and performed by the jazz musician Bob James. Storm King Art Center, Old Pleasant Hill Road, Mountainville, N.Y., (845) 534-3115, stormkingartcenter.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art: 'Oh Canada' (through April 1) Seesawing between bigness and intimacy, the personal and the communal, this 62-artist survey of contemporary art in the Great White North may tell you more about Canada's identity crisis than it does about Canadian art. A sense of place, if not nationhood, does emerge in stark photographs of Newfoundland by Ned Pratt and Kim Morgan's hanging latex cast of a lighthouse on Prince Edward Island. Elsewhere, cartoonlike pencil drawings by Annie Pootoogook and Shuvinai Ashoona depict contemporary Inuit life and the artist Amalie Atkins stars in a prairie fairy tale involving musical wolves and bears with golden teeth. 87 Marshall Street, North Adams, (413) 662-2111, massmoca.org. (Rosenberg)
National Gallery of Art: 'Elegance and Refinement: The Still-Life Paintings of Willem van Aelst' (through Oct. 14) Still-life painting bloomed like never before in the Netherlands in the 17th century, and among its most coveted blossoms were those of Willem van Aelst (1627-83), the subject of this small, intense exhibition of 28 paintings. Van Aelst painted the sorts of objects customary among his fellow still-life producers -- flowers in ornate, precious vases; ripe fruit; dead game animals; and hunting gear -- achieving at best a nearly hallucinatory realism. Constitution Avenue NW, between Third and Ninth Streets, Washington, (202) 737-4215, nga.gov. (Johnson)
&#x2605; National Museum of African Art: 'African Cosmos: Stellar Arts' (through Dec. 9) Packed with celestial bodies and patches of darkness sending forth light, this show is about the extent and persistence of cosmological consciousness in art, old and new, from the African continent. It's also a bold demonstration of a more specific reality: that in Africa, art and science, including astronomy, have always intersected, and continue to, whether in prayers on an ancient Egyptian mummy case asking that the deceased owner be lifted to the stars or in a contemporary video projection that simulates the aurora borealis. Visitors to the National Museum of African Art should also take in the smart, stimulating reinstallation of the permanent collection. Smithsonian Institution, 950 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, (202) 633-4600, africa.si.edu. (Cotter)
Last Chance
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'Rineke Dijkstra: A Retrospective' (closes on Monday) More mid-career survey than retrospective, a selection of some 70 large color photographs and five videos reflect this 53-year-old Dutch artist's faith in the power of two things: youth and the camera. Her ability to coax out the emotional subtleties and raw energy that are special to children, adolescents and young adults, with grave, revelatory and sometimes ecstatic results, is reflected in works that at their best effortlessly balance the formality of traditional portrait painting with the immediacy of real life. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; 'A Poet's Circle' and 'Bettissima: Treasures From the Elizabeth Kray Archive' (closes on Tuesday) Poets House, a quarter-century old this year, is celebrating with small shows dedicated to its founders, the poet Stanley Kunitz (1905-2006) and the arts administrator Elizabeth Kray (1916-87). Many of Mr. Kunitz's friends were artists, and his exhibition, organized by Jason Andrew, consists of work by several of them, including Jack Tworkov, Saul Steinberg and Philip Guston, who works Kunitz words into his art. Poets House, 10 River Terrace, at Murray Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 431-7920, poetshouse.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Queens Museum of Art: 'Her Stories: Fifteen Years of the South Asian Women's Creative Collective' (closes on Sunday) The South Asian Women's Creative Collective was founded by the artist Jaishri Abichandani in New York City in 1997, when identity politics had been in the air for a while, but artists from much of the Asian diaspora were still being given the cold shoulder by the mainstream art world. By providing strength-in-numbers support and access to resources, the collective helped move a generation of artists ahead, as this tightly packed power generator of an anniversary survey demonstrates. Queens Museum of Art, New York City Building, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, (718) 592-9700, queensmuseum.org. (Cotter)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'MONET'S GARDEN': (through Oct. 21) From 1883 to the end of his life in 1926 Claude Monet presided over his estate in Giverny, working at flower gardening with as much industry and creativity as he did on his paintings. The main attraction here is a living abbreviated approximation of the two major gardens that he designed and planted: one in traditional, orderly French style, the other a Japanese-inspired fantasia of water, blooming water lilies and weeping willows. There's even a reproduction, above, of the famous green bridge that arches over the lily pond at Giverny. The exhibition is far from the real thing, but there are moments of astounding beauty. New York Botanical Garden, Bronx River Parkway (Exit 7W) and Fordham Road, Bedford Park, the Bronx, (718) 817-8700, nybg.org. (Ken Johnson) (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); PAINTING (79%); HISTORY (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); WOMEN (76%); ART HISTORY (74%); HAUTE COUTURE (69%); RACE & RACISM (66%); FABRICS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (90%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012



207 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Angry Karzai Accuses U.S. of Duplicity in Fighting Afghan Enemies

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN and HABIB ZAHORI

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- The Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, on Thursday accused the United States of playing a ''double game'' by fighting a war against Afghan insurgents rather than their backers in Pakistan, and by refusing to supply his country with the weapons it needs to fight enemies across the border. He threatened to turn to China, India and Russia for those arms.
He also accused the Western news media of trying to undermine the confidence of the Afghan people by publishing articles suggesting that a civil war and economic collapse might follow the departure of NATO troops at the end of 2014. However, he also promised, using his strongest words to date, that he would step down from the presidency and that there would be an election. 
''No circumstance, no foreign propaganda or intervention and no insecurity can prevent the election from happening,'' Mr. Karzai said at a news conference. It was the second time in recent days that Mr. Karzai had sounded angry and resentful over the policies of his American partners, and his comments Thursday were among his most pointedly critical in recent years, Afghan analysts said, suggesting that the always rocky relationship between the countries is hitting a new low. Mr. Karzai touched on a number of similar points in an interview with the CBS program ''60 Minutes'' on Sunday.
''NATO and Afghanistan should fight this war where terrorism stems from,'' Mr. Karzai said on Thursday, alluding to the havens in Pakistan where the Taliban take refuge. ''But the United States is not ready to go and fight the terrorists there. This shows a double game. They say one thing and do something else.
''If this war is against insurgency, then it is an Afghan and internal issue, then why are you here? Let us take care of it.
''But if you are here to fight terrorism, then you should go to where their safe havens are and where terrorism is financed and manufactured,'' he said.
He also expressed frustration about the lack of sophisticated weapons from NATO countries, saying, ''Are we going to wait and do nothing, or should we buy them from Russia, China, India or other countries?''
The relationship between Afghanistan and the United States has been on a downward slide since midsummer, shortly after a conference in Tokyo at which Western countries pledged $16 billion to support Afghanistan through 2015.
Ambassador Ryan C. Crocker, with whom Mr. Karzai had built a strong relationship, left for health reasons. His replacement, James Cunningham, lacks the same history with the Afghan leader. Gen. John R. Allen, the NATO commander as well as the American commander for Afghanistan, also does not have an especially close relationship with Mr. Karzai, although the two talk regularly.
In August, a tense and unpleasant dispute began between the countries over the terms for handing over Afghan prisoners at the American-run detention facility in Parwan. With most prisoners handed over, the Americans halted the remaining transfers in September after indications that the Afghans might release some of the most dangerous ones. The Afghans were furious and charged the Americans with breaking the terms of a memorandum of understanding on the handover. It took a lengthy phone call by President Obama to Mr. Karzai to get discussions back on track.
Then, eight Afghan women were killed in American-led airstrikes as they collected firewood in a remote area of eastern Afghanistan. At the same time, the frequency of insider killings of Western troops by Afghan security forces was undermining the relationship between the American and Afghan soldiers on the ground.
These developments, along with a lack of clarity about American policy after the November presidential election, appear to have enraged Mr. Karzai.
His remarks Thursday suggest that he is not sure whether he can count on the Americans, analysts said, and he is trying to leverage some commitment from the United States regarding Afghanistan's future.
''He is tremendously confused about our interests and priorities,'' Stephen Biddle, a professor of defense studies at George Washington University, said in a telephone interview. ''Sometimes it sounds like Karzai thinks we want Afghanistan as a kind of aircraft carrier in Central Asia to use to attack our enemies in the region.
''He doesn't have a very clear picture of what we are after, so he flops around between various fairly extreme ideas of American interest, because what he has seen from us is so inconsistent.''
Afghan analysts emphasized that Mr. Karzai was speaking to Afghans and trying to reassure them that he was not a tool of the Americans and Europeans, even though they still hold the country's purse strings.
''By lashing out at the West and the U.S., the president is trying to send a message to the people of Afghanistan that he is not a puppet of the West,'' said Khalil Roman, an analyst based in Kabul.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Hamid Karzai said Thursday in Kabul that the United States was playing a ''double game'' with Afghanistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY S. SABAWOON/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TALIBAN (79%); CIVIL WAR (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); PUBLISHING (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (51%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CHINA (93%); INDIA (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); JAPAN (51%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012



208 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Moderate Mitt Returns!

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
A sour fog settled over the Republican Party during the primary season. Several plausible candidates decided not to run for president, and the whole conversation ended up tainted by various political circus acts.
The G.O.P. did its best to appear unattractive. It had trouble talking the language of compassion. It seemed to regard reasonable political compromise as an act of dishonor. It offered little for struggling Americans except that government would leave them alone.
The Obama campaign took advantage. President Obama could have run against Mitt Romney by calling him a flip-flopper. Instead, the president tapped into the G.O.P. gestalt and accused him of being a soulless ideologue or the tool of ideologues. Judging by how the president was prepared for Wednesday's debate, Obama's staff apparently believed that that charge was actually true. 
But, on Wednesday night, Romney finally emerged from the fog. He broke with the stereotypes of his party and, at long last, began the process of offering a more authentic version of himself.
Far from being a lackey to the rich, Romney vowed that rich people will not see tax bills go down under a Romney administration. He attacked Obama for giving a ''kiss to New York banks.'' Instead, he focused relentlessly on job creation for the middle class, which, he noted, has seen incomes fall by $4,300 under this president while gas prices have doubled and health care costs have surged.
Far from being an individualistic, social Darwinist, Romney spoke comfortably about compassion and shared destinies: ''We're a nation that believes that we're all children of the same God, and we care for those that have difficulties, those that are elderly and have problems and challenges, those that are disabled.''
Far from wanting to eviscerate government and railing about government dependency, Romney talked about how to make government programs work better. ''I'm not going to cut education funding,'' he vowed. He praised government job-training efforts and said he wanted to consolidate them. He lamented that $90 billion has been shipped to energy corporations, which could have paid for two million teachers.
Far from being a pitchfork-wielding populist who wants to raze Washington, Romney said he would work with the people he finds there. ''We have to work on a collaborative basis, not because we're going to compromise our principle but because there is common ground.'' He bragged that in his old job as governor, he met with Democrats every week. He boasted about his bipartisan health care bill. He praised the (semimythical) friendship between Ronald Reagan and Tip O'Neill.
Far from being an unthinking deregulator, Romney declared, ''Regulation is essential. ... I mean, you have to have regulations so that you can have an economy work.'' Instead of championing unfettered capitalism, he said he wanted predictable and workable rules. He criticized housing regulations that can't give a clear idea of what a qualified mortgage is. He criticized financial regulations that favor big banks over small ones.
Romney didn't describe a comprehensive governing philosophy, but he gave us a hint of a strong center-right pragmatic approach. It starts with 1986-style tax reform and Wyden-Ryan Medicare reform and then offers a glimpse of experimental pragmatism on most everything else.
Yes, it's true. Romney's tax numbers don't add up. Yes, there's a lot of budgetary flimflam. No, Romney still doesn't have an easy answer to wage stagnation (neither does Obama). But Romney's debate performance signals the return of Governor Mitt. Democrats call it hypocrisy; I call it progress.
You could conceivably build a majority coalition around this framework, winning over more working-class women and some Hispanic voters. The crucial test will be whether Romney can develop, brand and sell this approach over the campaign's final month.
Most important, Romney did something no other mainstream Republican has had the guts to do. Either out of conviction or political desperation, he broke with Tea Party orthodoxy and began to redefine the Republican identity. And, having taken this step, he's broken the spell. Conservatives loved it! They loved that it was effective, and it was effective because Romney could more authentically be the man who (I think) he truly is.
Now it's the Obama campaign that has problems to solve. Politically, the president will have to go back to portraying Romney as a flip-flopper instead of an ideologue. Substantively, Obama will have to kindle new passion. So far, he's seemed driven by the negative passion of stopping Republican extremism. He'll have to develop a positive passion for something he actually wants to do.
I gave Obama better reviews than most pundits did Wednesday night, but his closing statement was as bad as any I've ever heard. If he can't come up with a two-minute argument for why he should be president again, the former Mr. Audacity might still lose to the former Mr. Right Winger.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); JOB CREATION (70%); HEALTH CARE LAW (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (64%); EDUCATION FUNDING (61%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012



209 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Bit Parts but No Bit Players at a Public Theater Event

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
To be or not to be a Shakespearean actor, that was the question. The man who was about to read from "A Midsummer Night's Dream" explained his motivation this way: "I'm going to be unemployed in 453 days and out interviewing for new jobs."
Then Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg proceeded to deliver a passage from the comedy that Shakespeare is thought to have written when he was in his mid-30s. Like Mandy Patinkin and Vanessa Redgrave, who followed the mayor in delivering bits of Shakespeare during a ceremony at the Public Theater on Thursday, Mr. Bloomberg read his lines. 
The mayor, who said later that it was his debut in Shakespeare, popped the "p" in the word "accompany." Still, he got a standing ovation - but most of the audience was standing anyway, and had been for 15 or 20 minutes, because the ceremony took place in the lobby of the Public, not a place with rows and rows of seats. These were the mayor's lines, from Act V, Scene 1:
Joy, gentle friends! Joy and fresh days of loveAccompany your hearts!
The ceremony celebrated the completion of a $40 million renovation of the Public's 1850s Renaissance Revival building, in the East Village. It has new granite stairs and a new canopy outside, along with reopened archways inside (they had been sealed off sometime in the past) and a new snack bar in the center of the lobby. It was dispensing coffee and juice as people mingled before the speeches - and the Shakespeare readings.
The cast was varied, to say the least. Mr. Patinkin read from "The Tempest" and added a mention of Joseph Papp, who founded the Public. Mr. Papp's widow, Gail, read three lines from "Coriolanus." The architect James S. Polshek, who was the design counsel on the renovation, read four lines from "Henry IV" that sounded like a job description, for they mentioned surveying a plot, drawing a model and figuring the cost when, as Shakespeare put it, "we mean to build." Miss Redgrave read from "As You Like It," while the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, read from "All's Well That Ends Well."
Oskar Eustis, the Public's artistic director, said the readings were a "kind of a peculiar benediction" after the speeches, which included one by Luis A. Urbinas, the president of the Ford Foundation, which gave $2 million for the renovation and for which the new lobby was named.
Mr. Urbinas said he had discovered the Public as a teenager from the South Bronx in the 1970s when he and a friend went to a free performance of "Macbeth." They were approached, Mr. Urbinas recalled, by "what seemed to our high school eyes this ancient man - he was 50. He explained we were way too early, but we could hang around." The man turned out to be Mr. Papp, he said.
For his part, Mr. Bloomberg said he had considered recreating "some of the theater's greatest moments."
"For example, I could perform that showstopper from the Public's beloved 'The Pirates of Penzance,' my favorite Gilbert and Sullivan," he said, "and I would call it, 'I am the model of the modern mayor general.'"
The crowd laughed, perhaps a little uneasily, as if the next line might be a real groaner, and the mayor said, "It's not easy to write this stuff, folks, you know?"
He suggested changing one of the most famous songs in "The Threepenny Opera" to "Mike the Knife."
"Or maybe I could revive the performance I gave at a charity event a year or so ago with the cast of 'Hair,'" he said. "Thankfully, there was no nude scene there." A moment later, he said, "On the advice of our corporation counsel, Michael Cardozo, who doubles as a board member of the Public, I won't do it today, either." (Clothed cast members from the Public's 2008 revival of "Hair'' later performed "Let the Sun Shine In.")
Then, without so much as a spotlight or a snappy song like "One" from "A Chorus Line," Mr. Eustis introduced what he called the mayor's "audition for his new job, which I promise I will take very seriously."
Afterward, Mr. Eustis said, "There is no question I am going to give him a callback." He also promised to give the mayor "a few adjustments, because that's how we figure out what his range is."
"I'm actually sort of serious," Mr. Eustis said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The cast of ''Hair'' sang from the balcony of the newly renovated Public Theater in the East Village at its dedication on Thursday.
 Mandy Patinkin, among others, read from Shakespeare. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); JOB DESCRIPTIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); CITIES (71%); FOUNDATIONS (66%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012



210 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Iranians Offer Plan to End Nuclear Crisis

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With harsh economic sanctions contributing to the first major protests in Iran in three years, Iranian officials have begun to describe what they call a ''nine-step plan'' to defuse the nuclear crisis with the West by gradually suspending the production of the uranium that would be easiest for them to convert into a nuclear weapon.
But the plan requires so many concessions by the West, starting with the dismantling of all the sanctions that are blocking oil sales and setting off the collapse of the Iranian currency, that American officials have dismissed it as unworkable. Nonetheless, Iranian officials used their visit to the United Nations last week to attempt to drum up support, indicating that the country's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, is finally feeling the pressure. 
''Within the intelligence community, I think it's fair to say that there is split opinion about whether the upper level of the regime is getting seriously worried,'' one senior intelligence official said when asked why the Iranians appeared to be backing away from their earlier stand that nothing would stop them from producing more medium-enriched uranium, which can be turned into bomb fuel in a matter of months.
''He's erratic, and we've seen him walk up to the edge of deals before and walk away,'' the official said, referring to Ayatollah Khamenei.
The Iranian plan is based on a proposal made to European officials in July. It essentially calls for a step-by-step dismantling of the sanctions while the Iranians end work at one of two sites where they are enriching what is known as ''20 percent uranium.'' Only when the Iranians reach step No. 9 -- after all the sanctions are gone and badly depressed oil revenues have begun to flow again -- would there be a ''suspension'' of the medium-enriched uranium production at the deep underground site called Fordow.
Obama administration officials say the deal is intended to generate headlines, but would not guarantee that Iran cannot produce a weapon. ''The way they have structured it, you can move the fuel around, and it stays inside the country,'' a senior Obama administration official said. ''They could restart the program in a nanosecond. They don't have to answer any questions from the inspectors'' about evidence that they conducted research on nuclear weapons technology, but nonetheless would insist on a statement from the agency that all issues have been resolved.
''Yet we're supposed to lift sanctions that would take years to reimpose, if we could get countries to agree,'' the administration official said.
The United States has not put a formal offer on the table. But the outline of a way to a solution they described to Iranian officials before the summer is almost the mirror image of the Iranian nine-step proposal.
Under the American vision, Iran would halt all production of its 20 percent enriched uranium immediately, ship the existing stockpile out of the country and close the Fordow plant. That would defuse the threat of an Iranian ''breakout'' to produce a weapon, leaving the Iranians with a stockpile of low-enriched uranium that would require far more lengthy processing to weaponize.
Then the United States and its allies would offer some cooperation on civilian nuclear projects, and would agree not to add new sanctions at the United Nations Security Council. But the sanctions squeezing the Iranian economy would remain in place until a final deal is reached.
To the Iranians, this is a prescription for government change, and they insist it will fail. ''I ask you sincerely, can anyone go to war with Iran,'' even an economic war, and ''come out a victor?'' President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said last week during a meeting with a half-dozen authors who have written books about Iran. ''Why does the U.S. believe she can prevail?''
Yet Mr. Ahmadinejad declined to talk about the current negotiations. Instead, to the astonishment of Iranian officials, he argued at the session that the Iranian people were better off economically than they had been when he came to office. Since Mr. Ahmadinejad's return to Tehran, Iranian officials have begun looking for any signs that their proposal, although rejected by Washington, could represent the basis of a conversation.
So far, it is difficult to find much overlap between the American and Iranian proposals. Both countries want to retain leverage, so the Iranians believe it is essential to keep the capability to produce uranium, and they reject any proposals to dismantle the nuclear infrastructure they have built, which they say is for civilian use. Similarly, the Americans, Europeans and Israelis believe they must maintain the constant pressure of sanctions.
On Wednesday, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton made it clear that the United States had no intention of relaxing the sanctions -- particularly now, just as they show the first sign of forcing Iran's leaders to rethink the costs of their nuclear program.
''We have always said that we had a dual-track approach to this, and one track was trying to put pressure on the Iranian government to come to the negotiating table,'' Mrs. Clinton told reporters. But she said it was Iran's own mismanagement of its economy, more than the sanctions, that deserved ''responsibility for what is going on inside Iran.''
''And that is who should be held accountable,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''And I think that they have made their own government decisions, having nothing to do with the sanctions that have had an impact on the economic conditions inside the country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Iran's plan was seen as a sign that Ayatollah Ali Khamenei was feeling the pressure. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAREN FIROUZ/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: ALI KHAMENEI (78%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012



211 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1476 words

HEADLINE: After Debate, a Torrent of Criticism for Obama

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
The immediate reaction to Wednesday night's presidential debate was a torrent of criticism directed at President Obama, with Republicans, and as well as many Democrats, accusing Mr. Obama of delivering a flat, uninspired and defensive performance.
Republicans seemed genuinely surprised that his opponent, Mitt Romney, was energetic, aggressive and presidential during his first-ever general election debate.
''In a thoroughly dominating performance, Romney bested Barack Obama in both tone and substance,'' Stephen F. Hayes of the conservative Weekly Standard magazine wrote after the debate. ''Obama often found himself at the end of a verbal cul-de-sac, seemingly unaware of how he'd ended up there.''
At an impromptu appearance Thursday morning in front of a group of Colorado conservative activists, Mr. Romney said the debate was a contrast of ''two visions'' and said it was ''helpful to be able to describe those visions.'' 
At the gathering, Mr. Romney reprised his lines from the debate, saying the president's vision for the country is of ''trickle-down government'' and criticized Mr. Obama as misleading the public about his plans to cut the deficit.
''Only in Washington would you count $4 trillion in reduction when in fact his plan calls for adding $1 trillion in debt every one of the next four years,'' Mr. Romney.
Mr. Romney mentioned Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.'s comments about the middle class having been ''buried'' during the last four years -- a word he used during the debate on Wednesday.
''If we continue down his path, there's no question that the middle class, which the vice president noted has been buried, will continue to be buried with higher and higher expenses for gasoline for food for utilities for health insurance,'' he said.
On Twitter, some of Mr. Obama's Democratic allies expressed anger and disappointment that the president did not make better use of the ''47 percent'' speech by Mr. Romney and other missteps that the Democratic campaign has spent months honing into attack ads and stump speeches.
Andrew Sullivan, a blogger and strong supporter of Mr. Obama, echoed Peggy Noonan, a former Republican speechwriter, on Twitter, saying that ''this is a rolling calamity for Obama.'' Mr. Sullivan added: ''He's boring, abstract, and less human-seeming than Romney!''
And Bill Maher, the liberal comedian who had donated $1 million to a ''superPAC'' backing Mr. Obama, joked: ''I can't believe I'm saying this, but Obama looks like he DOES need a teleprompter.''
At this point, it remains unclear whether these snap assessments and others made immediately after the debate will be matched by the more sober judgments of voters in the upcoming days. Voters sometimes surprise the pundits by coming to different conclusions about the outcome of a presidential debate.
And Mr. Obama's top strategists predicted that some of Mr. Romney's answers -- in particular, his admissions about the need for a voucher system for Medicare -- would deepen the concern in some communities about Mr. Romney's policies.
''He was unable and unwilling to explain the math behind his $5 trillion tax cut favoring the wealthy, refused to say what rules he'd put in place to protect consumers after repealing Wall Street reform, and didn't offer a single idea to protect families from insurance company abuses after repealing Obamacare,'' Jim Messina, Mr. Obama's campaign manager, said in a statement after the debate.
The candidates head out to the campaign trail immediately, where Mr. Romney will have to find a way to turn the positive reviews from the debate into a sustained push that changes the dynamic of the race. He is expected to campaign with Representative Paul D. Ryan, his vice-presidential running mate, in Virginia on Thursday evening.
Mr. Obama has been very aggressive of late on the stump, and his scheduled events on Thursday in Denver and Madison, Wis., will give him a quick opportunity to show that energy. But some Democrats charged with helping to elect Mr. Obama in some key swing states privately expressed frustration after the debate Wednesday night that Mr. Obama's lackluster performance made their jobs harder.
The debate was designed to be wonkish, and it did not disappoint. By giving the candidates 15 minutes -- or more -- to discuss each topic, the debate provided that there were plenty of long-winding answers filled with sometimes mind-numbing statistics.
It might have made the exchange boring in the eyes of voters who have come to expect short and fast-paced political combat. There were almost no ''zingers'' designed to embarrass the other candidate or create a bumper-sticker moment.
Those kinds of ''gotcha'' moments have sometimes changed the course of an election, as did Gerald Ford's inaccurate contention that there had never been any Soviet domination of Eastern Europe. Without such a moment, Wednesday's debate may have less impact.
But the perceived imbalance between the two performances seemed certain to provide at least a temporary bump for Mr. Romney, who had been struggling to reinvigorate a somewhat faltering campaign during the past several weeks. Ahead of the debate, Mr. Romney was trailing slightly in national polls and by larger margins in some battleground states.
Republicans, declaring Mr. Romney the clear winner of the debate, predicted his performance would help him win the election in just over a month.
Democratic strategists for Mr. Obama's campaign were forced to acknowledge Mr. Romney's aggressive performance. Stephanie Cutter, the deputy campaign manager for Mr. Obama's campaign, said on CNN that Mr. Romney ''scores points on style.''
David Plouffe, a senior White House adviser who ran Mr. Obama's 2008 campaign, said that the president did not bring up some of the attacks that the campaign has made in television ads. He said the ''mission tonight was not for zingers.''
Ms. Cutter insisted that Mr. Romney did not fundamentally alter the dynamics of the campaign.
''Mitt Romney needed to come in here tonight, not just to win this debate, which challengers normally do, let's face it,'' Ms. Cutter said on CNN. ''He needed to change the entire dynamic of this race. He didn't. He didn't do that because he doubled down on the same policies that have dogged him for the last 18 months.''
Even Democratic pollsters said that focus groups they convened during the debate were impressed by Mr. Romney and somewhat surprised by Mr. Obama's lack of an aggressive performance. In a memo released Thursday morning, the Democratic polling firm of Greenberg Quinlan Rosner concluded that Mr. Romney had a good night.
''The dial testing and follow-up discussions showed Mitt Romney performing well, improving his personal appeal and a number of important attributes,'' the firm concluded. ''Obama also impressed the group, but not to the same degree as Romney. However, the research does not suggest that Romney fundamentally changed the political calculus in this election.''
Both campaigns quickly used the debate to try to raise money for the last month of the race.
In an e-mail sent just after 1 a.m. on the East Coast, Mr. Obama wrote to his supporters: ''I hope I made you proud out there explaining the vision we share for this country. Now we need to go win this election -- the most important thing that will happen tonight is what you do (or don't do) to help in the little time we have left.''
Earlier in the evening, Mr. Ryan and Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, both sent e-mails seeking donations for Mr. Romney's campaign.
''After watching tonight's debate, the choice this November could not be clearer,'' Mr. Rubio said. ''A vote for Barack Obama is a vote for four more years of economic stagnation and weak foreign policy; as well as higher taxes, debt, and health care costs.''
And by Thursday morning, the campaigns and their allies at the Democratic and Republican National Committees had both produced YouTube videos that they hoped would help spread their message about the debate online.
Mr. Obama's campaign released a video called ''Mostly Fiction,'' in which it accuses Mr. Romney of playing ''fast and loose'' with the truth during the debate.
''The sharpest observers saw beyond Romney's 'zingers' and witnessed him looking in the eye of those he expects to elect him and tell outright lies about his record on several occasions -- at least 12 times,'' the campaign said in a news release that accompanied the video.
Republicans produced one called ''Smirk,'' which showed Mr. Obama's reaction during much of the debate. In the video, the president is shown looking down with a grimace on his face, or smirking while Mr. Romney talks about the failures of Mr. Obama's administration.
In the Democratic video, called ''What a Guy,'' the Democratic committee shows Mr. Romney running roughshod over the moderator of the debate, Jim Lehrer, at several points.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); LIBERALISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012



212 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: The First Debate: Sampling the Reviews

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Obama and Romney, in First Debate, Spar Over Fixing the Economy'' (front page, Oct. 4):
It was disheartening to watch President Obama blow this first important encounter with his adversary. Not only did he not bring up Mitt Romney's shocking ''47 percent'' comment or his nasty offshore banking practices, but he also seemed to have difficulty focusing on the issue at hand. It was as if he had heard terrible news just before he reached the lectern and couldn't shake it off.
Please, Mr. President, be the fighter, the hero you have been in the past and can be again. 
ANNE BERNAYS Cambridge, Mass., Oct. 4, 2012
To the Editor:
How refreshing! No sound bites, no zingers, a sober exchange of radically different ideas. I thought both candidates did a great job in not speaking down to the American people. Now I hope the people were smart enough to listen carefully, ignore the spin and decide for themselves. Then vote. In record numbers. That would be a true act of patriotism.
TONY GITTELSON Los Angeles, Oct. 4, 2012
To the Editor:
Mitt Romney lost the debate and revealed why he should not be elected. The instant pundits who declared him the winner based on ''style'' are wrong, as time will show.
President Obama's restraint led Mr. Romney to way overplay his hand. Feeling safe in the space Mr. Obama allowed him, Mr. Romney turned pitchman. He exaggerated, misled, promised voters more than it is arithmetically or politically possible to deliver, and contradicted positions he took during the primary debates, while avoiding specifics. Mr. Obama let him pander on.
The audience could see the real Mitt Romney, the same man who found it convenient to pitch a rather different message to Florida donors last May. Voters understand that this is a contest for president, not best actor in a leading role.
STEPHEN GILLERS New York, Oct. 4, 2012
The writer is a professor at New York University School of Law.
To the Editor:
The debate suggests that the Republican Party has already won, regardless of who becomes president in November. Far from representing what you call ''a clash of two ideologies,'' the debate focused on who would most sensibly implement the G.O.P. agenda of cutting taxes while somehow balancing the budget.
President Obama did not forcefully defend the stimulus spending that has aided our economic recovery, point out that school districts fired teachers when the Republicans blocked his plan for more stimulus spending or squarely argue for replacing our crumbling infrastructure. So the debate became an arcane discussion of tax policy, even though the moderator, Jim Lehrer, began by asking about how the candidates would create jobs.
DAVID M. DRIESEN Syracuse, Oct. 4, 2012
The writer is a university professor at the Syracuse University College of Law.
To the Editor:
The debate on Wednesday night was like the Kennedy-Nixon debate in 1960: optics versus substance.
As an Obama supporter, I was aghast at Mr. Obama's weak televised response to Mitt Romney's attack. Then I tuned in to a second showing of the debate. But I listened to the sound and did not watch the video. What a difference. Mr. Obama was the clear victor on the issues.
For the next debate, Mr. Obama should focus on directly challenging Mr. Romney and his obvious flip-flops on the issues and look directly at his challenger. And, above all, Mr. Obama should stop being presidential and go on the attack.
KEN BLALACK La Mesa, Calif., Oct. 4, 2012
To the Editor:
At the debate we saw a Mitt Romney whom we had not yet seen in this campaign. Gone was the ultraconservative who appealed to the Tea Party during the primaries; gone was the cold executive disdainful of the 47 percent who pay no taxes; gone was the candidate embracing Representative Paul D. Ryan and his draconian views.
Realizing that recent polling has him losing to President Obama, he obviously decided to create an entirely new persona. I, for one, hope that the voters will question whether we saw the real Mitt Romney.
WILLIAM C. IBERSHOF Mill Valley, Calif., Oct. 4, 2012
To the Editor:
Were we all watching the same debate? Mitt Romney came across as breathless and aggressive to the point of being in your face. He repeated Republican talking points and recent accusations as often as possible (apparently as instructed over two weeks of preparation). To this viewer, he seemed more desperate than presidential, and his facts were somewhat blurry.
In contrast, President Obama spoke more directly to the American people, seemed calmer and was more thoughtful and specific than Mr. Romney. There's no question in my mind who is presidential and who won this debate.
PATRICIA A. WELLER Emmitsburg, Md., Oct. 4, 2012
To the Editor:
I certainly agree that President Obama didn't give a stellar performance. I am troubled, however, that we have placed such importance on these debates. Being president involves more than debating skills!
At a time in our history when so many crucial decisions must be made, I would hope that the winner of this election would be chosen on the basis of his policies and plans for our nation in the coming years in the areas of health care, the economy, taxation, immigration, education and global outlook.
Give me a poor debater but a man with ideals, honesty and a vision for our country any time!
DORIS FENIG Floral Park, Queens, Oct. 4, 2012

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OTHER MEANS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (85%); LAW SCHOOLS (85%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); TAX LAW (66%); TAX RELIEF (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012



213 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Politics; THE AGENDA; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Entering Stage Right, Romney Moved to Center

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER, DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI and JACKIE CALMES; Ashley Parker contributed reporting.

 BODY:
He used the first presidential debate to speak out forcefully to its wide television audience against the idea of cutting taxes for the wealthy, noting that ''high-income people are doing just fine in this economy.'' Asked if there was too much government regulation, he answered, ''regulation is essential.'' And he praised the Massachusetts health care bill, calling it a ''model for the nation.''
These are all things that President Obama says occasionally on the campaign trail. But in this case, the lines were uttered at the debate Wednesday night in Denver by his Republican opponent, Mitt Romney.
Mr. Romney ran to the right in the Republican primaries in 2008 and this year, describing himself this winter as having been a ''severely conservative'' governor. This week, he pivoted to the center, as many political analysts had long expected him to do, seeking to appeal to more centrist general election voters. In doing so, Mr. Romney used striking new language to describe his policy proposals on taxes, education and health care in ways that may assuage independent voters -- but which may be sowing confusion about how Mr. Romney would govern. 
Mr. Romney suggested at the debate that while he would repeal the president's health care law, he would retain one of its most popular provisions, saying, ''I do have a plan that deals with people with pre-existing conditions.'' But his plan could exclude millions of people, since it would explicitly guarantee insurance only if they have maintained coverage with no significant lapses.
Mr. Romney also said at the debate that ''I don't have any plan to cut education funding and grants that go to people going to college,'' but his education plan says he would ''refocus Pell Grant dollars on the students that need them most and place the program on a responsible long-term path,'' suggesting fewer people would qualify.
The Romney campaign rejected the notion that Mr. Romney had shifted to the middle in tone or substance to woo independents, noting that he said little in the debate that he had not said before. In describing Massachusetts' health care law as ''a model for the nation, state by state,'' aides noted, he was reaffirming his position that states, and not the federal government, should make such decisions individually. And they noted that Mr. Romney's debate performance was praised by many conservatives -- Rush Limbaugh, Erick Erickson of RedState.com, William Kristol of The Weekly Standard -- who have been critical of him in the past.
Kevin Madden, a spokesman for the Romney campaign, said that Mr. Romney had spoken about his past bipartisanship to indicate his ability to get things done. ''This idea of bipartisanship, sitting down with people across the aisle and working on all these issues together, that's something that appeals not only to people in the middle who are undecided, but to people on either side who look at a Washington that is not getting anything done,'' Mr. Madden said.
But Mr. Romney's change in tone on taxes was especially striking. He wants to cut income tax rates across the board by 20 percent and make up for the lost revenue by eliminating or reducing tax breaks -- without raising the share of taxes paid by the middle class. A number of economists and independent analysts have said that it is not possible to achieve all of those goals, because cutting everyone's taxes would lose so much revenue that it could not be made it up without raising taxes on middle-income Americans by ending some of their tax breaks, too.
While Mr. Romney has always said that his proposal was designed to be revenue neutral, because the cut in tax rates would be offset by the reduction in tax breaks, he sometimes described his plan as a tax ''cut'' when facing conservative opponents during the Republican primaries.
When Rick Santorum charged at a debate this winter that Mr. Romney might raise taxes on ''the top 1 percent,'' Mr. Romney countered that ''we're going to cut taxes on everyone across the country by 20 percent, including the top 1 percent.''
At Wednesday night's debate he used different language. ''I'm not going to reduce the share of taxes paid by high-income people,'' he said. ''High-income people are doing just fine in this economy. They'll do fine whether you're president or I am.''
And he faulted Mr. Obama for describing his plan as a tax cut for the rich, saying, ''it's going to take a different path, not the one we've been on, not the one the president describes as a top-down, cut-taxes-for-the-rich -- that's not what I'm going to do.''
Democrats seized on Mr. Romney's shift, after many pundits proclaimed that Mr. Obama had done poorly in the debate. Mr. Obama told a rally in Denver on Thursday morning that he had gone on stage at the debate and ''met this very spirited fellow who claimed to be Mitt Romney.''
''But it couldn't have been Mitt Romney,'' he said, ''because the real Mitt Romney has been running around the country for the last year promising $5 trillion in tax cuts that favor the wealthy.''
The Romney campaign dismissed the criticisms, suggesting that Democrats were simply trying to change the subject from the president's poorly received debate performance. ''In full damage-control mode, President Obama today offered no defense of his record and no vision for the future,'' Ryan Williams, a Romney campaign spokesman, said in a statement.
It is difficult to assess Mr. Romney's tax plans because he has declined to name which deductions he would reduce, or to detail how his plan would work for different incomes -- making his policy akin to what scientists call a ''nonfalsifiable proposition,'' since it does not contain enough detail to fully test.
This week Mr. Romney rolled out a few new -- and, at times, contradictory -- specifics. He suggested on Monday that one way to increase revenue would be to cap the total amount of deductions any taxpayer could claim. Currently, there is no cap on the total amount of deductions a taxpayer can claim for items like mortgage interest, charitable deductions and state and local taxes. Under Mr. Romney's proposal, taxpayers could not deduct more than a set number, raising their taxable income and, therefore, their tax bills.
But the possible limit he first mentioned, $17,000, would raise only a small fraction of what the across-the-board tax rate cuts would cost and could result in tax increases on millions of middle-class families, according to an analysis by the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center. By the time the issue was raised in the debate Wednesday night, Mr. Romney's position was once again in flux.
''Make up a number,'' he said at the debate. ''Twenty-five thousand. $50,000. Anybody can have deductions up to that amount. And then that number disappears for high-income people.''
Mr. Obama objected that Mr. Romney's cuts would cost $5 trillion over a decade and disproportionately benefit the wealthy and cost the middle class.
''It is not possible to come up with enough deductions and loopholes that only affect high-income individuals to avoid either raising the deficit or burdening the middle class,'' he said. ''It's math. It's arithmetic.''
Mr. Romney ceded no ground, saying, ''no economist can say Mitt Romney's tax plan adds five trillion if I say I will not add to the deficit with my tax plan.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Romney's More Moderate Language 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); POLITICS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (63%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012



214 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Politics; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: After a New-Look Debate, a Harsh Light Falls on the Moderator

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER; Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The new format for the presidential debate prompted plenty of partisan debate online -- as did the performance of the moderator, Jim Lehrer.
Mr. Lehrer's light touch was widely criticized during and after the debate on Wednesday night, particularly by Democrats who felt that President Obama's Republican challenger, Mitt Romney, effectively moderated the debate himself. Speaking to CNN after the debate, Stephanie Cutter, the president's deputy campaign manager, said, ''I sometimes wondered if we even needed a moderator because we had Mitt Romney. We should rethink that for the next debate.''
But conservatives suggested that critiques of Mr. Lehrer were just excuses for Mr. Obama's own poor performance in the debate. 
Mr. Lehrer, 78, the former anchor of the ''NewsHour'' on PBS, moderated 11 presidential debates between 1988 and 2008. He had decided to do no more, but the Commission on Presidential Debates persuaded him to come back this year.
He said he was persuaded by the potential of the new format: it allowed for six 15-minute conversations, each starting with a question and two-minute answers from each candidate. The format was appealing to Mr. Lehrer, who has consistently said that his job as moderator is to get out of the way and get the candidates talking.
He succeeded in getting out of the candidates' way in Wednesday night's debate, and when he did speak, it was often in phrases like ''excuse me,'' ''wait'' and ''please.'' Throughout the evening, he strained to interrupt when the candidates went over their allotted time. And at one point he faced a testy Mr. Obama, who complained that the moderator had cut him off by saying that time was up. ''I had five seconds before you interrupted me,'' Mr. Obama said.
At other times, both candidates seemed to completely ignore Mr. Lehrer. When Mr. Obama criticized Mr. Romney as failing to provide more specifics about his economic plans, Mr. Romney insisted on responding. ''No, but,'' Mr. Lehrer said as Mr. Romney kept on going. He spoke for a minute, completing his entire thought without interruption from the moderator.
Because the first five topic areas took up more than 15 minutes each, the candidates only had three minutes to talk about the sixth topic, cures for partisan gridlock in Washington.
In an e-mailed statement Thursday afternoon, Mr. Lehrer said he thought the new format accomplished its purpose, ''which was to facilitate direct, extended exchanges between the candidates about issues of substance.'' He continued, ''Part of my moderator mission was to stay out of the way of the flow, and I had no problems with doing so. My only real personal frustration was discovering that 90 minutes was not enough time in that more open format to cover every issue that deserved attention.''
The critiques came from several sides of the media spectrum.
''Boy, Jim Lehrer got rolled over,'' MSNBC's Joe Scarborough said on ''Morning Joe'' on Thursday morning. ''You could see an exasperated look on Jim's face when they would just keep plowing right over him,'' said Gretchen Carlson on ''Fox & Friends'' on Fox News. Speaking on CNBC Thursday morning, Steve Liesman offered up what he called a ''private-sector solution'' to the moderator dilemma: ''Why can't the two guys take care of themselves?''
The complaints about Mr. Lehrer seemed loudest from the left. Bill Press, whose liberal radio program is simulcast on Current TV, started on Thursday by saying Mr. Lehrer ''lost control of the debate, and Mitt Romney ran all over him like a truck crushing a bug.'' The liberal media monitoring group Media Matters said Mr. Lehrer had ''lost the debate'' by missing ''repeated opportunities to press Mitt Romney into offering specifics on his policy proposals.'' Richard Kim, a writer for The Nation, concluded that Mr. Lehrer's version of moderation ''is fundamentally unequipped to deal with the era of post-truth, asymmetric polarization politics -- and it should be retired.''
The six-topic format for a debate primarily about domestic policy also drew complaints that many issues -- gun control, abortion, reproductive rights, gay rights, the environment -- were not addressed.
Alan Schroeder, a Northeastern University professor who has written books about debates, said that ''in Jim Lehrer's defense, this was an untested format.''
Mr. Schroeder said Wednesday's session reminded him of televised debates he has studied in France and Spain, where ''the role of the moderator is to set up the topics, then hang back and let the candidates go at it.''
The next debate between Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney will be moderated by Candy Crowley of CNN, who notably did not join the chorus of complainers about Mr. Lehrer's performance on Wednesday night. She credited Mr. Lehrer for trying throughout his moderating career to get candidates to engage with each other.
''In the end, this debate is, you know, brought to you by these candidates,'' she said on CNN after the debate, ''and to me, it's better to hear from the candidates than to hear from the moderator.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jim Lehrer just before the candidates arrived on stage Wednesday night. Fingers were pointing Thursday at the more freewheeling format, and at him. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL DEBATES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CONSERVATISM (72%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012



215 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Gains A New intensity in Debate's Wake

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and PETER BAKER; Mark Landler contributed reporting from Madison, Wis.; Ashley Parker from Fishersville, Va.; and Jeff Zeleny from Denver.

 BODY:
DENVER -- President Obama and Mitt Romney confronted what one feared and the other hoped was an altered campaign on Thursday, pounding new urgency into what was shaping up as a wide-open final sprint to Election Day.
A day after the first debate, in which Mr. Obama was almost universally judged to have underperformed and Mr. Romney to have seized his opportunity, the president resolved to do what he did not do the night before: He went straight at the challenger, arguing forcefully that Mr. Romney's moderate words masked extreme conservative policies.
''The man onstage last night, he does not want to be held accountable for the real Mitt Romney's decisions and what he's been saying for the last year,'' the president said at a rally, looking more energetic than he was at his lectern Wednesday night.
Mr. Romney's senior aides warned staff members and donors that the race was hardly won. But they said the debate reversed the sagging morale of volunteers and contributors and dispelled what had been a growing notion that the race was slipping away from Mr. Romney. 
They said it prompted undecided voters to give Mr. Romney ''a second look,'' as his pollster Neil Newhouse put it. And they said it showed that Mr. Romney could win a head-to-head argument with Mr. Obama on the economy, his campaign's underlying strategy all along.
With roughly a month left, both sides were looking intently ahead to Friday morning, when the government releases unemployment and job creation numbers for September, the next opportunity for one of the candidates to try to seize momentum for the final month.
Reflecting the new intensity of the post-debate landscape, both sides recalibrated their strategies, escalated their advertising campaigns in swing states, and drew huge crowds for rallies.
Greeted by an estimated 10,000 people in Fishersville, Va., Mr. Romney said, ''What you didn't hear last night from the president is why it is the next four years are possibly going to be better than the last four years.''
After leaving Denver, Mr. Obama went to Madison, Wis., where he was met by an estimated crowd of 30,000, the biggest of the campaign so far.
In a display of strength intended to offset Democratic nervousness, Mr. Obama's campaign signaled it had raised well over $114 million in September, its biggest one-month haul this year and a sum that all but ensures its ability to match or exceed advertising and get-out-the-vote spending by Mr. Romney and his allies.
But that did not overcome the rain of questions about how it came to be that the president delivered such a listless showing.
Mr. Obama's aides said he knew he had had a bad night as soon as he came off the stage at the University of Denver. ''I'm sure he drew some lessons from it,'' said David Axelrod, the president's senior adviser.
Advisers, many of whom viewed him as distracted and nervous from the beginning, said the president had approached the debate practice sessions without enough urgency and focus. He has told friends that he respected Mr. Romney's intellect, but had come to view his rival as a less formidable adversary as he learned more about him from reading research books and watching his campaign.
Hours before the debate, advisers said they were worried that during his preparation sessions in a financially distressed resort in Nevada he was frequently interrupted by his presidential duties, and they indicated that they were nervous that he was underprepared. What seemed like an exercise in lowering expectations appeared to be reality at the end of the debate night.
Mr. Axelrod said the president was prepared to talk about what was viewed as Mr. Obama's biggest omission on Wednesday, Mr. Romney's secretly recorded comments at a closed-door fund-raising event about the ''47 percent'' of Americans he described as too reliant on government. While Mr. Axelrod said Mr. Obama simply never found an opportunity, another aide offered another suggestion: To have done so would have given Mr. Romney an opening to undo the political damage of the remarks with a certain, planned answer before a huge television audience of 67.2 million.
In an interview with Sean Hannity of Fox News late Thursday, Mr. Romney said he would have said, ''I said something that's just completely wrong.'' He had previously stood by the substance of the remarks, which he said were stated inelegantly.
In general, advisers suggested that Mr. Obama had prepared for a different Mitt Romney, one who had promoted a conservative message to the Republican base this year and chosen a running mate with a plan to cut deeply into government spending. Instead, he was confronted by a candidate using a softer tone, promising that he would provide plenty of money for education and saying that his tax plan would not reduce the share of taxes paid by the wealthy.
Some of the weaknesses in the president's performance, advisers said, were the result of a strategy of not turning off the narrow slice of swing voters, who are often repelled by personal confrontations.
But none of it explained Mr. Obama's failure at times to defend himself against Mr. Romney's attacks, or why Mr. Obama said, ''On Social Security, we've got a somewhat similar position'' -- a statement that sent up a cheer at Mr. Romney's campaign headquarters in Boston and bewildered Mr. Obama's advisers.
Mr. Romney's aides said they believed that the issue of Social Security -- which Mr. Romney's running mate, Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, has called for overhauling to include private investment accounts -- had been taken off the table for Democratic candidates in the final month of the debate and could not be effectively used as a weapon against Republicans.
Both sides agreed that the evening was likely to rejuvenate Mr. Romney's fund-raising and send wealthy donors back to the ''super PACs'' that have been supporting Mr. Romney all year. Before Wednesday the campaigns were watching carefully for signs that the big money would move into House and Senate races as some lost confidence in Mr. Romney's chances to win.
Aides said they were mostly relieved that Mr. Romney could get back on a solid, offensive footing as he makes a case against Mr. Obama and, perhaps more vitally, for himself. Romney advisers acknowledged that he was, as one said, ''refocusing the debate on certain components of his record'' for a broader fall audience.
His conservative supporters indicated they were willing to abide by that approach, for now. ''There was nothing there to give us great concern,'' Chris Chocola, president of the Club for Growth, the influential conservative group, said of Mr. Romney's debate rhetoric. ''But we'll be watching what he does if he becomes the president.''
Mr. Obama's aides said if there was one silver lining in the night it was that they could seize on what they called inconsistencies between Mr. Romney's stances during the primaries and those of this late campaign period.
Mr. Obama's campaign made an early decision, however, to campaign against Mr. Romney as a conservative, wary that attacking him as equivocal would create an impression with more centrist independent voters that he did not truly hold the right-leaning positions he espoused during the primaries. So several officials suggested they would approach his new tone by suggesting he was not being honest about his plans.
''He may win the Oscar for his performance last night, but he's not going to win the presidency,'' Mr. Axelrod said. But, he conceded, what Mr. Obama really needs to do is deliver a better debate effort when the two meet next, on Oct. 16, at Hofstra University in New York. ''It's like a playoff in sports,'' he said. ''You evaluate after every contest and make adjustments.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE DAY AFTER IN DENVER: President Obama followed up his debate appearance with a rally in the city on Thursday while Mitt Romney greeted police officers who led his motorcade to the airport. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
BRIAN SNYDER/REUTERS) (A1)
 President Obama seemed more energetic at a rally on Thursday in Denver than at the debate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (64%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (68%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012



216 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: Obama Team Tries to Change Course After Debate Disappoints

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and PETER BAKER

 BODY:
DENVER -- President Obama and his team woke up here on Thursday morning confronted by the realization that he lost his first debate by passively letting Mitt Romney control the conversation. Then the president and his advisers resolved to do what he himself did not the night before.
Under fire from fellow Democrats, Mr. Obama came out swinging, accusing Mr. Romney of lying to the American people about his plans for the nation. ''I met this very spirited fellow who claimed to be Mitt Romney,'' Mr. Obama told 12,000 supporters during a lakeside rally. ''But it couldn't be Mitt Romney, because the real Mitt Romney has been running around the country for the last year promising $5 trillion in tax cuts that favor the wealthy. The fellow onstage last night said he didn't know anything about that.'' 
He said the Mr. Romney of the debate wanted to put more teachers in classrooms and claimed not to know companies get tax breaks for outsourcing jobs. ''The man onstage last night, he does not want to be held accountable for the real Mitt Romney's decisions and what he's been saying for the last year,'' the president said. ''And that's because he knows full well that we don't want what he's been selling for the last year.''
The vigorous assault on Mr. Romney suggested just how worried Mr. Obama's campaign has become. The president's advisers concluded that he had lost his first debate by not pressing Mr. Romney enough. After a series of late-night and early-morning consultations, the Obama team decided to try to correct that Thursday with a more aggressive stance, including the rally rhetoric, a new television ad and a conference call questioning Mr. Romney's truthfulness.
David Axelrod, the president's strategist, called Mr. Romney an ''artful dodger'' whose debate comments were ''devoid of honesty,'' ''rooted in deception,'' ''untethered to the truth'' and ''well delivered but fraudulent.''
''Not surprisingly, what we learned is he'll say anything,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''That makes him effective in the short term but vulnerable in the long term.'' He added, ''He may win the Oscar for his performance last night but he's not going to win the presidency.''
The Romney team, feeling rejuvenated, fired back. ''In full damage-control mode, President Obama today offered no defense of his record and no vision for the future,'' said Ryan Williams, a Romney spokesman. ''Rather than a plan to fix our economy, President Obama simply offered more false attacks and renewed his call for job-killing tax hikes.''
In trying to turn the tables on Mr. Romney, the president's team was hoping to salvage a debate performance widely criticized by Democrats and Republicans alike. Aides described Mr. Obama as out of practice at debating and said he made a conscious decision not to bring up some of the campaign's favorite attack lines of recent months, a decision they left little doubt disappointed them.
Now they will have to make what Mr. Axelrod called ''adjustments'' in the president's approach for the next debate on Oct. 16. The ''take-away from this debate,'' he said, was that they ''can't allow someone to stand there and manhandle the truth.''
Mr. Obama's advisers appeared almost to expect a different Mitt Romney to turn up for the debate: the hard-edged conservative who had largely pitched his message to the Republican base. Instead, Mr. Romney softened his rhetoric, promising that his reform of Medicare would not touch benefits for older Americans and praising elements of Mr. Obama's education policy. He also tried to paint the president as a protector of big banks because of the post-financial-crisis government bailout of the banking industry.
Campaign officials said they wished Mr. Obama had called out Mr. Romney on assertions that they said were untrue, although they conceded that some of the weaknesses in the president's performance were simply part of his approach to debates, which is to shy away from highly personal confrontations. The base wants him ''to gut Romney,'' one adviser said, but swing voters hate that and the president was trying to find a balance.
Even so, Democrats questioned why he did not bring up a range of issues they considered favorable to Mr. Obama, including women's rights; Mr. Romney's taxes; the Republican candidate's comments about the ''47 percent'' of Americans who consider themselves ''victims'' dependent on the government; and the record of his former firm, Bain Capital. Some Colorado Democrats leaving the debate seemed despondent at the president's performance and fretted that he had put their state back in play.
''The president did well in terms of substance but I think there were opportunities to hold Governor Romney accountable that may have been missed,'' former Gov. Ted Strickland of Ohio, a close ally of the campaign, said in an interview. ''But you know, it's one debate. There are two more.''
Other Democrats picked up what they saw as Mr. Obama's missed opportunities, assailing Mr. Romney for misleading viewers about his tax plan and other issues. The Center for American Progress, a left-leaning organization, posted what it called ''27 myths'' told in 38 minutes.
A new television ad produced by the Obama campaign for seven swing states showed Mr. Romney denying aspects of his tax plan. ''If we can't trust him here, how could we ever trust him here?'' the ad asks as a picture of the Oval Office comes on screen. ''He was just lying,'' Mr. Strickland said. ''He was fast and loose with the truth.'' The Romney camp countered with the various ways they asserted Mr. Obama misled about the issues during the debate.
Appearing at his morning rally on Thursday, Mr. Obama seemed more energetic than he had the night before. Clad in khakis and a blue Windbreaker, he mocked Mr. Romney in a way he had not during his sober performance on Wednesday night. He singled out Mr. Romney's promise to cut funding for the Public Broadcasting System, including its signature children's character.
''Thank goodness someone is finally getting tough on Big Bird,'' he said. ''We didn't know Big Bird was driving the federal deficit.''
Someone in the crowd shouted, ''Elmo,'' referring to another children's character. ''Elmo too?'' Mr. Obama replied with a laugh.
Mr. Obama's advisers went into the debate recognizing that incumbents often lose their first debate while seeking re-election in part because they have less time to prepare and in part because it is the first time a challenger is onstage as a peer with a president. They also worried that the news media, anxious for a compelling story line, would be primed to write a Romney comeback story.
But what they did not count on was how universally the president would be criticized by Democrats and Republicans alike for his performance. Instead of cementing a sense of inevitability borne out of solid swing-state polls in recent weeks, Mr. Obama has now let Mr. Romney off the mat and given him momentum.
Whether it changes the fundamental dynamics of the campaign remains to be seen. Mr. Obama has outgunned Mr. Romney in advertising in critical states and it is too early to know if the polls will change in a sustained way. The next big moment on the campaign schedule is next week's debate between Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Representative Paul D. Ryan, Mr. Romney's running mate.
But with 33 days left, the president now finds himself entering the final month of the campaign trying to get off the defensive and regain his footing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); TAX LAW (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (62%); OUTSOURCING (52%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012



217 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Wages, Prices, Depressions, Deficits (Wonkish)

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Mind that output gap. 

 BODY:
I mentioned the piece by Capital Economics arguing that policy makers in Britain are greatly understating the output gap, the amount of excess capacity in the economy, which is leading to badly skewed policies. This actually raises a whole set of related issues, with bearing on the US as well. So here's a longish, wonkish discussion. 
So: the starting point here is the official estimate by the Office of Budget Responsibility that Britain right now has an output gap of less than 3 percent. This is a remarkable assertion, when you bear in mind that real GDP remains well below its level pre-crisis, and that we used to think that Britain's long-run growth rate was around 2.5 percent. As the CE guys say, simple trend projection would indicate a shortfall of 14 percent; how did that become less than 3?
Part of the answer is the assertion that the UK economy was operating well above sustainable levels in 2007, even though there were none of the usual signs of overheating. Beyond that, however, is the claim that the financial crisis somehow reduced potential output by a huge amount. As CE says, there is no plausible story about how that might have happened.
But, say the small-gap people, if Britain is deeply depressed relative to potential, we should be seeing deflation, whereas there's actually inflation. Is this a decisive argument?
Well, the great bulk of UK inflation these past few years reflects one-off factors: VAT increases, commodity prices, and import prices. Domestically generated inflation is low, and headline inflation is declining too.
But that's not deflation; shouldn't we be seeing that right now? Indeed, standard textbook Phillips curves do say that if you're below the natural rate of output, you should have falling inflation eventually turning into accelerating deflation. 
Yet there are very good reasons to believe that these standard Phillips curves break down at low inflation, because nominal wage cuts are always and everywhere very hard to demand or accept. 
A side observation: I've always wondered about the numbers one often sees for U.S. average wages in the 1930s, which show a sharp decline in the early part of the Depression. Has wage stickiness been exaggerated? My thought was always that this might be a misleading number, because average earnings might have fallen due to greatly reduced overtime and such rather than through big cuts in basic wages. And it turns out that there is a really early NBER study on just that question; sure enough, the fall in basic wage rates was much less than the fall in average earnings. (Advocates of internal devaluation take heed: even in the Great Depression, US wages fell only about 7 percent before rising again):
Oh, by the way: the failure of wages to fall more was a good thing, not a bad thing.
Back to the main argument: as the CE report says, if you have a false view that excess capacity necessarily leads to accelerating deflation, you can all too easily come to believe that a deeply depressed economy represents a "new normal" that must be adjusted to:
If the Phillips Curve is horizontal over wide ranges of the inflation/unemployment/spare capacity relationship, but policymakers believe that a stable inflation rate means that the economy is operating at its potential, this raises the risk that they will persistently allow the economy to operate below its potential. After all, the conventional signal that this is the case - falling inflation - will not be flashing.
In Britain, this translates both into complacency about monetary and fiscal policy in the short run, and into excessive alarm about the long-run fiscal picture. If you like, Cameron/Osborne are imposing harsh cuts to deal with a fiscal crisis that exists only in their minds, while failing to address a current crisis of inadequate demand that falls into their statistical blind spot.
But it's not just British policy that gets messed up. In America, monetary hawks like James Bullard look at stable inflation and conclude that the Fed is doing fine, failing to appreciate the likely possibility that we have depression-type stability with a massive output gap.
And the preponderance of evidence is that we do indeed have massive output gaps, on both sides of the pond. It's a huge failure of both intellect and will that we allow these gaps to persist.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); INFLATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (85%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); VALUE ADDED TAX (71%); DEVALUATION (66%); IMPORT PRICES (64%); OVERTIME (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012



218 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: Friday Reading: Letting Patients Read the Doctor's Notes

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Entrepreneurs are starting up with fewer employees, American Airlines grounds planes to fix loose seats, and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times. 

 BODY:
 A variety of consumer-focused articles appears daily in The New York Times and on our blogs. Each weekday morning, we gather them together here so you can quickly scan the news that could hit you in your wallet. 

        
When job creation engines stop at just one. (Business)
        
Drug oversight is questioned in a meningitis outbreak. (National)
        
Cheerleaders with Bible verses set off debate. (National)
        
Free contraceptives lower the abortion rate, a study finds.
        
American Airlines grounds planes to fix loose seats. (National)
        
Privacy advocates and advertisers are at odds over Web tracking. (Business)
        
What to look for in Friday's jobs report. (Economix)
        
Facebook tops one billion active users. (Bits)
        
Old mattresses as a trove for recycling. (Green)
        
Letting patients read the doctor's notes. (Well)
        
Punish the louse, not the child. (Motherlode)
        
More answers to readers' questions about scholarships. (The Choice)
        
Road trip, French style, in the United States. (In Transit)
        
Horse meat is taken off menu of a noted Queens restaurant. (Diner's Journal)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); MENINGITIS (71%); RESTAURANTS (65%); ABORTION (55%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (54%); HORSE MEAT (50%) Today in Your Money

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012



219 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Common Core Practice | Floating Buddhas, MacArthur 'Geniuses' and Fracking

BYLINE: SARAH GROSS, JONATHAN OLSEN and THE LEARNING NETWORK


HIGHLIGHT: This week the class we collaborate with for this feature has designed a social media art challenge. They hope you will join in, too. 

 BODY:
Welcome to our third week of Common Core practice prompts, each classroom-created and tested by our teacher-collaborators, Jonathan Olsen and Sarah Gross, and the ninth grade humanities class they team teach.
This week, the class was so inspired by a Times article about an artist's inflatable Buddha sculpture, that they have designed a challenge for students (and adults) everywhere: find a piece of "art" (however you define it) in your own surroundings, and post a photo of it to Twitter with the hashtag #art4me.
They hope to "see how far this project will travel," so consider joining in!
 Common Core Practice Tasks | Week of Oct. 1-5, 2012 
 Narrative Writing 
Arts and Religion: "A Buddha, Full of Air, Sits Serenely On the Waves"
Common Core Standards: R14, RI10, W3, W3d, W4, W10
 Near the shore of the East River in New York City floats a 10-foot-high transparent inflatable Buddha. Why is this Buddha, created by Korean-born visual artist Chang-Jin Lee and named "Floating Echo" sitting serenely on a lily pad in one of the most highly populated cities in the world? In her article about this Buddha, Sharon Otterman blends figurative language, reflection, and vivid word choice to paint a picture for the reader of the art and surrounding park. 
 Your Task: Look around your school, home or community, or think about a place you know well, and choose an object that you would like to call attention to as a piece of art, the way the Socrates Sculpture Park did with the inflatable Buddha. 
Using the first four paragraphs of Sharon Otterman's article as a mentor text, write a paragraph describing the object and surrounding area. You should include figurative language, vivid descriptions, and sensory details.
 Before You Do the Task, You Might ... 

        
Visit Chang-Jin Lee's Web site and learn more about the Floating Buddha.
        
Come up with your own definition of "art."
        
Use the Learning Network lesson plan, "What Is Art? Considering and Creating Artistic Works," to go deeper with this topic. 
 Extension Activity 
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder. Take a picture with your phone or camera of an object that you consider art, or an object that has important meaning to you right now. Post your picture to Twitter under the hashtag: #art4me. Add a caption briefly describing your object and why it is important to you, or why you consider it to be art. We will then see how far this project will travel! Ms. Gross and Mr. Olsen's students will be adding their own pictures this week and spreading the word using social media.
 Informative Writing 
The Arts: "Surprise Grants Transforming 23 More Lives"
Common Core Standards: RI10, W2, W4, W10, WHST9
 What would you do if you won $500,000? The MacArthur Foundation awards "talented individuals who have shown extraordinary originality and dedication in their creative pursuits and a marked capacity for self-direction." The grants, which are awarded annually and cannot be applied for, are for $100,000 per year for five years. 
The winners can work in any creative field ranging from science and medicine to writing and history, and don't have to report how they spend their money. This year's winners include a mandolin player, a documentary filmmaker, a fiction writer, a bioengineer, a historian, and 18 others.
 Your Task: The MacArthur "genius grants" reward "out of the box" thinking in many different disciplines. In a paragraph, propose a dream project that you hope the MacArthur Foundation would help fund.
 Before You Do the Task, You Might ... 

        
Visit the MacArthur Foundation Web site and read about this year's Fellows.
        
Think about what kinds of projects excite you. Can you translate your interests to appeal to a wide audience?
 Extension Activity 
Mr. Olsen and Ms. Gross have started a program in their classroom this year called News With Newsmakers where they have invited innovative thinkers to talk current events with their freshmen students. 
This week, New Jersey Assemblywoman Caroline Casagrande stopped by High Technology High School to discuss today's news with their classes. The students discussed the MacArthur Foundation awards with Assemblywoman Casagrande and asked her what she would do if she won the award. Here is her MacArthur Foundation dream:
I would focus like a laser on using the funds to put more American women on a path to take over S.T.E.M. jobs currently held by foreign workers holding visas throughout the New Jersey tech-belt. The money would be spent to train New Jersey women for employment at these companies and in the process close the gender wage gap that currently exists in the state.
Ask a range of people in your own life what kinds of projects they would create if they were funded to design a creative pursuit.
 Argumentative Writing 
Science and Politics: "Shift by Cuomo on Gas Drilling Prompts Both Anger and Praise"
Common Core Standards: RI1, R14, W1, W1c, W1d, W4, W9b, RH1, RST8, WHST2a
 A means of accessing natural gas reserves, hydraulic fracturing is a topic that many citizens feel strongly about because of its potential environmental and economic impact. Governor of New York Cuomo has spent the past four years authorizing various studies into the health, environmental and economic concerns of this process. 
According to the Times Topics page, hydraulic fracturing is a drilling method, "better known as hydrofracking or fracking, in which large amounts of sand, water and chemicals are injected deep underground at high pressures." Now, after four years, people on both sides of the debate feel that a decision needs to be made. 
 Your Task: Write a letter to the editor of The New York Times explaining whether Governor Cuomo should allow fracking to occur in New York State. Use evidence from the article to support your argument.
 Before You Do the Task, You Might ... 

        
View this video, "Communities Divided Over Natural Gas Drilling," from The Associated Press to learn more about fracking.
        
Use this question and answer column by Times reporter Danny Hakim that explains many of the issues related to hydrofracking in New York.
        
By weighing the pros and cons in the debate, determine your personal feelings about hydrofracking.
        
The Learning Network lesson plan, "Fuel for Debate: Examining the Natural Gas Fracking Controversy," may be a way to take this inquiry further. 
 Extension Activity 
Students can compile their letters to the editor and create a classroom newspaper devoted to the topic, including articles about the science behind hydrofracking and natural gas. Science teachers can become involved in this project by guiding students as they write about the more technical aspects of this debate.

        
Common Core Practice | A King's Skeleton, a Musical Mystery, a Territorial Dispute
        
Introducing an Experiment: Weekly Common Core Practice Prompts
        
Constructing Arguments: 'Room for Debate' and the Common Core Standards
        
Do You Eat Too Quickly?
        
Grants for 'Geniuses'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (89%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (79%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (79%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); VISUAL ARTS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (77%); RELIGION (74%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); POPULATION DENSITY (72%) Buddhism (Des);; Common Core State Standards; Hydraulic Fracturing (Des); MacArthur awards; Common Core; Lesson Plans

COMPANY: LEARNING NETWORK (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2012



220 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bats)

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; baseball

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: After Small Sales Decline This Season, High Prices for Yankees Playoff Tickets

BYLINE: KEN BELSON


HIGHLIGHT: Prices to see the Yankees play in the first round are 42 percent higher than the average price for first-round tickets last season. 

 BODY:
The Mets may have lost five out of six games to the Yankees this year, but they did beat their crosstown rivals in one perverse way: They endured a smaller decline at the turnstiles. The Mets sold 109,793 fewer tickets this year at Citi Field, while the Yankees saw a decline of 111,274.
The Yankees, though, drew far larger crowds, selling 3,542,406 tickets, the second most in the majors after the Phillies. As a result, ticket sales declined just 3 percent, compared with a 4.7 percent decline for the Mets.
Whatever the reasons for their decline in ticket sales - the economy, lack of interest, poor weather - the Yankees are playing when it matters most: the postseason. The average price for a ticket to see them play in the division series at Yankee Stadium is $226.45, according to TiqIQ, a ticket research company. That's 42 percent higher than the average price for first-round tickets last season, when the Yankees played games one, two and five against the Tigers, but 14 percent less than the average price in 2010, when the Yankees faced the Twins in a deciding game three in the Bronx.

        
Yankees Borrow a Page From the Mets
        
Baseball's New Schedule Should Be All About Rivalries
        
Stewart, Yankees Backup Catcher, Gets a Taste of Success
        
Game Times Are Set for First Two Yankees Games
        
Mets Wave Good-Bye, Leaving Fans to Sort It Out

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%) Baseball; New York Mets; New York Yankees

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (94%) New York Mets; New York Yankees

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



221 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Portraits of a Moderate Economy

BYLINE: ECONOMIX EDITORS


HIGHLIGHT: Several recent interviews help capture the essence of economic reports that indicate an improving consumer outlook but some hesitation among businesses about increasing their spending. 

 BODY:
The mostly upbeat jobs data reported on Friday, as Shaila Dewan writes, follow a string of economic reports that indicate consumers are growing a bit stronger and a bit more willing to spend as the housing market stabilizes and as their investments grow. Businesses, however, express more reluctance to spend and hire as they await election results, contemplate the fiscal cliff and the direction of American tax policy, and see weakness abroad. Several recent interviews help capture some of these views.
 Linda Avery 
Ms. Avery, 50, a food service manager from Atlanta, said she felt more optimistic about the economy and was spending more money than she had at the depth of the recession, partly because her daughter recently moved out of the house. For 27 years, she said, she had not left Georgia - but this summer, she took a five-day cruise to Jamaica. "You just feel like things are getting a little better," she said. 
 Rosie Hawkins 
A retired saleswoman in Atlanta, Ms. Hawkins, 75, said she held back on buying new things for a few years even though her income had stayed steady. Her habits changed recently, though, when she bought a freezer, heater, stove and vacuum cleaner. "These were things I put off when the economy was worse," she said. "Now, I feel like it's safer to buy them."

 Harry Kazazian 
Mr. Kazazian, 50, the chief executive of Exxel Outdoors, which makes sleeping bags and camping equipment, said his company was doing well, partly because of a decision to keep some of its manufacturing activities in the United States. "Five years ago it seemed like a bad business decision, but now it's paid off," partly because of wage inflation and uncertainty in China. Still, the company is only gingerly reapproaching capital investments that it put on hold when the economy soured. "We're going in the water - with a life vest," Mr. Kazazian said.
 Michael Peacock 
Mr. Peacock, 43, an Atlanta resident who works in online marketing, said his personal budget remained tight and that his house was in foreclosure. A guitar player, Mr. Peacock said that before the recession he would buy a new guitar each year. "Now, that's out the window," he said. Still, he said work was picking up - he now has enough potential clients that he could be somewhat selective about the projects he accepts.
 Sarah Thurman 
Ms. Thurman, 42, a civil engineer in Kansas City, Kan., who has been out of work since May 2010, said she was still waiting for jobs in her field to return. "The smaller firms are starting to post job openings and that hasn't been like that for over two years, but there's so many of us without jobs that there's so much competition," she said. "I'm hearing from the headhunters that it's going to be opening up, it's going to be opening up - but when?" She has considered lower-paying jobs, but with two toddlers, she must find a job that pays more than the cost of day care, or that allows her to work when her husband, an information technology specialist, is off.

Robbie Brown and Shaila Dewan contributed reporting. 

        
A Recession in Our Minds
        
Rise of the Reluctant Part-Timer Class
        
Good News for the Worst Off
        
From Jack Welch, a Conspiracy Theory
        
What to Look For in Friday's Jobs Report

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); RECESSION (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); INFLATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CAMPING (69%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (68%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (62%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (57%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) consumer confidence; jobs; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Labor and Jobs

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%) GEORGIA, USA (88%); KANSAS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



222 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: Navy Parachutists Land on Roof of Cruise Terminal

BYLINE: PATRICK MCGEEHAN


HIGHLIGHT: Navy SEAL parachutists dropped onto the roof of the Manhattan Cruise Terminal on Saturday morning as part of a ceremony to commission a guided-missile destroyer named for a fallen colleague. 

 BODY:
Civilians can arrive at the Manhattan Cruise Terminal by land or by sea, but only Navy parachutists are cleared to land on the roof, as some did on Saturday morning.
 The occasion for this nearly unprecedented stunt was a 10 a.m. ceremony to commission the U.S.S. Michael Murphy, a guided-missile destroyer named after a former member of the Navy SEALs from Patchogue, N.Y., who died in combat in Afghanistan in 2005. The secretary of the Navy, Ray Mabus, was on hand when Lt. Murphy's mother, Maureen, gave the order to "man our ship and bring her to life."
 To add flair to the festivities, members of the Navy Parachute Team, known as the Leap Frogs, jumped from a helicopter and landed on top of the cruise terminal on the West Side Highway at 48th Street. The New York City Economic Development Corporation, which manages the terminal, had never allowed it to serve as a landing zone before the Leap Frogs made a trial jump on Friday, a spokesman for the agency said on Friday.
 The Navy said that the 509-foot-long ship, which will have a crew of 279, was capable of fighting "air, surface and subsurface battles simultaneously." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NAVIES (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); SKYDIVING (90%); CRUISES (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%) Manhattan Cruise Terminal; Mabus, Ray; Murphy, Michael; Parachutes and Parachute Jumping; Navy Seals; Manhattan (NYC); Manhattan

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (93%) Navy Seals

PERSON: Mabus, Ray; Murphy, Michael

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); AFGHANISTAN (70%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



223 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Romney's Threat to Big Bird Sows Confusion Abroad, and Feeds It at Home

BYLINE: ROBERT MACKEY


HIGHLIGHT: After Mitt Romney appeared to suggest that the beloved "Sesame Street" character Big Bird was surplus to requirements in Wednesday's debate, viewers around the world wondered how targeting a popular children's character could be a vote-winner. 

 BODY:
Video from Le Monde of Mitt Romney's promise to cut the federal subsidy for public broadcasting during Wednesday's debate.
Mitt Romney's promise, during Wednesday debate, to cut into America's debt by ending the federal subsidy for public broadcasting generated an Internet backlash, and at least one popular new Twitter account, largely because the former management consultant appeared to suggest that the beloved "Sesame Street" character Big Bird was surplus to requirements.
Mitt Romney favors Wall Street over Sesame Street
- Fired Big Bird (@FiredBigBird)4 Oct 12
Mr. Romney's decision to run against Big Bird gladdened American conservatives, who have long complained of a liberal bias on public television and radio channels, but puzzled many viewers abroad, where local versions of the educational program are popular and well respected. In France, Le Monde reported that the slight against le Gros Oiseau threatened to spiral into "l'affaire Big Bird," after President Obama -- experiencing a certain esprit d'escalier -- came up, a day late, with the retort: "Thank goodness somebody is finally getting tough on Big Bird. It's about time. We didn't know that Big Bird was driving the federal deficit." 
The German magazine Der Spiegel explained to readers that Mr. Romney's threat to the character that viewers of "Sesamstrasse" know as Bibo generated a Twitter-Sturm during the debate that reached maximum intensity in just 20 minutes.
A sad day for Bibo, the German version of Big Bird.
In a useful roundup of the comic images of an unemployed Big Bird circulating on social networks, the Brazilian newspaper O Globo reported, somewhat inaccurately, that Mr. Romney had tried to soften the blow by first telling viewers, "I love Garibaldo," which is the name the character goes by in "Vila Sésamo."
Garibaldo, star of the funkier Brazilian version of "Sesame Street."
At least some of the confusion among viewers watching the debate from outside the United States centered on the question of how Mr. Romney expected to get votes by pledging to eliminate state support for televised educational programming, and news, which is taken for granted in much of the developed world. 
As Joshua Keating explained in a post for Foreign Policy, scholars at New York University reported last year that Americans spend far less per capita on public broadcasting than a representative sample of 13 other nations, including France, Britain, Germany, Japan, Australia and Canada. 
Even factoring in money provided by states and local governments, Americans pay less than $4 a year for the television and radio programming they get from PBS and NPR. Canadians and Australians pay about 8 times more per capita, the French and Japanese 14 times more, Britons 24 times more and Germans 41 times more.
In a statement decrying Mr. Romney's comments, PBS noted, "The federal investment in public broadcasting," about $500 million a year, "equals about one one-hundredth of one percent of the federal budget." 
You should read the statement released by our bosses at PBS! http://t.co/oD8Ek5lP
- FiredBert (@FiredBert)5 Oct 12
In the context of the debate, though, what is probably more important than the fact that Americans actually pay a relatively small amount of money for public broadcasting is evidence that they are convinced that they are paying a lot more. 
As Politico reported, "Most Americans think public broadcasting receives a much larger share of the federal budget than it actually does," according to a poll conducted for CNN last year. The results of that survey, which asked respondents to estimate what share of the federal budget was spent on certain programs, found that just 27 percent of Americans knew that the money for PBS and NPR was less than 1 percent of government spending. Remarkably, 40 percent guessed that the share was between 1 and 5 percent and 30 percent said it was in excess of 5 percent -- including 7 percent who said that more than half of the federal budget was spent on television and radio broadcasts.
Asked if the spending on PBS and NPR should change, 53 percent called for it to be increased or stay the same, while just 16 percent said it should be eliminated entirely.
It might seem strange for anyone who knows that the federal government spends so little on PBS to begin a discussion of necessary cuts there, but perhaps Mr. Romney has calculated that the undecided voters he is chasing might be among the three-quarters of the American population that thinks the subsidy is far larger than it is.
A spokeswoman for PBS, Anne Bentley, told USA Today that the Congressional subsidy does not go to PBS or NPR, but to local stations around the United States that pay fees in exchange for broadcast rights to their programs, which are produced with donations and revenue from other sources. Ms. Bentley added that Congressional support accounts for up to 50 percent of the operating budgets for some local stations in rural areas. "They're really in jeopardy of going dark if they don't receive funding," Ms. Bentley said.
Big Bird: My bed time is usually 7:45, but I was really tired yesterday and fell asleep at 7! Did I miss anything last night?
- Sesame Street (@sesamestreet)4 Oct 12
The producers of "Sesame Street" offered a comic tweet in the voice of Big Bird the morning after the debate, and a statement explaining that while they are "a nonpartisan, nonprofit, educational organization," they are also "dependent on PBS to distribute our commercial-free educational programming to all children in the United States." 
Without support from the public, educational programming would be interrupted by commercials and need to take the concerns of advertisers for higher ratings into account.
As Alyssa Rosenberg noted on the liberal Web site Think Progress, Mr. Romney has been talking about Big Bird on the campaign trail. In an exchange with a voter concerned about the federal debt caught on camera by CNN in Iowa last December, he said: "I'm going to say PBS is going to have to have advertisement. We're not going to kill Big Bird, but Big Bird's going to have advertisements."
It's only been two days and I can't remember a single specific thing about the Presidential debate besides Big Bird.
- Marc Lynch (@abuaardvark)5 Oct 12

        
Campaigns Turn to Stars to Get Out the Vote
        
Video of an Emotional Obama Is Last Act of Social Media Campaign
        
Israeli Left Mocks 'Bibi's Bet on Romney'
        
Election Monitoring in the Age of Social Media
        
How the Presidential Campaign Is Being Viewed Around the World

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (93%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); PUBLIC RADIO (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); LIBERAL MEDIA (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); CONSERVATISM (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (61%) Debates (Political); Federal Budget (US); National Public Radio; Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2012; Public Broadcasting; Public Broadcasting Service; Romney, Mitt; Sesame Street (TV Program); United States; americas; Europe; News; u.s.; world

COMPANY: GLOBO PLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (84%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (84%) National Public Radio; Public Broadcasting Service

TICKER: GBO (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (86%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (90%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2012



224 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Report Brings Unexpected Good News for Obama

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT and MARK LANDLER


HIGHLIGHT: Economists will spend the rest of the day parsing the report's numbers, but there is little question that the overall thrust is positive - for the economy and the president. 

 BODY:
 11:56 a.m. | Updated After a lackluster debate, President Obama faced the prospect of a second piece of bad political news with Friday morning's jobs report. Instead, Mr. Obama - and the economy - received some unexpected good news.
Economists will spend the rest of the day parsing the numbers and arguing over exactly the best way to describe the report, but there is little question about its overall thrust: positive.
An energized President Obama, appearing at a campaign rally outside Washington, seized on the news, saying "this country has come too far to turn back."
Speaking to 1,935 supporters at George Mason University a few hours after the numbers were released, Mr. Obama said, "This morning, we found out that the unemployment rate has fallen to its lowest level since I took office. More Americans entered the work force; more people are getting jobs."
The rate dropped sharply, to 7.8 percent from 8.1 percent, because the Labor Department's survey of households showed a large gain in the number of employed people in September. The survey of businesses showed a smaller gain, but it also showed that hiring gains in July and August were larger than expected.
Mr. Obama conceded that too many Americans were still out of work. But he turned the good economic news into a rallying cry against his opponent, Mitt Romney, lashing him to the policies of the George W. Bush administration.
"We've made too much progress to return to the policies that led to the crisis in the first place," the president said to a chorus of cheers in an auditorium here. He added, "I won't allow that to happen."
But Mitt Romney sought to deny Mr. Obama even the semblance of a victory lap, declaring, that "this is not what a real recovery looks like. We created fewer jobs in September than in August, and fewer jobs in August than in July, and we've lost over 600,000 manufacturing jobs since President Obama took office."
Campaigning in Abingdon, Va., Mr. Romney said the unemployment rate has declined because people have given up looking for work, and are no longer counted in the rate.
"If you just give up and say, 'Look I can't go back to work, I'm just going to stay home,' " he said, "why you're no longer part of the employment statistics. So it looks like unemployment is getting better, but the truth is, if the same share of people were participating in the workforce today as on the day the president got elected, our unemployment rate would be around 11 percent."
At this point in the presidential race, any single unemployment report is unlikely to have a major effect on the campaign. Friday's report does not change the basic story line about the economy: it remains weak, and it continues to grow at a modest pace. The recovery from the financial crisis continues, but it will take a long time before the economy feels healthy.
For Mr. Obama, however, a fundamental change in the contours of the race is not the goal. Polls have consistently shown him with a small lead. The worry among his campaign advisers is that Mr. Romney's strong performance in Wednesday's debate and Mr. Obama's weak one have the potential to be a watershed.
That concern no doubt remains, but it would have been all the stronger if the jobs report had been weaker.
Mr. Obama, in an interview shortly after his election, said that if unemployment remained above 8 percent, he was unlikely to win a second term. And a standard component of Mr. Romney's case against Mr. Obama, on the campaign trail and in his advertising, is the fact that the unemployment rate had remained above 8 percent. Friday's report changes that, causing the rate to fall to its lowest level since January 2009, shortly before Mr. Obama took office. (The report covers the middle of each month, before a new president is inaugurated on Jan. 20.)
For all the numbers in the report, the simple summary is that more people had jobs last month than economists expected.
In a note to clients, Jim O'Sullivan, the chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, a research firm, called it "a much stronger report than expected."
The Labor Department's monthly survey of households showed a net gain of 873,000 jobs, a huge number that almost certainly reflects some statistical noise. That gain was the main reason for the sharp drop in the unemployment rate. Of the gain, 582,000 of the jobs came among part-time workers who wanted to be working full time.
The monthly survey of businesses showed a gain of only 114,000 jobs, which is in the broad range of the number needed merely to keep up with population growth. But each monthly jobs report also updates the numbers from the previous two months, as the Labor Department economists receive more detailed information.
This month, that information showed that the economy gained 86,000 more jobs in July and August than previously thought, ameliorating earlier worries about a slowdown in August hiring.
Combining the revisions with the September numbers, the new jobs report effectively shows a gain of 200,000 jobs in the business survey. In both the household survey and business survey, that is, the overall gain in full-time jobs was stronger than expected.
In the last 12 months, the economy has gained an average of 150,000 jobs a month. It gained an average of 85,000 in 2010, and in 2009, it lost an average of 422,000.
At the current pace of hiring, the economy remains years away from an unemployment rate that economists consider healthy. Mr. Obama has emphasized that the economy is moving in the right direction after a severe financial crisis, while Mr. Romney has emphasized that it has improved more slowly than many voters hoped or than Mr. Obama predicted.
The surprisingly strong report led to suggestions from some Republicans on Friday morning that Labor Department economists were manipulating the numbers for Mr. Obama's benefit. On Twitter, Jack Welch, a Romney supporter and the former chief executive of General Electric, wrote: "Unbelievable jobs numbers ... these Chicago guys will do anything ... can't debate so change numbers."
Many economists of both parties believe such accusations are false. The Labor Department economists who compile the jobs report are not political appointees.
"Most economic data are nonsense" from month to month, Ian Shepherdson, an independent economist, wrote on Twitter, meaning that they contain a large amount of statistical noise. "But that does not mean it is rigged. We aren't talking about Soviet tractor output here."
 Michael Barbaro and Ashley Parker contributed reporting. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%) Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; Labor Department (US); The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



225 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Good News for the Worst Off

BYLINE: FLOYD NORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: The really impressive figures in the jobs report were in the categories of people who have suffered the most. 

 BODY:
The American economy may be starting to help some of those who need it the most.
The overall unemployment rate fell in September to 7.8 percent from 8.1 percent a month earlier. But the really impressive figures were in the categories of people who have suffered the most.
The jobless rate among people with college degrees was unchanged at 4.1 percent. But the rate among high school dropouts fell to 11.3 percent, the lowest figure for that group in nearly four years. It has declined by 1.4 percentage points over the last two months.
Similarly, the number of people who have been out of work for more than six months fell below five million for the first time since mid-2009. It peaked at 6.7 million in the spring of 2010.
None of those numbers are good, but they show real improvement, even if we should remember the household survey, on which the unemployment numbers are based, can be volatile. And the establishment report found 114,000 jobs were added during the month, in sharp contrast to the 873,000 additional people with jobs found in the household survey.

How can that be? The Obama haters are already screaming that the unemployment figure must have been manipulated. Jack Welch, the former General Electric chief executive, said on Twitter that "these Chicago guys" can't debate, "so they change numbers."
The two surveys often diverge. One is of employers, who are asked how many workers they have. The other is of households, who are asked which members of their households are working. If both surveys were perfect, there would still be differences, as self-employed people get counted in the household survey but not the other one, and people with two jobs get counted twice in the employer survey. Over time, however, they tend to even out.
A year ago, the the establishment numbers were looking better than the household numbers. Now the reverse is true. Over the last 12 months, the household report shows an additional 2.9 million people working. Over the same span, the establishment report says 1.8 million jobs were added, although the Labor Department has already said that figure would be revised upward in due course.
Over the last 24 months, however, the two reports are virtually identical, showing an additional 3.6 million jobs and workers. 
You have to wonder why, if the Obama administration were going to fake numbers, it would choose the less-widely watched household survey. And you have to wonder why anyone would think the bureaucrats in the Bureau of Labor Statistics would follow such orders without any leaks from whistle-blowers.
Actually, it should come as no surprise that Mr. Welch would think bureaucrats would willingly change numbers. That evidently used to happen routinely at G.E. As I quoting James Martin, a Jesuit priest who found his calling after graduating from the Wharton School and working at G.E. in the early 1980s: 
"The primary task of my first job was to issue very long, monthly statistical reports," he wrote in his book, "In Good Company: The Fast Track From the Corporate World to Poverty, Chastity and Obedience." "The first month," he recalled, "I informed one executive that our results were coming in low" because of losses in overseas operations.
"So what?" replied the executive. "Just reverse a few journal entries." Corporate headquarters, he explained, would come down hard on them if they missed the numbers.
Another boss told him he was "taking those accounting courses way too seriously."

        
From Jack Welch, a Conspiracy Theory
        
Explaining the Big Gain in Job-Getters
        
What to Look For in Friday's Jobs Report
        
Rise of the Reluctant Part-Timer Class
        
What the Jobs Numbers Mean for Fed Policy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); STATISTICS (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (71%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (57%); EXECUTIVES (51%) Jack Welch; jobs; jobs report; September 2012 jobs report; Unemployment; Welch, John F Jr; Labor and Jobs; United States Economy

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: JACK WELCH (89%); JOHN K WELCH (89%); BARACK OBAMA (50%) Welch, John F Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



226 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: What's the Best Climate Question to Debate?

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: What's the right climate debate? 

 BODY:
A lot of the post-debate buzz about President Obama's soporific performance (as Jon Stewart made clear, it was not the Denver altitude!) may have been rendered moot by today's jobs data. But there's still plenty to discuss.
As you undoubtedly know, despite a blitz of signature drives and online chatter (centered on the Twittter hashtag #climatesilence), there was no mention of global warming in the presidential debate on domestic issues. (Bill Becker, the executive director of the Presidential Climate Action Project, offers some reasoned thoughts on that gap here.)
On Twitter, I argued that this would have been the wrong venue for such a debate question because the most consequential impacts from climate extremes (whatever mix of forces triggered them) and the vast majority of growth in greenhouse-gas emissions are outside United States borders. Global warming, both in its most significant drivers and consequences, remains a global issue.
Of course that doesn't mean there's nothing to focus on domestically; there are huge opportunities to spur advances in low-carbon energy technologies and energy conservation that could pass muster with a broad range of Americans. And building resilience to climate extremes -- from drought to flooding to destructive storms -- is a nonpartisan no brainer.
But in the context of greenhouse-driven climate change, too much of a focus on domestic policies or legislation can obscure bigger realities: 
In Australia, for example, a domestic carbon price has been set but carbon exports (Australian coal flowing to Asia) aren't counted.
Consider this Financial Times headline: "U.S. coal exports to Europe soar." While campaigners have focused on stopping coal export projects in the Pacific Northwest targeting Chinese demand, there's a boom in American coal exports to Europe (hey, wasn't Europe a leading supporter of the Kyoto Protocol?).
A driving force for coal in Europe is the combination of low prices for carbon permits and resistance to expanded natural gas drilling. The result? While the United States is shutting down old coal-fired power plants and not building new ones, Europe -- also because of the commitment in Germany to get out of nuclear power -- is moving back to coal.
There are two more presidential debates with a mix of foreign and domestic policies. What would you ask, if there's a chance for a question related to climate and energy?
One question from me would be:
While persistent and deep uncertainty surrounds the most important potential impacts from and responses to greenhouse-driven global warming (see David Roberts, Michael Levi and this list of reviewed research for more), the long-term picture of a profoundly changed Earth is clear. What do you see as the best mix of achievable policies to limit environmental and economic regrets?

        
Debating the Facts on 'Green Energy'
        
A Deeper Look at China, Coal and CO2
        
Can the U.S. and Australia Slake China's Coal Thirst and Still Claim CO2 Progress?
        
Can China Follow U.S. Shift from Coal to Gas?
        
The Tussle Between Energy and Ecology Moves to the Australian Outback

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); COAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); COAL INDUSTRY (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (73%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (73%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (69%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (68%); POWER PLANTS (68%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (53%) Australia; Carbon Dioxide; Coal; Debates (Political); Energy Efficiency; Europe; Financial Times; Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; International Trade and World Market; Nuclear Energy; Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2012; Romney, Mitt; United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change; United States; Climate Change; energy; environmental policy; politics

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (59%) Financial Times

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRALIA (94%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%) Australia; Europe; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



227 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Off the Dribble)

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; basketball

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: In New Garden Exhibit, It's All About the Presidents

BYLINE: KEN BELSON


HIGHLIGHT: A new exhibit at Madison Square Garden will showcase presidential moments, from F.D.R. to J.F.K. to George W. Bush. 

 BODY:
New Yorkers might be forgiven for feeling left out of the presidential campaign. With the state considered firmly in President Obama's column, the candidates have spent little time campaigning in the city, other than attending the occasional fund-raiser or making a speech at the United Nations.
But there was a day when New York was very much at the center of presidential politics because of the state's relatively large population and the city's outsize role in the economy. New York produced presidents, too, like Theodore and Franklin Delano Roosevelt, as well as presidential candidates including Alfred E. Smith and Thomas Dewey.
Over the years, Madison Square Garden has been where most presidents and aspiring presidents have spoken because the arena was large and centrally located. In addition to hosting political conventions in 1924, 1976, 1980, 1992 and 2004, the Garden has been the stage for presidential speeches and even birthday celebrations, the most famous of which came in 1962, when John F. Kennedy held a fund-raiser that featured Marilyn Monroe singing "Happy Birthday to You" to him.
The Madison Square Garden Company, which runs the building, will honor these presidential visits as part of its continuing renovation of the arena. Next week, the first of the building's 20 "Defining Moments" will be unveiled, complete with special exhibits on the sixth-floor concourse. Two of the first 10 moments are Monroe's salute to J.F.K. and Bill Clinton's presidential nomination in 1992.
The Garden will also install 366 smaller displays commemorating a special event from each day of the year chosen from among the 132 years of events since the first Garden opened.
"This phase of the transformation will preserve and celebrate the great history that has made the Garden such a special place for the more than 4 million people who walk through our doors annually," said Hank Ratner, chief executive of the Madison Square Garden Company.
There were plenty of other big moments, including in 1924, when the Democrats held a 16-day convention, the longest ever, that ended with the nomination of John W. Davis. Days before the election in 1936, President Franklin D. Roosevelt held a rally at the Garden, which was then on Eighth Avenue between 49th and 50th Streets. In 1940, Mayor Fiorello La Guardia endorsed Roosevelt for a third term at the Garden.
Wendell Wilkie, who lost to Roosevelt in 1940, held a civil rights rally at the Garden in 1943. Five years later, President Harry S. Truman spoke there days before upsetting Dewey, who was then the governor of New York. In 1976 and 1980, Jimmy Carter won the Democratic nomination at the Garden, where he fended off challenges from Ted Kennedy and others.
In 2004, the Republicans held their first and only convention in New York, chosen partly to remind voters of President George W. Bush's response to the terrorist attacks three years before.
Alas, presidential visits to the Garden are more intermittent these days. The electoral landscape has changed and New York is rarely up for grabs in presidential elections. Still, the Garden's place in presidential history remains firm.
"It was a different time, when New York mattered on the political stage," said Nick Ragone, who has written several books about presidents. "Now, it's simply about what media market you need to saturate to win. The conventions are less about the venue and more about the state."

        
Season Tickets for Knicks and Rangers Are Nearly Sold Out
        
A Glimpse Into the Garden's Future
        
Home Court Advantage or Burden for the Underachieving Knicks?
        
Knicks and Rangers Fans to See Higher Ticket Prices
        
In 3-D Broadcast, Big Is Bigger, But Eyes Grow Weary

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%) Carter, Jimmy; Clinton, Bill; Dewey, Thomas E Jr; Kennedy, Edward M; Kennedy, John Fitzgerald; Madison Square Garden; Monroe, Marilyn; Obama, Barack; Presidents and Presidency (US); Roosevelt, Franklin Delano; Smith, Alfred Emanuel; Truman, Harry S

COMPANY: MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CO (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%) Madison Square Garden

TICKER: MSG (NASDAQ) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (69%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (69%)

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); JIMMY CARTER (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); BILL CLINTON (73%) Carter, Jimmy; Clinton, Bill; Dewey, Thomas E Jr; Kennedy, Edward M; Kennedy, John Fitzgerald; Monroe, Marilyn; Obama, Barack; Roosevelt, Franklin Delano; Smith, Alfred Emanuel; Truman, Harry S

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



228 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Oct. 5: Day After Debate, Strong Swing State Polls for Romney

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: On Friday, Mitt Romney had his best day in state-level polling since at least the party conventions, something that very probably reflects improvement in his standing following the debate on Wednesday. 

 BODY:
On Friday, Mitt Romney had his best day in state-level polling since at least the party conventions, something that very probably reflects improvement in his standing following the presidential debate in Denver on Wednesday.
Two automated polling firms, Rasmussen Reports and We Ask America, released polls in Ohio, Florida and Virginia on Friday. All of these polls were conducted on Thursday, the day after the Denver debate.
In the Rasmussen Reports polls, Mr. Romney trailed President Obama by 1 point in Ohio. But he led him by 1 point in Virginia and by 2 points in Florida.
These are very good numbers for Mr. Romney as compared with the ones we were seeing recently, although part of that is because Rasmussen has shown more favorable numbers for him in these states throughout the year. As compared with Rasmussen Reports' previous polls of the same states, the margin in Ohio held steady, but Mr. Romney gained 2 points in Virginia and 4 in Florida, for an average gain of 2 points among the three states.
The We Ask America polls suggested that Mr. Romney made much larger gains. He led in all three states in its polls -- and gained an average of 7 points from We Ask America's prior polling of the same states.

Mr. Romney's bounce has been less apparent in national tracking polls so far. The Rasmussen Reports national tracking poll held steady, showing a 2-point lead for Mr. Obama. Mr. Obama actually gained 1 point in the Gallup national tracking poll, however, and about 1.5 percentage points in the online tracking poll conducted by the RAND Corporation.
Another online tracking poll, from Ipsos, suggested a strong trend for Mr. Romney, however. 
The Ipsos polls are confusing because Ipsos has released polls covering various time intervals in the past few days, but they tell a potentially interesting story if you work through them carefully. 
In a poll of about 500 voters that Ipsos conducted immediately after the debate, late Wednesday night and early Thursday morning, Mr. Obama still led by 5 points. However, Mr. Obama's lead was just 2 points in a poll Ipsos released Friday, which included interviews from Monday night (before the debate) through Friday morning.
The inference I make from these Ipsos polls is that Mr. Romney must have polled very well in the most recent interviews it conducted, late Thursday and early Friday morning, quite possibly leading Mr. Obama, in order to have made up so much ground.
It may have been that Mr. Obama's problems were growing worse throughout the day on Thursday as criticism of his debate performance was amplified. That would also help to explain Mr. Romney's very strong performance in the We Ask America polls on Thursday.
Of course, the Rasmussen Reports polls were also conducted on Thursday, and Mr. Romney made more modest gains there. It is harder to make inferences from the RAND Corporation and Gallup tracking polls, because they use lengthy seven-day field periods and conducted only one full day of interviewing after the debates. But the fact that Mr. Romney actually lost ground in those polls is not very consistent with the 7-point bounce that the We Ask America polls imply, even considering that most of its data was predebate.
Polling trends can sometimes be odd in reaction to news events. One factor is that supporters of a particular candidate may be more enthusiastic, and more inclined to respond to surveys, after he gets a favorable development in the news cycle. The methodology that a pollster applies, particularly its likely voter model, may amplify or mitigate these effects.
The We Ask America polls, for instance, had a lot of voters who identified as Republican in their samples. I don't think there's necessarily anything wrong with that -- I'd rather that pollsters give the most honest snapshot of what they were finding in the field on the day that they conducted their interviews. Part of the reason that critiques about "oversampling" Democrats or Republicans are misguided is because the party identification breakouts themselves provide interesting information. It's logical to conclude, for instance, that Republicans may have been especially likely to respond to pollsters after Mr. Romney's strong debate performance. That would also explain why Mr. Romney's bounce was more modest in the Rasmussen Reports polls, as they weight their samples by party identification (a poor methodological choice, in my view), which may dampen the enthusiasm effect.
There is another type of polling bias, however, which is potentially more relevant when there is polling after a major development in the news cycle. Namely, polls are very probably biased toward high-information voters who take more interest in the news and are more likely to respond to political surveys. This issue may be more profound in automated polls, which have especially low response rates -- often only 3 or 4 percent of the people they call respond to them.
So it's hard to distinguish a genuine shift toward Mr. Romney, from a real but potentially temporary shift based on changes in voter enthusiasm, from an artificial change caused by a bias toward heavy news consumers.
But now there's another complication: the government reported a strong jobs report on Friday, which changed the tone of the news cycle. To the extent that the polls reflected people's reaction to the news coverage of the debate as much as the debate itself, the jobs report could blunt some of Mr. Romney's momentum if the tenor of news coverage changes.
The FiveThirtyEight forecast did show a clear shift toward Mr. Romney on Friday, giving him a 15.1 percent chance of winning the Electoral College -- up from 12.9 percent on Thursday.
My subjective view is that, despite the somewhat mixed messages that the polls gave about the magnitude of Mr. Romney's bounce, this is still too conservative. The forecast model is pretty "smart" about distinguishing random movements in the polls from real ones, and so can be fairly conservative in interpreting the data. However, it does not have the advantage of knowing that the shifts may have come for a good reason -- in this case, Mr. Romney's strong performance in the debate. 
So I would bet on Mr. Romney right now given the odds the model offers -- but I'd have done so more confidently before the morning's jobs report. 
It's going to take a few more days for the forecast model to catch up to the news, and I don't think there's any alternative but to keep an open mind about the polls for right now.

        
First Debate Often Helps Challenger in Polls
        
Sept. 27: The Impact of the '47 Percent'
        
In Connecticut, Wall Street Community May Limit Obama Victory
        
Sept. 8: Conventions May Put Obama in Front-Runner's Position
        
Aug. 28: A Moment of Polling Clarity

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); POLITICS (76%) barack obama; mitt romney; Presidential Debates; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012; RAND Corp; Rasmussen Reports; Ipsos; Politics; Polling; projection update

COMPANY: RAND CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: RAND Corp; Rasmussen Reports

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (90%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



229 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: Getting the Number Wrong

BYLINE: FLOYD NORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney said there were 23 million Americans struggling to find work. But some of the groups in the calculation may have been counted twice. 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney that there were 23 million Americans struggling to find work. It looks as if he got that wrong, by engaging in a little double counting. The real number is around 21 million.
The just-released Labor Department report for September says there are 12,088,000 people classified as unemployed, meaning they looked for a job during the previous month and did not find one. That is the seasonally adjusted figure. The actual number the department estimated was 11,742,000. 
There are no seasonally adjusted numbers for the other groups that could conceivably fit into the category -- people not in the labor force who say they would like work if they could find it and people classified as "marginally attached" to the labor force.
There are 6,427,000 people counted as out of the labor force but wanting to work, and 2,517,000 classified as marginally attached.
Add them together, and use the higher (seasonally adjusted) figure for unemployment, and you get 21,032,000. If you were trying to be fair and compare apples to apples, you'd used all numbers before seasonal adjustment, and get 20,686,000.
Either way, that is a long way from 23 million. 
So where did the rest come from? My guess is that Mr. Romney's aides looked at Table A-16 of the release. That shows the 2,517,000 "marginally attached," and breaks them into two groups. The first is 802,000 discouraged workers, and the rest -- 1,715,000 -- are classified as people who are deemed to be marginally attached but are not discouraged workers. That includes people who were ill or had school or family responsibilities that kept them from looking for work. If you add those two groups to the whole, then the number gets to be over 23 million. But that would represent a misreading of the figures.
Even if Mr. Romney had done his arithmetic correctly, it would be a stretch to say there were 21 million people "struggling to find work." Of the 6.4 million who said they were not in the labor force but would work if they could, 3.3 million said they had not actually tried to find a job in the last year.

        
Explaining the Big Gain in Job-Getters
        
Forecasting Unemployment
        
A Lift for the Worst Off
        
From Jack Welch, a Conspiracy Theory
        
What to Look For in Friday's Jobs Report

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); STATISTICS (61%) 2012 election; Bureau of Labor Statistics; jobs; jobs report; Labor Department; Mitt Romney; presidential campaign; September 2012 jobs report; Unemployment; Romney, Mitt; Labor and Jobs; United States Economy; Labor Department (US)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Labor Department (US)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



230 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: Romney Says Jobs Numbers Are Not True Sign of Growth

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney sought to play down the latest jobs numbers - a 7.8 percent unemployment rate, the lowest since 2009 - telling the crowd that the rate had come down "very, very slowly." 

 BODY:
ABINGDON, Va. - Mitt Romney sought to play down the latest jobs numbers - a 7.8 percent unemployment rate, the lowest since 2009 - at stop in coal country here, telling the crowd that the rate had come down "very, very slowly." The improving employment numbers, he said, were the result of people dropping out of the work force and not a true sign of job growth.
"The reason it's come down this year is primarily due to the fact that more and more people have just stopped looking for work," Mr. Romney said. "The truth is, if the same share of people were participating in the work force today as on the day the president got elected, our unemployment rate would be around 11 percent."
An unemployment rate of 8 percent had become something of Mr. Romney's economic "red line" on the campaign trail, where he liked to remind voters how many months it had been since the rate had fallen below that mark, and attack President Obama over his promise that, with the stimulus, he would get the rate below 8 percent. But on Friday, as the unemployment rate dropped from 8.1 percent to 7.8 percent - the first time in nearly four years- Mr. Romney refused to cede any ground to the president.
"The reason it's come down this year is primarily due to the fact that more and more people have just stopped looking for work," he said. "And if you just dropped out of the work force, if you just give up and say, 'Look, I can't go back to work, I'm just going to stay home,' if you just drop out all together, why you're no longer part of the employment statistics, so it looks like unemployment is getting better."

He added: "When I'm president of the United states - when I'm president of the United States - that unemployment rate is going to come down not because people are giving up and dropping out of the work force but because we're creating more jobs."
The Obama campaign was quick to hit back.
"At his Virginia event today, Mitt Romney talked down the economic progress we're making, but the truth is that businesses have added 5.2 million jobs over the past two and a half years, and the unemployment rate is now at its lowest levels since January 2009," said Lis Smith, an Obama campaign spokeswoman, in an e-mail statement. "Romney won't tell the truth because he knows his plans would pummel the middle class, taking us back to the same failed policies that caused the collapse and record job losses in the first place. In fact, independent economists say his plans would not create jobs, could slow the recovery, and could actually cost us two million jobs over the next two years."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%) Romney, Mitt; Labor and Jobs; Presidential Election of 2012; Virginia; Elections

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (73%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Virginia

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



231 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Frenemies: A Love Story

BYLINE: THOMAS P. O'NEILL


HIGHLIGHT: Tip O'Neill and Ronald Reagan fought tooth and nail - until the American people needed compromise. 

 BODY:
Boston
TO paraphrase a sometime-friend of my father: "There they go again."
Twice in their debate on Wednesday, President Obama and Mitt Romney brought up the names of my father, Tip O'Neill, and Ronald Reagan, the Republican icon, asserting that the relationship between Reagan and my father, a Democrat who was speaker of the House for most of Reagan's presidency, should serve as a model for how political leaders can differ deeply on issues, and yet work together for the good of the country.
It is not a new idea. As Washington has become increasingly partisan, and increasingly deadlocked, a misty aura has grown around the O'Neill and Reagan years. That mist obscures some hard truths - and harder words.
Let's not forget my father's blunt descriptions of his ideological opposite as "Herbert Hoover with a smile" or "a cheerleader for selfishness." He referred to the village of Reagan's Irish forebears - Ballyporeen - as "the valley of the small potatoes." Two phrases I often heard him use about Reagan: "Trust, but verify," and "Love the sinner, hate the sin." My father was not pleased to be compared by the president to the character in the video game Pac-Man - "a round thing that gobbles up money," or to being the butt of G.O.P. political advertising.
They were two men from humble Irish-American backgrounds who did not back down from a fight, and their worldviews were poles apart. As someone who watched the back-and-forth from a front-row seat, I know they each believed deeply in what they fought for - and that each had deep concern about where the other's political views could take this country. My father was not simply tossing off a glib phrase when he said that Reagan wanted to rejigger this nation's tax structure to throw "one big Christmas party for the rich." Tip O'Neill detested Reagan-driven policies that left more money in the pockets of the wealthy - and cut the social programs for the elderly and the poor that he fought so hard to create.
As speaker of the House, he was obliged to fight what he and his party believed were disastrous steps being taken by the Republicans. My father fought tirelessly to see that Reagan's policies did not run roughshod over the disenfranchised. The president fought too, pushing back against spending he believed was out of control, and a social system he thought created dependency.
On occasion, these dueling philosophies brought both men to the mat - to the point where neither would back down. My father stood firm against deep cuts and other proposed changes to Social Security, believing in his core that the elderly poor would bear too great a burden. "I haven't been in public service all my life to watch anybody rip up everything I've stood for," I remember him saying. The political battle that resulted, in 1982, was among the most bruising my father and Reagan ever had.
In the fall of 1986, they waged war again over the renewal of the Clean Water Act. Just months before my father retired, after 34 years in the House, leaders in Congress hammered out a compromise agreement that seemed to satisfy all sides; the bill passed in the House by vote of 408 to zero, and in the Senate by 96 to none. When the president later vetoed the bill, my father didn't relent - urging his former colleagues to override the veto from the sidelines. I remember some of what he said at the time. None of it is printable.
But such unyielding standoffs were, in fact, rare. What both men deplored more than the other's political philosophy was stalemate, and a country that was so polarized by ideology and party politics that it could not move forward. There were tough words and important disagreements over everything from taxation to Medicare and military spending. But there was yet a stronger commitment to getting things done.
That commitment to put country ahead of personal belief and party loyalty is what Mr. Obama, Mr. Romney and millions of Americans miss so much right now. It allowed these two men to bend enough, even after their knockdown fight in 1982, to forge an agreement that helped save Social Security - something both men knew needed to be done. It meant that Reagan could support an increase in federal gas taxes, which would fund infrastructure improvements that both he and my father were convinced would put thousands of unemployed Americans back to work. My father hated to see the House cut social programs, even as he recognized that the president had been elected by millions of Americans and had earned the right to steer the country.
Historic tax reforms, seven tax increases, a strong united front that brought down the Soviet Union - all came of a commitment to find common ground. While neither man embraced the other's worldview, each respected the other's right to hold it. Each respected the other as a man.
President Reagan knew my father treasured Boston College, so he was the centerpiece of a dinner at the Washington Hilton Hotel that raised $1 million to build the O'Neill Library there. When Reagan was shot at that same hotel, my father went to his hospital room to pray by his bed.
No, my father and Reagan weren't close friends. Famously, after 6 p.m. on quite a few work days, they would sit down for drinks at the White House. But it wasn't the drinks or the conversation that allowed American government to work. Instead, it was a stubborn refusal not to allow fund-raisers, activists, party platforms or ideological chasms to stand between them and actions - tempered and improved by compromise - that kept this country moving.
I don't blame Mr. Obama or Mr. Romney for getting nostalgic about that.
Thomas P. O'Neill III, the lieutenant governor of Massachusetts from 1975 to 1983, is the founder and chief execuctive of the public affairs firm O'Neill and Associates. 

        
Ordinary Lies, Damn Lies and the Debates
        
Mitt Romney's Long Hot Summer
        
How to Get Our Citizens Actually United
        
Seven Consequences of the Health Care Ruling
        
'You're Likable Enough, Mitt.'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%); AGING (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); CHRISTMAS (61%) House of Representatives; Ronald Reagan; Tip O'Neill; United States Politics and Government; Obama, Barack; Reagan, Ronald Wilson; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Democratic Party

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; House of Representatives

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (94%); MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%) Obama, Barack; Reagan, Ronald Wilson; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



232 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 339 words

HEADLINE: A New High In Refinancing

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

 BODY:
Is it time to think about refinancing -- or perhaps, re-refinancing?
Mortgage refinancing jumped to a three-year high, as interest rates on home loans dropped to new lows, according to a weekly industry survey from the Mortgage Bankers Association. 
Mortgage applications overall increased 16.6 percent from one week earlier on a seasonally adjusted basis for the week that ended Sept. 28, according to the association's Market Composite Index, a measure of loan application volume. The survey covers more than three-fourths of all retail home mortgage applications in the United States, and has been conducted weekly since 1990.
The Refinance Index, meanwhile, increased 20 percent from the previous week. This was the highest refinance index recorded in the survey since April 2009.
"Refinance application volume jumped to the highest level in more than three years last week as each of the five mortgage rates in the M.B.A.'s dropped to new record lows in the survey," Mike Fratantoni, the association's vice president of research and economics, said in a prepared statement.
He said the markets are continuing to adjust as the Federal Reserve's initiative to buy bonds known as mortgage-backed securities, dubbed "QE3," pushes rates lower.
The refinance share of mortgage activity increased to 83 percent of total applications, from 81 percent the previous week.
The average interest rate for 30-year fixed-rate mortgages with "conforming" loan balances (meaning $417,500 or less) fell to 3.53 percent from 3.63 percent, while the average rate for 30-year fixed-rate jumbo loans (greater than $417,500) fell to 3.82 percent from 3.87 percent.
The average rate for 30-year fixed-rate mortgages backed by the Federal Housing Administration fell to 3.37 percent.
Those who can swing the monthly payments for a 15-year fixed rate mortgage saw the average rate decline to 2.90 percent.
Are low rates causing you to consider refinancing? Have you refinanced previously?
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (93%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (92%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012



233 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Drawing Up a Balance Sheet

BYLINE: By CARL RICHARDS

 BODY:
Carl Richards is a certified financial planner in Park City, Utah, and is the director of investor education at BAM Advisor Services. His book, "The Behavior Gap," was published this year. His sketches are archived on the Bucks blog.
The world is a crazy place. We hear reports that say the economy is getting better. Next month, we hear that things don't look so good. It feels like a tug-of-war, and we're caught in the middle. Looking around, you may feel like the only thing you have any hope of controlling is your financial situation. So you want to make some changes and put a framework around your financial future. 
But there's so much information! Credit card statements, mortgage payments, insurance renewals, student loan bills and every other piece of financial data about your life can be overwhelming. It's incredibly easy to throw up your hands and say, "I don't know where to start."
The best place to start is with your current reality. Seems obvious, right? But if it's so obvious, then why haven't we done it?
It can be painful. The reason you're looking to change things is because something isn't working. That something may be incredibly personal, like how you talk about money with your spouse. So we avoid our current reality and tell ourselves things will get better tomorrow.
There are a million other things to do. We're all busy. Thinking about what's right and wrong with your current reality probably doesn't make anyone's Top Ten list.
But if you find yourself in a situation where you're ready to make a change, the best place to start is at the beginning by creating a personal balance sheet. Your goal is to discover where you stand financially right now.
You don't need a fancy spreadsheet or even a computer for this exercise. Just grab a blank piece of paper and a pen. Then draw a line down the middle.
On the left side, list all your assets in detail. Bank accounts, the fair market value of your home, investment portfolio. For every asset, list it and its value.
On the right side, list all your liabilities. Credit card debt, mortgage, school loans. Again, get specific and list the actual amounts of each liability.
If you don't know, call your bank, credit card company or your adviser. In this exercise, guessing isn't allowed, so ask the questions and get the real numbers on paper.
Then, add up all your assets and subtract all your liabilities. You now have your net worth.
What does it look like? If you're not happy with the number you see, you have two choices that will probably involve some hard work:
Increase your assets
Decrease your liabilities
If you're wondering why I suggest starting with something so simple, it's because I keep crossing paths with people who don't know how their assets compare to their liabilities. And the reality is that if you don't know where you stand today, then how will you ever figure out where you want to be tomorrow?
So the next time you think you don't know where to start, ask the question, "What does my current reality look like?" Once you know where you stand, then you can make an honest assessment of your options and what comes next.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CARL RICHARDS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CARDS (88%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (74%); PERSONAL DEBT (74%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); HOME PRICES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012



234 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: Investors Indulge in Below-Grade Bonds

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
CASH is trash. Junk is gold.
Or so investors seem to think.
About $79 billion in sub-investment-grade corporate bonds were issued in the quarter that just ended, Dealogic reported this week. That was the largest amount issued in any quarter since the firm began collecting the numbers in the mid-1990s. 
That came as the Federal Reserve embarked on its latest effort to keep rates -- both short and long term -- as low as possible in an effort to stimulate the economy.
''Investors are starved for yields,'' said Martin Fridson, the chief executive of FridsonVision, a research firm. ''Some people say the Fed is pushing people into more risky investments.''
Sub-investment-grade bonds are traditionally known as junk bonds to their detractors and as high-yield bonds to their buyers. Neither term may be that accurate these days. The bonds have been excellent investments over the last year, but as prices have risen, the yields have fallen to record lows.
One widely followed index of the bonds, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch High Yield Master Index II, ended September with an average effective yield of 6.6 percent. That is the lowest yield in its history, as can be seen in the accompanying charts.
Of course, 6.6 percent does not look that bad today when contrasted with rates on high-quality bonds. Ten-year Treasuries offer yields of 1.6 percent, a little less than the current inflation rate. If you buy an inflation-linked 10-year Treasury -- one that will protect you if inflation gets out of hand -- you will lock in a real return of negative 0.86 percent. Buy a corporate bond rated Single A -- a good but not great credit rating -- and you can lock in a yield of around 2.4 percent.
Such low rates have proved attractive to issuers. Sales of new investment-grade corporate bonds reached $177 billion in the quarter, Dealogic reported. That was just a little lower than the figure for the first three months of this year, although it is well below the record of $271 billion issued in the first quarter of 2009.
Such heavy issuance of corporate bonds might appear to be an indication that companies are borrowing money to invest in new plants and equipment. But many of the loans are being taken out to refinance bonds issued in earlier years at higher interest rates. Such an exchange benefits the company at the expense of investors, who may end up trading in one bond for another with a lower yield.
The public demand for junk bonds appears to be high as well. EPFR Global estimated that investors put $19.3 billion into high-yield mutual funds during the third quarter. That was the second-highest amount it had calculated, trailing only the first three months of this year.
High-yield bonds can be risky as well. Their prices plunged during the recession when there were fears that many of the companies issuing such bonds would go broke. That sent yields soaring above 20 percent for a brief period.
The current strength of high-yield bonds -- investors in such bonds earned a total return of about 19 percent over the last 12 months -- appears to reflect a general belief that such an economic downturn is highly unlikely anytime soon.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: High Yields Aren't So High: A record $79 billion in high-yield corporate bonds were sold in the United States in the third quarter, as investors poured money into mutual funds buying those bonds. The flood of money has sent bond prices up, and yields down. (Sources: Dealogic (bond issuance)
EPFR Global (fund flows)
 Bank of America, via Bloomberg (bond yields and returns)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); BOND ISSUES (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); INFLATION (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012



235 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: A Climb in Consumer Credit

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Americans raised their borrowing in August by the largest amount in three months with strong gains in the category that covers auto and student loans and in credit card debt. 
Total consumer borrowing increased $18.1 billion in August compared with July, the Federal Reserve reported Friday. In July, consumer borrowing fell for the first time in nearly a year.
The rebound in August, along with a separate report that showed the nation's unemployment rate had dropped to 7.8 percent in September, were viewed as encouraging signs for the economy.
The August borrowing gains reflected a $4.2 billion increase in borrowing on credit cards and a $13.9 billion increase in auto and student loans.
Retail sales rose in August, in part because consumers bought more cars and trucks. Consumers were cautious in other areas, however, as rising gas prices left many with less to spend.
Activity through August left total consumer debt at $2.73 trillion, 5.5 percent above the prerecession peak in July 2008.
Consumers have been using credit cards much less since the 2008 credit crisis. Four years ago, Americans had $1.03 trillion in credit card debt, a record high. In August, that figure was 17 percent lower.
During the same period, student loan debt increased sharply. The category that includes auto and student loans, along with other loans for items like boats, was 20.3 percent higher than July 2008.
In the April-June quarter, student loans totaled $914 billion, according to a recent report from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. That was a nearly 50 percent increase from the July-September quarter of 2008.
Much of the increase in student loans was probably a result of high unemployment, which typically leads many Americans to go back to school in hopes of improving their education and skills.
Over all, American finances have been improving. In a separate quarterly report, the Fed said last month that a jump in the stock market and rising home prices were bringing Americans closer to regaining the wealth they lost in the recession.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (93%); CONSUMER LENDING (92%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); SALES FINANCING (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); REAL ESTATE (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%); HOME PRICES (68%); RETAIL SALES (54%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012



236 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: California Struggles With High Gas Prices

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS; Ian Lovett contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Drivers in Southern California awoke Friday to find that their gasoline prices had spiked by nearly 20 cents a gallon overnight as a result of fuel shortages caused by a series of refinery disruptions in recent weeks.
Some gas stations around the Los Angeles area were forced to shut off their pumps because of rationing by suppliers, and they displayed makeshift signs explaining that the shortages were not their fault. Drivers formed long lines at stations that did have gas, with some stations raising prices to more than $5 a gallon for regular gasoline.
''What are they doing to us?'' said Marilyn Tucker, a FedEx employee, as she stopped pumping at a central Los Angeles gas station at $37, well before the tank of her sedan was full. ''It's just ridiculous.'' 
Prices had been rising for several days, making California the most expensive state for gasoline. On Friday, Californians paid an average of $4.49 a gallon for regular -- 70 cents above the national average. Nationally, gas prices have risen less than half a penny a gallon over the last week, with prices now easing in many states.
Supplies of refined petroleum products on the West Coast are now at their lowest levels since 2008, while national inventories are about normal.
The immediate cause of the California price rise was a power failure at Exxon Mobil's Torrance, Calif., refinery on Monday that shut down some production units at the 150,000-barrel-a-day facility. The company on Friday said the refinery had resumed normal operations. Supplies on the West Coast had already been tight because of an Aug. 6 fire at Chevron's 245,000-barrel-a-day Richmond, Calif., refinery, which has still not been restored to full production.
California typically has substantially higher gasoline prices than most of the country because of its tough environmental regulations and high taxes. Gasoline supplies are traditionally tight this time of year as refiners do maintenance work to switch from summer to fall gasoline blends mandated by the California pollution-reduction regulations. But this year, energy experts say, the local gasoline market is particularly chaotic because of the refinery shutdowns.
Refining experts said the rationing and exceedingly high prices would probably last a couple of weeks at the most. Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service, said California customers might get some relief in the next few days because traders were suddenly lowering the prices of their bulk sales almost as fast as they were raising them over the last few days. He said the wholesale price for gasoline on the West Coast dropped 50 cents on Friday from a high of $4.25 a gallon.
''The prices are incredibly erratic,'' Mr. Kloza said. ''It's gone from incredibly excessive pricing to just plain excessive.''
In Southern California, Costco Wholesale outlets and other unbranded stations were particularly hard hit by the shortages because refineries normally supply their branded customers first because they pay a higher premium for locking in guaranteed supplies. Valero Energy, along with other refiners, temporarily halted spot sales of gasoline to some of its California customers.
''California requires a specific blend of gasoline that only the refineries on the West Coast make,'' said Bill Day, a spokesman for Valero. ''So when there is a shortage of that blend, you can't just send supplies from somewhere else.''
Gasoline prices largely depend on the price of crude oil. Global oil prices have eased somewhat since the beginning of the year, despite turmoil in the Middle East and sanctions on Iran. The easing is attributed to slowing economic activity around the world and increased supplies coming from several countries including Iraq, Libya, Saudi Arabia and the United States.
Across the country, gas prices remain high. The $3.79 average price for a gallon of regular is 39 cents higher than it was a year ago, although the price has come down 3 cents over the last month.
Nationally, Mr. Kloza said, the price of a regular gallon of gasoline should ease to about $3.50 between now and December, which would put prices fairly similar to a year ago.
High gasoline prices have frequently been a political issue, but President Obama may get a break this year because several swing states like Florida, Ohio, Virginia, North Carolina, Nevada and New Hampshire have gasoline prices that are relatively low compared with the national average.
On Friday, in central Los Angeles, motorists expressed a combination of frustration, resignation and anger.
''I'm not happy about it,'' said Michael Eisenhower, 52, a television costume designer, as he stared at the digits rising to nearly $40 to fill up his sport utility vehicle. He stopped short of topping off as he complained that his wages were not rising as fast as the price of gas.
''I've been putting in a reasonable amount of gas, enough for two days or so,'' he said. ''It's my way of budgeting what I have to work with each week.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A worker in Fresno raises gas prices. California prices are often high because of regulations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY KAZANJIAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); GAS STATIONS (90%); GASOLINE (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); POWER FAILURES (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); WHOLESALERS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (67%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (55%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); FRESNO, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); WEST USA (91%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012



237 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Mets Seeking Banks' Help With Heavy Debt

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
The Mets, whose financial woes have included steep losses, burdensome debt and an expensive showdown with the trustee for the victims of Bernard L. Madoff, are talking to banks to find a way to raise cash, according to two people with knowledge of their plans.
Under one option, SNY, the team's lucrative cable network, would refinance its existing $450 million loan and borrow still more toward paying off some of the team's heavy bank debt and toward other possible purposes, like day-to-day operating expenses or the twice-a-year payments on Citi Field's bonds. The team's owners, and their SNY partners, could also get cash dividends from the proceeds. 
The owners, Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz, declined to comment publicly on their plans or how much they hope to borrow.
The cable network, which carries Mets games, is a growing media asset potentially worth at least $1 billion, with revenue generated largely through cable, satellite and telephone company subscribers. Its cash flow is backed by multiyear contracts that typically lock in annual fee increases for a fixed length of time, making it largely immune from the team's longstanding revenue challenges, which are tied to attendance drops and ticket discounts at Citi Field.
Sterling Equities -- Wilpon and Katz's sports, real estate and investment company -- owns about 65 percent of SNY. Its partners, Time Warner and Comcast, must still agree to the borrowing plan. They would also receive dividends if the plan goes through.
''SNY is a better credit risk than the team,'' Marc Ganis, a sports industry consultant, said. ''It's not subject to Major League Baseball's debt restrictions, and unlike a team's expenses that go up and down, SNY's are easily quantifiable.''
Rob Tilliss, chief executive of Inner Circle Sports, a sports investment bank, said, ''They're moving the debt from one side of the ledger to the other.''
When SNY borrowed $450 million two years ago, $200 million was used to repay SNY's partners for the network's start-up costs, and nearly all the rest went to SNY's partners as cash dividends, The SportsBusiness Journal reported.
Depending on the size of the refinancing and the interest rates, SNY's debt payments could rise, which could mean that fewer profits are shuttled to the Mets' bottom line, Ganis said. One of the advantages of team-owned regional sports networks is the ability to move profits from the channels to the team.
''Any time you refinance, there's some hesitation and concern,'' said Wayne McDonnell, a professor of sports management at New York University. ''But this is a nice opportunity. It says to me that the Wilpon family is ready and willing to reassess some of the things that have hung over their heads for so long.''
Kenneth Shropshire, a sports business expert who is a professor of legal studies at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, said refinancing was like ''transferring a load of debt from a 19 percent credit card to a 10 percent credit card.''
''You still have the debt,'' he said, ''but at a lower rate.''
The Mets have an uphill climb before they can spend as freely as they did before Madoff's collapse in 2008 devastated Sterling's finances.
In 2011, the team lost $70 million, and might have lost tens of millions of dollars more this season despite lopping off $50 million in salary obligations. Wilpon and Katz were able to raise $200 million earlier this year by selling 40 percent of the team to a group of investors that includes the hedge-fund billionaire Steven A. Cohen and the comedian Bill Maher. The money went to pay off more than $100 million in bank debt and a $25 million loan from Major League Baseball. The other proceeds went for working capital.
The team finished in fourth place in the National League East for the fourth consecutive season, with a 74-88 record.
General Manager Sandy Alderson said on Wednesday that as he tried to extend the contracts of the team's two stars, pitcher R. A. Dickey and third baseman David Wright, he would make clear that ''we will not in the near future have unlimited funds.''
In the immediate aftermath of Madoff's December 2008 arrest on fraud and other charges, Wilpon and Katz portrayed themselves as innocent victims of the Ponzi scheme Madoff later pleaded guilty to orchestrating. Wilpon, Katz and their families and businesses had scores of accounts tied up in the Ponzi scheme, and they hoped to recoup many of their lost millions.
Instead, the court-appointed trustee charged with determining the legitimate victims of the scheme and the illegitimate beneficiaries of it accused Wilpon and Katz of having greedily invested with Madoff for decades despite ample warnings that his investment operation was suspect.
After months of litigation, Wilpon and Katz, as part of a settlement with the trustee, agreed to abandon their hopes of recovering much of what they insisted they were entitled to -- a sum in excess of $150 million.
Certainly, the Mets could have used the tens of millions of dollars that would have been returned to Wilpon and Katz had they been regarded as legitimate victims.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS BUSINESS (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); DIVIDENDS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (77%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (76%); BASEBALL (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); EXECUTIVES (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012



238 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Homeless Are Fighting Back Against Panhandling Bans

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

 BODY:
COLORADO SPRINGS -- Panhandlers, with their crumpled signs, coffee cups and pleas, are as customary a sight in many American towns and cities as Starbucks or McDonald's. But for one Utah homeless man, the right to ask people for money has become a personal legal crusade.
Steve Ray Evans, who uses a sign to ask drivers for money, has been successfully suing Utah cities that have cited him for panhandling, arguing that his right to free speech is being violated by a state statute that bans soliciting near roadways. 
''This is my only source of income,'' said Mr. Evans, 54, whose sign reads ''Starving Please Help!'' ''I do it for survival purposes. I feel as though a lot of other individuals depend on it, too.''
Mr. Evans said he had received more than 50 panhandling citations, and cases like his have become increasingly common of late. With the downturn in the economy, cities across the country have been cracking down on an apparent rise in aggressive panhandling, while advocates for the homeless and civil liberties groups contend that sweeping bans on begging go too far.
According to a report by the National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty that examined 188 cities, there was a 7 percent increase in prohibitions on begging or panhandling between 2009 and 2011.
''Our sense is that cities are responding to the increasing number of chronically or visibly homeless people due to the economic crisis,'' said Heather Maria Johnson, a civil rights lawyer for the group. ''Rather than addressing the issue of homelessness, they are adapting measures that move homeless people out of downtowns, tourist areas or even out of a city.''
Case law on the issue has varied over the years, and local panhandling laws differ widely. But several recent legal decisions have favored the homeless.
Last January, after Mr. Evans's initial lawsuit, Salt Lake City agreed to stop enforcing the state statute.
But Utah fought the suit, arguing that panhandling near roads was dangerous. A federal judge sided with Mr. Evans in March, ruling that the statute was unconstitutional. In June, the City of Draper agreed to stop enforcing the ordinance after Mr. Evans filed suit there as well.
After a lawsuit filed by a homeless man and a disabled veteran who were arrested on panhandling charges in Grand Rapids, Mich., a federal judge ruled in August that the state's blanket ban on public begging also violated the First Amendment. Michigan's attorney general, Bill Schuette, has appealed, arguing that begging is not protected speech.
In many cases, the dispute over panhandling centers on whether a city's efforts to criminalize aggressive begging to protect pedestrians and businesses ends up overreaching.
After the Northern California city of Arcata passed an ordinance banning panhandling in 2010, a local resident, Richard Salzman, sued in State Superior Court in Humboldt County.
Mr. Salzman, 53, an agent for commercial illustrators, said he had no problem with Arcata's efforts to curb aggressive panhandling. But he objected to the city -- long known for its liberal leanings -- also prohibiting panhandling that was not necessarily threatening on its face, like merely asking for money within 20 feet of the entrance to a store or restaurant.
''I don't know how much more passive you can be than standing there silently holding a sign,'' he said. ''This is a slippery slope we don't want to go down.''
Last month, Judge Dale A. Reinholtsen ruled that Arcata's law was indeed too broad and struck down most provisions that prohibited all panhandling in specific locations.
''The court finds that the legitimate interests advanced by Arcata with respect to the targeted panhandling prohibition are insufficient in most instances to justify the infringement of solicitors' speech rights,'' Judge Reinholtsen wrote in his opinion.
In Colorado Springs, city officials are weighing a panhandling ban for a commercial section of downtown, after merchants complained that begging was interfering with business.
''What they have told us is that the persistent sort of solicitation by people who just camp out in front of stores every day downtown has really discouraged tourists, shoppers and families from coming downtown,'' said City Attorney Chris Melcher.
Mr. Melcher acknowledged that there could well be a legal challenge if the ordinance is approved. But he said the city, which already bans aggressive panhandling, was committed to drafting a law that would avoid prohibiting lawful speech.
On a blustery Thursday morning in Colorado Springs, Turtle Dean, a 36-year-old homeless man, said that he did not think the proposed ban was fair.
''I only ask for money for stuff that I need to survive. Clothes and food,'' said Mr. Dean, who panhandles downtown and vowed to continue begging, ban or not.
The most recent suit by Mr. Evans, who is being represented by a lawyer with the Utah Civil Rights and Liberties Foundation, was filed last month against the City of American Fork, where he was recently cited for panhandling.
While city officials consider whether to fight the suit, American Fork has agreed not to pursue the charges against him for now and to temporarily stop enforcing the statute.
Mayor James H. Hadfield said Mr. Evans had been cited because he was panhandling in a construction zone and people had complained.
''I have nothing against Mr. Evans or people who do these types of activities and use common sense,'' he said. ''We react to people's complaints. We are not on a witch hunt.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Steve Ray Evans, in Salt Lake City on Thursday, has successfully sued Utah cities over panhandling citations, arguing that his right to free speech is being violated. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE TERRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Dimples, left, and Turtle Dean panhandled on Thursday in downtown Colorado Springs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PANHANDLING (95%); HOMELESSNESS (94%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ORDINANCES (89%); CITIES (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); JUDGES (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); APPEALS (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); ARRESTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LAW CENTER ON HOMELESSNESS & POVERTY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012



239 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: A Feud Over the Size of the Sty

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
ELDRIDGE, Iowa -- Sow 44733 had broken the shoulder of one of her pen mates, rousted another who was huddled in the corner and was chewing on the ear of a third.
Other sows in the pen sported abrasions, torn ears and bloody tail stumps -- all souvenirs of her attentions.
It was that kind of behavior that led hog farmers like Tom Dittmer to isolate sows in individual stalls called gestation crates that are barely bigger than the pigs themselves.
''The reason the industry switched to crates wasn't because we wanted to harm our animals,'' Mr. Dittmer said. ''We did it because we thought it was what was best for the animals.'' The move also kept the price of pork reasonably low for consumers, he said. 
This year, however, Mr. Dittmer and fellow hog farmers are under increasing pressure from corporate pork buyers and animal rights groups to return to the old way of doing things: putting sows in group housing. In the last week of September alone, three companies -- Dunkin' Donuts, ConAgra Foods and Brinker International, which operates Chili's -- announced that over the next decade, they would no longer buy pork derived from pigs housed in gestation crates.
This week, the Bruegger's bagel chain joined them. That brought the number of fast-food companies and food retailers that have made such commitments this year to 32 -- a stunning victory for the Humane Society of the United States, which has worked for years to persuade pork producers to make the change. The National Pork Producers Council said it did not know how much pork these companies bought but estimated it might be about one-fifth of the pork produced.
Farmers like Mr. Dittmer resent the tactics, saying they worry that the move will be unsustainably costly for them and result in soaring pork prices for consumers.
''What I don't like is some big restaurant chain in Chicago that knows nothing about raising animals is telling us how to raise pigs,'' said Glen Keppy, a retired pig farmer whose sons finish raising Mr. Dittmer's pigs for market, referring to McDonald's, which promised in February to stop buying pork from pigs born in gestation crates. ''Would they tell Microsoft how to make computers?''
Research is mixed about which type of housing is best for the animals' welfare, according to a review done by a task force convened by the American Veterinary Medical Association. But the Humane Society and other animal advocates maintain that housing sows in gestation crates is cruel.
Earlier efforts to convert the pork industry have had mixed success. Cargill, the nation's third-largest pork processor, owns about one-quarter of the sows that produce pigs for the company and began putting them in larger group pens about a decade ago. Smithfield Foods recommitted to transitioning to pens last year, after first promising it would do so in 2007 and then changing its mind. Tyson Foods and JBS, the two other large processors, have refused to budge.
So the Humane Society -- armed with graphic videos of workers abusing dead piglets and of sows in gestation crates so small they cannot turn around, suffering from shoulder lesions and nervous disorders -- took its case to the big consumer brands. It accomplished in months what it had been unable to achieve in years of prodding the major processors.
But now some of the independent farmers who supply those processors are fighting back.
Pat Hord and his family have put windows in some of their barns in north central Ohio to let visitors see for themselves how their 18,000 sows fare.
''There is a lot of misunderstanding and misinformation about what we do and how pigs get bred in crates,'' Mr. Hord said. ''It's not anyone's fault. It's just that no one is on the farm anymore.''
Mr. Dittmer recently invited a reporter for a tour of Grandview Farm, which was founded by his great-grandfather in 1917 and is now home to 6,000 sows that he often calls ''my girls.''
''I'm nervous about this, I have to say,'' Mr. Dittmer said as he began the tour. ''I'm afraid of becoming a target for the animal rights people. But if I'm going to hand this on to the next generation, which is the plan, I feel like people need to understand why we do things this way.''
When Mr. Dittmer began farming with his father in the 1970s, he said, their 150 sows lived in pastures like most pigs at the time, taking shelter under individual huts in the glaring heat of summer and wintering in barns.
He remembers chasing the huts around when the wind blew, refereeing fights between 500-pound sows who had laid claim to the same hut and trying to extricate them from the deep mud wallows. Back then, the Dittmer sows yielded an average of eight pigs a pregnancy.
The next decade, the Dittmers moved their sows inside, and the yields increased. The herd had grown to around 400 sows, and pigs were being bred with less fat as Americans turned to plant-based oils rather than lard from hogs. Leaner pigs had a harder time weathering Iowa's cold winters, and farmers needed to monitor their food intake more closely.
In the mid-1990s, farmers like the Dittmers and the Hords moved the sows into gestation crates, where their feed could be individually tailored. Restricting their movement controlled where they defecated and kept feces out of their food and water. Using slatted floors improved sanitation and made manure easier to remove. Medical care could be more easily and safely administered. Aggressiveness was minimized. Worker safety was enhanced.
And, yes, costs were reduced, and yields increased -- to an average of 12 pigs a pregnancy for the Dittmer sows. ''No one likes to hear it, but this is a business,'' said Ben Dittmer, Mr. Dittmer's son.
Using research on sow housing by Iowa State University, he estimated that Grandview Farm's costs would rise by $1.3 million a year if the Dittmers moved their sows back into pens. The same research indicates that sows would produce one to two fewer piglets a year, similar to the experience in Europe, which is well ahead of the United States in shifting sows to pens.
So for now, the family has decided to keep most of its sows in gestation crates, despite the pressure from animal rights groups. The Dittmers say that none of the 500 piglets that are born at Grandview Farm each day are confined to crates -- they roam in pens and can freely leave and enter the crate holding their mother to nurse. In fact, according to Cargill, the majority of pork Americans eat does not come from pigs raised in crates.
Mr. Hord, whose family has made investments in group housing for about 40 percent of their sows, said he sometimes wondered whether it would pay off. The new barns with pens were more expensive to build, and operational costs are higher because more manpower is needed to manage sow relations. Health care for the animals is more expensive, and no feeding system is yet ideal.
So far, the Hords are absorbing the extra costs. ''At some point, we will have to charge a premium,'' Mr. Hord said. ''Otherwise, we and others like us will eventually go out of business.''
American farmers say what happened to pork production in Europe could be a cautionary tale for consumers in the United States. In 1991, the British government ordered pig farmers to move their sows into pens by 1999. Consumers, unwilling to pay the higher prices that resulted, bought cheaper Danish and Dutch imports, bankrupting local farmers.
Now Denmark, the Netherlands and other pig-producing countries in the European Union must have their sows in pens by next year. Latin American, Chinese and Russian pig breeders, who do not face the same requirements, stand ready to sell their cheaper pork on the European market.
Not all American farmers share the same views as Mr. Dittmer and Mr. Hord. Paul Willis oversees a network of some 500 farmers around the country who raise the pigs that ultimately become Niman Ranch pork. The sows that give birth to those pigs roam in pastures, much like the Dittmer family's pigs did a few decades ago.
Mr. Willis said that gestation crates were inhumane. ''Those sows can't even turn around and they have no bedding, nothing to root around in,'' he said. ''I don't think it's acceptable.''
Whether the average American consumer is willing to pay more for pork from freer pigs remains to be seen. Sales of Cargill's Good Nature line of premium crate-free pork were up 20 percent last year -- but the company primarily promotes the meat's lack of antibiotics, growth hormones and preservatives.
One pound of Good Nature center cut boneless pork chops was $4.19 on the Web site of the ShopRite in Hoboken, N.J., compared with $3.29 for a pound of the same cut of the store's Sterling Silver chops.
Glynn Tonsor, an associate professor of agricultural economics at Kansas State University, said that household economics often trumped ethics.
Voters have overwhelmingly supported ballot measures to prohibit keeping chickens in cages, for example, but sales of cage-free eggs, which cost about 50 percent more than regular eggs, account for less than 5 percent of the overall market, Professor Tonsor said.
''There is no obvious economic reason for farmers to voluntarily switch from gestation crates to pens,'' he said. ''Now, though, it looks like that ship has sailed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tom Dittmer, below right, said he initially moved sows from housing pens to gestation crates, top, to ensure their safety. (B1)
 Sows, headed for slaughter, bear the scars from attacks by other sows, a result of sharing a pen. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN MALLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOG & PIG FARMING (90%); MAMMALS (90%); PORK (89%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); FOOD PRICES (88%); FAST FOOD (87%); LIVESTOCK ABUSE & NEGLECT (78%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (77%); BAKED GOODS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); RETAIL BAKERIES (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); ANIMAL WELFARE (69%); RETAILERS (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%); FOOD & BEVERAGE STORES (65%); RESTAURANTS (65%)

COMPANY: BRINKER INTERNATIONAL INC (68%); DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (68%); CONAGRA FOODS INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMANE SOCIETY (54%)

TICKER: EAT (NYSE) (68%); DNKN (NASDAQ) (68%); CAG (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (68%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (68%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (68%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (68%); NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (55%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (55%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (55%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012



240 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: Platinum Company Fires 12,000 Striking Miners in South Africa

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

 BODY:
JOHANNESBURG -- The world's top platinum producer fired 12,000 workers who refused to return to work on Friday, apparently an attempt by the company to stem the tide of wildcat strikes that have shaken South Africa's mining industry and unsettled Africa's biggest economy. 
The move by the company, Anglo American Platinum, is likely to heighten tensions in South Africa amid a wave of sometimes violent and illegal strikes by workers at platinum, gold and iron ore mines. Last week, Moody's downgraded South Africa's bond rating for the first time since 1994, and the country's currency, the rand, has weakened in recent days.
The mining industry has been in turmoil since Aug. 16, when the police opened fire on miners who had gathered outside a mine in Marikana, killing 34 and wounding dozens more. About 75,000 miners are believed to be on strike, representing nearly a fifth of the industry's work force.
Anglo American Platinum said Friday that just 20 percent of its workers had been showing up at its shafts, forcing the closing of the company's entire operation in the Rustenberg area, home to the world's richest platinum deposit.
Leaders of the African National Congress, South Africa's governing party, have struggled to contain the mining crisis despite their deep ties to trade unions. The wildcat strikes have been initiated by rival unions that criticize the A.N.C. and the traditional unions as being too complacent now that they are in power.
On Friday, a branch leader for the country's largest mineworkers union, the National Union of Mineworkers, which is closely allied with the A.N.C., was shot to death near a mine run by Lonmin, the company at the heart of the deadly unrest in Marikana, Reuters reported. A union spokesman was quoted as saying that the leader had been killed ''execution-style.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRIKES (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); PLATINUM GROUP METALS MINING (90%); MINE WORKERS (89%); BONDS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); CURRENCIES (75%); IRON MINING (72%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (92%) SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012



241 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SHORTCUTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Experts' Advice To the Goal-Oriented: Don't Overdo It

BYLINE: By ALINA TUGEND

 BODY:
I'VE never liked the idea of a bucket list -- that increasingly popular concept that we should tally up all the things we want to do before we die and, well, do them.
Whether it be swimming with dolphins (an oddly common choice), writing a book, trekking through Nepal or all three, it's not that the ideas are inherently bad. Rather, it is already too easy to reduce lives to a series of goals that we aim for, reach and then move on.
But goals are good, right? Aren't we always told they're the best way to get to where we want to be?
It turns out that that's not necessarily true, personally and professionally. 
I'll get back to the bucket lists in a bit. But first, let's look at what some of the research tells us about goals.
''We know goal-setting is a very powerful motivating force,'' said Maurice E. Schweitzer, a professor of operations and information management at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.
''Whether it's a runner who wants to set a certain time or a salesperson aiming for a number of sales, goals give us meaning, purpose and guidance.''
But, said Professor Schweitzer, who co-wrote a paper in 2009 ''Goals Gone Wild,'' which appeared in the journal Academy of Management Perspectives, things got a little out of hand.
''The proponents of goals focused on the benefits of the goals, not the harm, and too many businesses went too far, saying 'Here's what we want you to accomplish,' and implicitly saying, 'We don't care how you got there.' ''
And that, he said, can lead to, among other things, unethical behavior.
Lisa D. Ordóñez, a professor of management and organizations at the Eller College of Management at the University of Arizona, described experiments that proved this point. In one, participants were asked to create as many words as possible using letters -- sort of like the game Boggle. In one group, the participants were given a goal of nine words, and if met, they would receive some money. In a second group, they were given a goal but no financial incentive. And those in the third group were simply told to try their best.
The students who participated were given a chance to check their words in a dictionary to make sure they were true English words. They threw out the worksheets, and turned in the answer sheet that only stated how many words they had finished.
But the academic researchers running the experiment had a code to match the worksheets with the answer sheets and discovered that both groups that had been given a goal of creating a certain number of words -- whether or not money was involved -- cheated 8 to 13 percent of the time. Those in the third group rarely did.
''It's not that goals are bad,'' said Professor Ordóñez, who was also a co-author of the ''Goals Gone Wild'' article. ''We're just saying be careful.''
For example, a lot has been written about tying teachers' merit pay or jobs to how well their students do on standardized tests. The goal is to find a way to evaluate teachers' abilities. But this has led to a number of problems, including, in some cases, teachers cheating to raise students' scores.
''Part of the larger problem is, How do we measure performance?'' she said. ''We want to put our money where we are better served -- I get that. But what we end up measuring is not always the most important thing but the easiest to measure.''
Gary P. Latham, a professor of organizational effectiveness at the University of Toronto, has long studied the positive effects of goals. It's not that goals are bad, he said, but that problems arise when the values that underlie them and the process to achieve them are skewed.
''If you're going to be overly reductionist, then you're behaving stupidly,'' he said. ''You can have multiple goals for complex behavior.''
Professor Schweitzer agreed that it's a problem when goals become too narrowly focused.
Besides possibly leading to unethical behavior -- a lawyer being told to bill a certain number of hours a week will be tempted to fudge the numbers -- too much emphasis on goals can inhibit learning and undermine intrinsic motivation, he said.
''If the goal is to earn a certain score on a math test, then that goal takes over,'' Professor Schweitzer said. ''A love of learning or understanding of the elegance of math gets beaten out.''
And goals can have unintended consequences. A 1999 article on the use of incentives that appeared in The Journal of Economic Literature tells an anecdote about Ken O'Brien, the former New York Jets quarterback who had a tendency to throw interceptions early in his career. As a result, he received a contract that penalized him every time he threw the ball to the opposing team. It worked -- he threw fewer interceptions. But that was because he threw fewer balls overall, even when he should have.
''Goal-setting is like powerful medication,'' Professor Schweitzer said. ''You need to make sure how appropriate it is and keep monitoring it to determine, 'Is this goal too specific? Is this goal too stressful? Is it pushing many people beyond the normal bounds of what they should be doing?' If so, then you need to rethink that goal.''
Professor Ordóñez said she recognized that dilemma in her own life. While on a recent sabbatical, she wasn't working out, so she decided she needed a target to aim for and began training for a triathlon.
''It forced me to get out of bed at 5 a.m.,'' she said. And while the training was good for her, she was also aware she had less time to spend with her husband. And while she is glad she's going to take part in a triathlon, she said she wanted to make sure that one goal did not overshadow other important aspects of her life.
And this leads us back to the bucket lists. What troubles me is that rather than enhancing our lives, they can too quickly become the entire point.
''Setting these goals is a way of focusing one's attention, rather than asking, 'Why do I pursue these goals?' '' said Miroslav Volf, director of the Yale Center for Faith and Culture.
While a life without any goals would be aimless, it might not be a bad idea to jettison some overboard once in a while.
Roz Warren, a humorist, recently wrote an essay that appeared on a blog in The New York Times about how, at almost 58 years old, her goal now ''is to try to hang on to what I've got.''
She swims and walks, but is not going to take up yoga or lift weights. She's not going to finish (or start) books she ''should'' but really doesn't want to. And she may never learn to operate a Jet Ski.
Some readers applauded her decision, while others angrily thought she was embracing stagnation, Ms. Warren told me.
''I'm trying to let go of a lot of stuff I think a well-educated person ought to know,'' she said, like recognizing important works of classical music or art or identifying most trees and flowers.
''And I'm at peace with that. I'm not living life ticking off boxes.''
E-mail: shortcuts@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The goal was to get Ken O'Brien, the former New York Jets quarterback, to throw fewer interceptions. The remedy didn't work quite as imagined. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN REECE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); SALES PLAN (75%); ETHICS (75%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); ACADEMY OF MANAGEMENT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012



242 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3693 words

HEADLINE: Forced to Choose in Soccer: Club or Community

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

 BODY:
MONTCLAIR, N.J. -- If ever there were a picture-perfect day for high school sports, it was a sun-drenched Saturday afternoon in early September when the first intratown soccer showdown in a dozen years took place in this bustling suburb.
Next door to Montclair High School's soccer field, the football stadium was packed for the season opener. Parked cars lined otherwise quiet neighborhood streets. The late-summer air was heavy with anticipation as fans filled the soccer bleachers to see if Montclair Kimberley Academy, small in size but having grown in stature as an Essex County power, could beat its larger, public crosstown rival for the first time.
Peering into the stands at familiar faces from families of both schools and then to the other end of the field at several of the Montclair Kimberley boys he had played with on youth teams, the Montclair High senior midfielder Oliver Murphy could hardly contain himself.
''The kind of game you dream about,'' Murphy, one of his team's captains, would say. ''You see your parents coming in with all these other people from town, you're with your teammates getting ready -- that's why we play, for those kinds of moments.'' 
From the moment he had seen the 2012 schedule, Murphy -- Oli to coaches and teammates -- had been counting down to the first of two showdowns with the school known as M.K.A. The night before the game, he was wound up -- excited, nervous, restless. On game day he had difficulty keeping down the little breakfast he ate.
Murphy, 17, was not the only Montclair High soccer star grappling with his emotions that afternoon. Up in the grassy area behind the visitors' bench that Montclair Coach Jack Weber liked to call Heckle Hill -- because students traditionally gathered to razz the opposition -- Joseph Rodriguez, 16, was getting sideways looks and pointed questions.
Why wasn't he -- Montclair's leading scorer as a sophomore the previous season -- out on the field? Was he injured? Academically ineligible? He tried to explain that he had quit the team but not because he did not want to play.
It is complicated, he said, and left it at that.
In addition to being Montclair High teammates last year, Murphy and Rodriguez competed together for Match Fit, a prestigious soccer academy boasting a cooperative relationship with the famed English club Chelsea. But when the United States Soccer Federation announced early this year that players in its 80 affiliated academies would no longer be permitted to participate in high school soccer in an effort to mimic the international player developmental model, Murphy and Rodriguez -- like thousands of boys nationwide -- were forced into the delicate position of choosing between club and community.
The United States has been able to produce world-class players in other team sports -- like basketball and baseball -- using schools as athletic spawning grounds. But national soccer officials have come to the conclusion that having young players split their time between schools and clubs will never produce enough world-class talent needed to compete at the top international level with countries that have had a huge training and cultural advantage. Hence, the decision to force teenagers into making profound choices that can be complicated -- and costly -- for their families.
In Montclair, the Rodriguez and Murphy families are vivid examples of how this issue -- the increasing professionalization of youth sports -- is playing out across the country.
''My first reaction when I heard about the rule was that I was devastated,'' Murphy said. ''I was really upset that I would have to even make that choice. But I thought it over, and there was no way I would miss my high school season, my senior year.''
A grade behind Murphy, Rodriguez weighed the attraction of his hometown team and friends against the benefits of academy training and playing against the best competition available, even if practices were more than an hour's drive away and game travel -- along the Eastern Seaboard, stretching into Virginia -- was typically much farther.
With a heavy heart, he pledged allegiance to the academy and left the team that admittedly was the more enjoyable social experience.
''I loved being on the high school team -- these were the kids I played with all my life,'' Rodriguez said. ''But my dream is to have a chance at making a national team and playing professional soccer.''
Weber, Montclair's coach of 27 years, dealt with the blow of Rodriguez's departure philosophically and pragmatically. He knew that Rodriguez, with Match Fit's advocacy, had been invited to a national team camp in California in the summer of 2011. And while falling short of making a residency program in Bradenton, Fla., Rodriguez had aspirations of playing for the United States in the FIFA U-17 World Cup next fall in the United Arab Emirates.
''It became very clear that his longer-term goal from when Joey was a freshman was to be identified and get into the U-17 World Cup pool, and we talked about what he needed to do to get there,'' Weber said. ''He was very passionate and wanted to do everything he could for the high school -- and to this day I think it still tears at him -- but let's face it: the coach that might identify him for that pool of players is not going to be watching M.K.A. and Montclair High on a Saturday afternoon. In his case, he's probably where he needs to be.''
Grueling High School Schedule
Besides the benefits of being tagged and identified by national team officials and Division I college coaches at academy games and regional showcases, Rodriguez lamented the grueling, condensed schedule of the high school season, which plays out in about two months after workouts commence in mid-August.
''I got injured both years -- hit in the head and a sprained knee ligament,'' he said. ''High school soccer is very physical, not as much fun on a technical level.''
Weber acknowledged there were specific developmental disadvantages, noting that his team began this season with five games in 10 days against formidable league opponents, leaving scant time for training.
''I often say that 90 percent of my coaching is done during the preseason because the rest of the time I'm taping ankles and putting on Band-Aids and being a cheerleader in getting them up for the next one,'' Weber said. ''The high school rules don't allow us to put out the kind of program that they can put out at the club level.''
That was the training rationale behind the federation's decision to create an all-in program that would directly conflict with the high school season, said Bob Montgomery, the academy director for Red Bull New York, one of four academies affiliated with U.S. Soccer in New Jersey.
''What we've learned from the rest of the world is that the ideal is three to four practices and one game a week that tests how they're doing their work,'' he said. ''But change is always difficult, especially where you have a situation where players have already been on a high school team for a couple of years and feel they are having something taken away from them. So this has created a lot of problems, a lot of controversy.''
Most irritating to Weber and other public school coaches has been the willingness of some academies to grant waivers to a few players attending private and parochial schools. Red Bull and Match Fit each acknowledged they were allowing one academy player to compete for his high school this season.
Tony Lepore, the director of scouting for the national development academy, said ''a few exceptions'' were made for those receiving financial assistance to attend a particular school. While private and parochial schools have historically denied recruiting and providing athletic scholarships, Lepore said, ''Whether they call it tuition aid or a subsidized scholarship, there's an understanding that they will play a sport.''
When formulating or enforcing policy, U.S. Soccer has no interest in the outcome of high school leagues, he added. Whatever imbalances may have been created between public and private, the hope is that the next generation of elite players will accept the cultural shift and the need for them to separate, as is done elsewhere in the world. A planned expansion of the academy program will include 13- and 14-year-olds, meaning academy-caliber players would never play a season of high school soccer.
Weber said the issue on a larger scale was not so much the adoption of the international development ideal or even the arbitrary waivers. It was the question of whether the policy is casting too wide a net when looking for boys with national team or professional potential.
And how many might needlessly sacrifice the benefits -- social and otherwise -- of playing for their schools and communities?
Not Just for Future Pros
Noting that the academy operated by Red Bull not only has a direct affiliation with Major League Soccer but is the only one of the four in New Jersey that is free, Weber said: ''If they're paying for a kid to have a 10-month experience, of consistent coaching, how can I argue with that? But some of the clubs charge for it. That's where I have a question: Are there that many kids at that caliber that the New Jersey area can support four teams at every grade level? I could make the argument probably not. What I worry about is the possibility of parents buying false hope.''
Lepore contended that the academy program is not solely fixated on breeding professionals, or national team players.
''It's about taking a player to the highest level he is capable of reaching, whether that's professional, home or abroad, or into college,'' he said, adding that parents can be assured that there is ''a high level of accountability'' because U.S. Soccer has selectively accredited its academies, graded them on a five-star scale and approved only three new applications out of 200 last year.
''That said, we do understand the academies are not for everyone. It comes down to a family decision.''
Yael Averbuch, who is arguably Montclair High's best-known soccer player but who never played a minute for the school on the way to earning a spot in the national team pool and a scholarship at North Carolina, said the decision to pursue sports at the highest level was not different from investing in any talented child's pursuit of admission to a prestigious conservatory or theater program.
In an e-mail from Sweden, where she is playing professionally, Averbuch said: ''I do feel that I missed out on the social aspect of it, but I was very motivated to find other training environments for myself that I felt would better help me reach my goals. Yes, the academy system is guaranteeing that the player is getting the highest level of training and playing with and against the most elite players. It is also not the only way to get to the highest level, and nor is it every kid's goal to get to that level. So this is one of those situations where there is no 'right' answer, really.''
Somewhat paradoxically, Murphy, the Montclair High senior, decided to embrace the more Americanized system that places a greater emphasis on scholastic sports despite playing his earliest soccer at the club level in his native England. His family moved to New Jersey in 2005 when his father, Tony, landed an executive position in human resources.
The club system in England was different, the Murphys said, in that costs were minimal compared with what most American families pay even for midlevel travel teams, much less the academy level. Liz Murphy, Oliver's mother, recalled parents being ''up in arms'' when the club asked families for an extra 10 pounds, under $20, for new uniforms. As a result, she said, the makeup of the team was more diverse than what they have typically been exposed to in the United States.
''Here it costs a fortune,'' she said.
According to Rob Leather, who coaches the U-16 academy team Rodriguez still plays for with Match Fit, the yearly fees are a ''little more than $2,000.''
''We try to keep the costs as low as possible with the economy being the way it is,'' he said.
But the Murphys and Paul Rodriguez, Joseph's father, said the financial requirements of traveling to games and showcases add up quickly, along with the weekly driving expenses for those not living near practice sites.
The Murphys occasionally car-pooled with the Rodriguezes and another Montclair family to ease the burden. But it was on those long drives to and from practice that Liz and Tony Murphy were able to help their son distill the issues.
''We had quite a few conversations with Oliver, and they started before the rule was implemented because they'd been talking about it for some time,'' Tony Murphy said. ''When they finally enacted it, he was very low because of his emotional attachment to the Montclair team and the coaches. What I had noticed is that he responds so much more when there's that close connection, which he didn't really feel as much from at the academy.''
By last spring, Oliver Murphy dreaded the long weekday night drives to practice. He worried that the time commitment was detracting from his important junior year of academics. He liked his teammates well enough but did not feel the same galvanized spirit as he did in Montclair.
''Honestly, playing for the academy kind of felt like you were playing for yourself more than the team,'' he said.
He preferred not only the passion of the high school matches but the age-mixing, the mentoring he received as a varsity sophomore -- in particular from one of the seniors, Jake Goldberg -- and the chance to do likewise for this season's underclassmen. As a freshman, he had gone to the soccer banquet and told his mother on the drive home that someday he hoped to make the kind of heartfelt speech he had just heard from that year's captains.
In fairness to the academy program, he never envisioned himself on any track other than the one to college, with the hope that soccer would enhance his application to a strong school. And while he believed that he would have attracted the interest of college coaches had he not joined the academy, by attending showcases on his own or with a regular club team, there was no question that his Match Fit experience had put him on the radar of several good Division III programs to which he is in the process of applying.
Upon quitting the academy team, Murphy rejoined a club team that is also affiliated with Match Fit but is a level down from the academy. When the high school season is over, the demands will not be as rigorous, the practices will be in the Montclair area and he will have gotten to finish what he started.
Murphy also acknowledged that what was right for him was not necessarily the case for others, specifically Rodriguez.
''Joe's a great player; he's got his plan and his dream, and I really respect him for going after it,'' he said.
'He Just Can't Stay Away'
Even in leaving, however, it has been nearly impossible for Rodriguez to distance himself from the high school team. He was a frequent visitor on those sweltering days of preseason practice. When school began, he attended home games whenever he could and even some after-school practices.
''He just can't stay away,'' Rodriguez's father, Paul, said one recent weekday afternoon when his son watched the first half of a game against Livingston, cheering a goal by Alex Patel, his classmate, good friend and former teammate on a formidable club team known as the Gauchos.
Composed of boys from the Montclair area, most of whom expect to play in college, the Gauchos have served the kind of alternative path to an academy program that Averbuch, now playing in Sweden, referred to. Rodriguez played with the Gauchos for a few years but left the team three years ago to join Match Fit, recommended by Leather, who at the time was coaching in the Montclair area.
Early in the second half of the Livingston game, Paul Rodriguez called his son to say he was parked outside the field. It was time to leave for academy practice, and the roughly 50-mile drive to Mercer County Community College in West Windsor was likely to be extended to as much as two hours by rush hour traffic.
''I'm not going to kid you,'' Paul Rodriguez said. ''I do this because I love my kid. It's a sacrifice, but he's incredibly dedicated.''
He laughed at himself for being the designated practice driver -- in his job as a research analyst for an investment bank he has been able to work at home and meet the weekday evening demands -- while his wife, Ana, handles game travel (though the academy team travels by bus to distant out-of-state games). The family's Toyota Land Cruiser bears the mileage scars, 154,000 and counting.
After Joseph eased his lanky frame into the back seat, his father passed him a wrapped sandwich and a drink. On the crowded Garden State Parkway there was a Spanish work sheet to tackle. As with Murphy, Rodriguez said the hardest part of the academy commitment was maximizing time to get his schoolwork done.
''Last year I really had to try hard,'' he said, admitting that just getting to school the morning after a taxing nighttime practice could be a chore. ''Sometimes you can barely walk. I don't know one kid who plays for the academy who loves the long drives and the practices.''
But he quickly added that he loved soccer, watched it on television more than any other sport and believed the hard work -- he is hearing from Division I colleges -- would ultimately pay off.
With traffic surprisingly easing, Paul Rodriguez dropped his son by the soccer complex 40 minutes before the scheduled 7:30 practice and headed out for a quick dinner. More than food, the discovery of a local tavern had been crucial in recent years in providing shelter from the nighttime autumn chill that would be coming soon enough.
On this pleasant night, several parents watched comfortably in the stands as Leather, the coach, put his team through a brisk workout lasting more than two hours under the lights. Leather, an Englishman who grew up in the club system and never played for his school, said that Rodriguez -- a left-footed attacking midfielder with slick ball and passing skills -- ''had just missed out'' on the residency program in Florida.
Still living in Montclair and making the long commute, like the Rodriguezes, Leather said he could understand how clinical academy soccer might feel in comparison to the more tribal high school environment.
''These boys are not from the same towns -- although they've all seen and played against each other somewhere along the way,'' he said. ''They're thinking, I'm playing with the best guys from all those other teams, which I know they feel good about. But I'm not going to lie; it takes time to build that team rapport. It doesn't happen overnight. As soon as we're done, they're back in the car.''
Sweating in his practice uniform in the back seat, Rodriguez checked his cellphone for messages, discovering that Montclair had beaten Livingston, which made him happy. But as the ride dragged on, and Parkway construction slowed traffic to a crawl a few miles south of Montclair, he complained of thirst and hunger. It was a few minutes past 11. His father suggested he call home and ask his mother to have something ready.
''This can really wear you down, no question,'' Paul Rodriguez said. ''But I think he knows how good this competition is for him, how much the academy has already done for him. I mean, I was with him in California and it was astounding how good those kids were, how fast the game was.''
He paused a moment and said that while he believed his son could compete at that level, he was not sure that he would have been emotionally ready for full-time residency and might have subconsciously held back.
''It's a lot to take on at his age,'' he said. ''To be honest, sometimes I'm surprised he's hung in there. But he's never once said maybe I should change my mind.''
If that were going to happen, Paul Rodriguez guessed it would have been after the Montclair Kimberley game, the toughest of all to watch, as it turned out. In the oppressive conditions, the teams battled furiously through a scoreless 79 minutes with players on both sides -- Oliver Murphy included -- having to withstand waves of cramping.
In the opinion of Weber, his coach, Murphy played one of his best games as Montclair's midfield general, but that only made the result -- a 1-0 defeat when Montclair Kimberley's Ryan Fennelly scored with 30 seconds remaining off a long ball that got behind the Montclair High defense -- all the more crushing.
Murphy's cramping was so bad afterward that his teammates had to help stretch him out before he could drive home, where he was not yet ready to face his parents, or his younger brother, a Montclair High sophomore. He sat silently in the car with the engine turned off.
The Pull of High School Play
Sympathy and a good meal awaited him inside, but he wanted none of it just yet. He headed straight to the shower, where he stayed ''a very long time,'' trying to wash away the pain that only got worse.
''After all that buildup, how hard we played, the result was devastating,'' he said later. ''It hurts just thinking about it, remembering the goal, and seeing Ryan, who I played with when I was younger, run away in celebration, and then all the tweets and Facebook messages of how M.K.A. runs this town.''
He shook his head in the retelling of the game's aftermath but most certainly didn't hang it.
''All those emotions racing inside me and it was just one game,'' Murphy said, sensing that to be so pained for everyone on his side, including himself, also spoke to the beauty of high school sports. And that someday (even after losing the rematch with M.K.A. three weeks later by the same 1-0 score) the hurt would dissolve into memories to share and possibly even savor.
It was also a game that Rodriguez would probably never forget not playing in.
''He came back from that M.K.A. game so miserable,'' Paul Rodriguez said. ''It was just killing him.''
But Rodriguez, like Murphy, did not have much time to dwell, or sulk. His first academy game of the season was the next day, at home, or an hour away in Princeton. Sunday traffic promised to be light.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The passion involved with Montclair High School's game against rival Montclair Kimberly Academy was something Joseph Rodriguez, below center, had to give up to continue playing for an academy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUAN ARREDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1)
Earlier this year, the U.S. Soccer Federation said players in its affiliated developmental academies would no longer be able to participate on high school teams, like Montclair High. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUAN ARREDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D2)
Oliver Murphy, above in white, quit playing for the Match Fit academy so that he could stay on his high school team, which, among other benefits, is more convenient. Paul Rodriguez, left, makes an hourlong trip three days a week to drive his son to Match Fit practices. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUAN ARREDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (91%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS (90%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (78%); YOUTH SPORTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); FAMILY (76%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES SOCCER FEDERATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012



243 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Catalan Leader Boldly Grasps a Separatist Lever

BYLINE: By RAPHAEL MINDER

 BODY:
BARCELONA, Spain ARTUR MAS, the leader of Catalonia, has a clear message for Madrid: He is serious about his threat to let the people of Spain's most economically powerful region decide for themselves in a referendum whether they should remain a part of Spain.
In fact, he said in an interview this week, he would personally vote for independence if the opportunity arose. ''Our ideal is to be part of the United States of Europe,'' he said.
That kind of posturing has thrust Mr. Mas, 56, to the forefront of Spanish politics and made Catalonia the biggest domestic headache for Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, who is facing troubles on all sides as he tries to satisfy demands from the European Union to straighten out Spain's economy and from Spain's heavily indebted regions, including Catalonia.
The question now for Mr. Rajoy, and for all of Spain, is just how far Mr. Mas, a once relatively obscure politician who was elected regional president two years ago, is willing to go in posing what may be the most serious challenge to a sovereign entity in Europe since the implosion of Yugoslavia in the 1990s. 
Mr. Mas's talk is not idle. With a $260 billion economy that is roughly the size of Portugal's, an independent Catalonia and its 7.5 million inhabitants -- 16 percent of Spain's population -- would rank ahead of a dozen of the 27 nations in the European Union. But like most of Spain's regions, it is under great financial pressure and would like a better deal from Madrid.
In that respect, his threats may amount to nothing more than brinkmanship, as he applies to Madrid much the same tactic it has used to gain favorable treatment in its own dealings with Brussels: that is, that Catalonia, which has its own language and sense of identity, is simply ''too big to fail'' without calamitous consequences that no one wants to see. On Friday, Catalonia's government raised the pressure, saying it would not be able to meet its September payments for basic services like heath care on schedule.
The great risk is that Mr. Rajoy's government -- squeezed as it is, itself weighing a European bailout -- is hardly in a position to appease Catalonia's demands under a Spanish tax system that redistributes revenue from the richest to the poorest regions, without also raising tensions with other struggling regions.
The grievances run in both directions. In Catalonia's view, Madrid has drained its finances, while Madrid accuses Catalonia, like nearly all of Spain's regions, of mismanaging its books.
In the interview on Wednesday in the Catalan government's medieval palace, Mr. Mas was unrepentant about further unnerving investors who already question Mr. Rajoy's ability to meet agreed deficit targets and clean up Spanish banks. Instead, he contended that it was Mr. Rajoy who had forced Catalonia down the separatist path, after rejecting its demands unconditionally.
''When you get a clear no, you have to change direction,'' Mr. Mas said. Although he acknowledged that there was no guarantee Catalonia would succeed in imposing its claims on Madrid, he argued that ''the worst-case scenario is not to try, and the second-worst is to try and not get there.''
HIS advice to Mr. Rajoy was to avoid further delay in tapping a bond-buying program, devised by the European Central Bank largely with Spain's rescue in mind. European financing -- in the form of billions of dollars in subsidies received after Spain joined the European Union in 1986 -- had already played a major part in Spain's development, he noted.
''The problems of Spain now supersede its capacities, so that it needs help,'' Mr. Mas said. ''If you have no other choice than to ask for a rescue, the sooner the better.''
Asked, however, where Spain would stand without Catalonia, its industrial engine, Mr. Mas was unperturbed. ''Spain without Catalonia is not insolvent but more limited,'' he said.
An economist by training, Mr. Mas comes from a Catalan family linked to the metal and textile sectors, which were at the heart of the region's development after the Industrial Revolution. Having studied at a French school in Barcelona and then learned English, he also stands out as a rare multilingual leader in Spain's political landscape.
He climbed the ladder of Catalonia's politics over a long career as a public servant in the shadows of another politician, Jordi Pujol, who ran Catalonia for more than two decades. While hardly unknown in his region, Mr. Mas has surprised even party insiders this year by the way he has thrown caution to the wind in challenging Mr. Rajoy.
''We all knew Mas as an efficient technocrat and one of our very best managers, but I don't think many people expected him to show such courage and patriotic feelings,'' said Josep Maria Vila d'Abadal, a mayor and member of Mr. Mas's party, Convergència i Unió.
Mr. Mas insisted that his separatist drive was ''not about personal ambition,'' saying he would retire from politics once Catalonia achieved sovereignty. He is married with three children.
Even though Catalonia would face an uphill struggle to join the European Union, particularly given Madrid's opposition, Mr. Mas said that Brussels had shown in the two decades since the collapse of the Soviet Union that it could adjust to much more dramatic and unforeseeable nationhood claims.
Mr. Mas has already put words into action. Shortly after being rebuffed by Mr. Rajoy over his tax demands, he called early elections in Catalonia -- on Nov. 25, two years ahead of schedule -- that could turn into an unofficial referendum on independence, after a mass rally in Barcelona on Sept. 11 in which hundreds of thousands of Catalans demanded to form a new European state.
On the heels of the rally, Mr. Mas and his nationalist party are counting on significant gains in next month's election as they try to convince Catalans that Mr. Mas can erase their longstanding complaints about control from Madrid.
''We have created a big feeling of hope among a big part of our society,'' Mr. Mas said.
SUCH comments, however, have also prompted criticism of Mr. Mas, led by Madrid politicians as well as other regional leaders, who have denounced Catalonia's attempt to break ranks in a time of crisis.
While Mr. Rajoy has steered clear of the wrangling, some conservative politicians have warned of retaliatory measures. His deputy prime minister warned Mr. Mas last week that Madrid would use every legal instrument available to block a Catalan vote on independence, which would violate Spain's Constitution.
Others accuse Mr. Mas of using the tussle with Madrid to shift the blame for Catalonia's economic difficulties onto Mr. Rajoy and to distract voters from his government's own shortcomings, including a failure to meet the deficit target that the Catalan government set for itself last year.
Last week, Pere Navarro, the leader of the opposition Catalan Socialist Party, called Mr. Mas ''a false prophet,'' who talked about a promised land instead of recognizing that he had made Catalonia ''worse than two years ago,'' when Mr. Mas took office.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ARTUR MAS (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDU BAYER FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); POLITICS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); REFERENDUMS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (94%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (97%) SPAIN (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); PORTUGAL (79%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012



244 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Group Buying L.I. Estate for Tesla Memorial

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD

 BODY:
A dream of 16 years came true for science enthusiasts on Friday when they struck a deal to buy a dilapidated estate on Long Island and transform it into a museum and educational memorial to Nikola Tesla, an eccentric genius who lit the world with alternating current but died penniless. 
The overgrown 16-acre site, in Shoreham, features his only surviving workshop. The crumbling brick laboratory was designed by Tesla's friend Stanford White, a celebrated architect who drew up plans in Manhattan for the Washington Arch as well as neoclassical gems like the Century Club.
The Agfa Corporation, which owns the heavily wooded site and once operated a factory there, agreed to sell the estate to the Tesla enthusiasts for an undisclosed sum after they succeeded in raising $1.4 million through a Web campaign. The property had been listed at $1.6 million.
''All the terms and conditions have been accepted,'' said John P. O'Hara, a real estate agent on Long Island who represents the property. ''It's all good. The stars have finally aligned.''
Agfa's attorney, Christopher M. Santomassimo, confirmed the deal, saying, ''We have reached an agreement.''
Tesla, best known for establishing alternating current as the basis for the modern transmission of electrical power, died in 1943 at age 86 on the 33rd floor of the New Yorker Hotel in Manhattan. (The inventor late in life had become obsessed with the number three and its multiples.)
Marc J. Seifer, author of ''Wizard,'' a Tesla biography, said the memorial would become a magnet for visitors from around the globe while providing jobs on the island's North Shore and a lift for the local economy.
''It'll be a beacon,'' he said in an interview. ''Tesla was an inventor in so many different realms -- aircraft design, robotics, beam weapons, mass communications -- that he's an inspiration for what true genius really is.''
Mr. Seifer said donors from more than 100 countries contributed money to the Web campaign, run by the comic The Oatmeal and another site, Indiegogo.
''I think people from all over the world will want to visit the site of his laboratory,'' he said. ''It's going to be a tremendous thing.''
The effort of the Tesla enthusiasts to acquire the Agfa property on Long Island began officially in 1996 with the founding of Friends of Science East, a nonprofit corporation spun off from the science museum at Shoreham-Wading River High School. The group investigated Tesla and the site's history and redoubled its acquisition efforts after Agfa in early 2009 put the property up for sale.
Friends of Science East now calls itself the Tesla Science Center at Wardenclyffe, after Tesla's name for the site during its heyday. By 1903, the inventor had erected a wooden tower there that rose more than 18 stories above the surrounding farms. One night, it fired bolts of electricity into the sky.
But Tesla eventually sold Wardenclyffe to satisfy his debts. In 1917, the new owners had the giant tower blown up and sold for scrap. Today, the brick laboratory is the main Tesla relic.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The only surviving former workshop of the inventor Nikola Tesla sits on 16 acres in Shoreham. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAXINE HICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); HISTORY (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); INTERVIEWS (72%); CELEBRITIES (71%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); WRITERS (64%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (64%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

COMPANY: AGFA CORP (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3555 PRINTING TRADES MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012



245 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: How Hugo Chávez Became Irrelevant

BYLINE: By FRANCISCO TORO. 
Francisco Toro is a journalist, political scientist and blogger.

 BODY:
Caracas, Venezuela
AS Hugo Chávez, the icon of Latin America's left, struggles to hang on to his job, it's tempting to read tomorrow's closely contested election in Venezuela as a possible signal of the region's return to the right. That would be a mistake, because the question that's been roiling Latin America for a dozen years isn't ''left or right?'' but ''which left?''
Outsiders have often interpreted Latin America's swing to the left over the last dozen years as a movement of leaders marching in ideological lock step. But within the region, the fault lines have always been clear. 
Radical revolutionary regimes in Venezuela, Ecuador, Bolivia and Nicaragua joined Cuba, the granddaddy of the far left, in a bloc determined to confront the capitalist world, even if that meant increasingly authoritarian government.
A more moderate set of leaders in Brazil, Uruguay and Guatemala put forth an alternative: reducing poverty through major social reforms without turning their backs on democratic institutions or private property rights.
As Fidel Castro's favorite son, Mr. Chávez has always been the leader of the radical wing. And Brazil's size and economic power made it the natural leader of the reformist wing.
Outwardly, the two camps have been at pains to deny that any divisions exist. There have been many pious words of solidarity and lots of regional integration accords. But behind closed doors, each side is often viciously dismissive of the other, with Chávez supporters seeing the Brazilians as weak-kneed appeasers of the bourgeoisie while the Brazilians sneer at Mr. Chávez's outdated radicalism and chronic incompetence.
As recently as five or six years ago, there was a real ideological contest. A wildly unpopular American president prone to military adventurism helped Mr. Chávez rally the continent against Washington. One country after the next joined the radical axis. First Bolivia, then Nicaragua, Honduras and Ecuador, joined a growing roll call of radicals in 2005 and 2006.
Now the political landscape is almost entirely transformed. Barack Obama's 2008 victory badly undermined the radicals' ability to rally opposition to gringo imperialism. Meanwhile, the alternative was becoming increasingly attractive.
Brazil's remarkable success in reducing poverty speaks for itself. Building on a foundation of macroeconomic stability and stable democratic institutions, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, who was Brazil's president from 2003 to 2010, oversaw the most remarkable period of social mobility in Latin America's living memory.
As millions of Brazilians rose into the middle class, Mr. Chávez's autocratic excesses came to look unnecessary and inexcusable to Venezuelans. Mr. da Silva and his successor, Dilma Rousseff, have shown that a country does not need to stack the courts, purge the army and politicize the central bank to fight poverty. Brazil proves that point, quietly, day in and day out.
It isn't just democratic institutions that have suffered from Mr. Chávez's radicalism; it's the economy, too. Venezuela's traditional dependence on oil exports has deepened, with 96 percent of export revenue now coming from the oil industry, up from 67 percent just before Mr. Chávez took office. Nationalized steel mills produce a fraction of the steel they're designed for, forcing the state to import the difference. And nationalized electric utilities plunge most of the country into darkness several times a week. The contrast with Brazil's high-tech, entrepreneurial, export-oriented economy couldn't be more stark.
For all of Mr. Chávez's talk of radical transformation, Venezuela's child mortality and adult literacy statistics have not improved any faster under his government than they did over the several decades before he rose to power.
With oversight institutions neutered, the president now runs the country as a personal fief: expropriating businesses on a whim and deciding who goes to jail. Judges who rule against the government's wishes are routinely fired, and one has even been jailed. Chávez-style socialism looks like the worst of both worlds: both more authoritarian and less effective at reducing poverty than the Brazilian alternative.
And the region has noticed. The key moment came in April 2011, when Ollanta Humala won the Peruvian presidency. Long seen as the most radical of Latin America's new breed of leaders, Mr. Humala had run on a Chávez-style platform in 2006 and lost. By last year, he'd seen the way the wind was blowing and remade himself into a Brazilian-style moderate, won and proceeded to govern -- so far, successfully -- in the Brazilian mold.
Now, in a final indignity, Mr. Chávez is facing a tight re-election race against Henrique Capriles Radonski, a 40-year-old progressive state governor who extols the virtues of the Brazilian model.
Although Mr. Chávez's government has done its best to paint a caricature of Mr. Capriles as an old-style right-wing oligarch, he is unmistakably within the Brazilian center-left mold: Mr. Capriles pitches himself as an ambitious but pragmatic social reformer committed to ending the Chávez era's authoritarian excesses.
The rest of Latin America has already been through the ideological battle in which Venezuela remains mired. By and large, other nations have made their choices. The real question in this election is whether Venezuela will join the hemispheric consensus now, or later.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JONATHAN BARTLETT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%); DILMA ROUSSEFF (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); FIDEL CASTRO (53%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (95%); BRAZIL (95%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); NICARAGUA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ECUADOR (92%); URUGUAY (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); HONDURAS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012



246 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: Bipartisan Claim Gets Closer Look

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES; Michael Barbaro contributed reporting.

 BODY:
BOSTON -- He came into office with a mandate to shake things up, an agenda laden with civics-book reforms and a raging fiscal crisis that threatened to torpedo both. He sparred with a hostile legislature and suffered a humiliating setback in the midterm elections. As four years drew to a close, his legacy was blotted by anemic job growth, sagging political popularity and -- except for a landmark health care overhaul bill -- a record of accomplishment that disappointed many.
That could be the Barack Obama that Mitt Romney depicted in Wednesday's presidential debate as an ineffective and overly partisan leader. But it could also be Mitt Romney, who boasted of a stellar record as Massachusetts governor, running a state dominated by the political opposition.
Mr. Romney did score some successes beyond his health care legislation, notably joining a Democratic legislature to cut a deficit-ridden budget by $1.6 billion and revamping a troubled school building fund. Some outside experts and former aides say his administration excelled at the sorts of nuts-and-bolts efficiencies that make bureaucracies run better, like streamlining permit approvals and modernizing jobs programs. 
As a Republican governor whose legislature was 87 percent Democratic, Mr. Romney said in Wednesday's debate, ''I figured out from Day 1 I had to get along, and I had to work across the aisle to get anything done.'' The result, he said, was that ''we drove our schools to be No. 1 in the nation. We cut taxes 19 times.''
But on closer examination, the record as governor he alluded to looks considerably less burnished than Mr. Romney suggested. Bipartisanship was in short supply; Statehouse Democrats complained he variously ignored, insulted or opposed them, with intermittent charm offensives. He vetoed scores of legislative initiatives and excised budget line items a remarkable 844 times, according to the nonpartisan research group Factcheck.org. Lawmakers reciprocated by quickly overriding the vast bulk of them.
The big-ticket items that Mr. Romney proposed when he entered office in January 2003 went largely unrealized, and some that were achieved turned out to have a comparatively minor impact. A wholesale restructuring of state government was dead on arrival in the legislature; an ambitious overhaul of the state university system was stillborn; a consolidation of transportation fiefs never took place.
Mr. Romney lobbied successfully to block changes in the state's much-admired charter school program, but his own education reforms went mostly unrealized. His promise to lure new business and create jobs in a state that had been staggered by the collapse of the 2000 dot-com boom never quite bore fruit; unemployment dropped less than a percentage point during his four years, but for most of that time, much of the decline was attributed to the fact that any new jobs were being absorbed by a shrinking work force.
Mr. Romney won lawmakers' consent to streamline a tangled health and human services bureaucracy, but the savings amounted to but $7 million a year. He entered office considering an eight-state compact to battle climate change, but left office outside the consortium, saying it cost too much.
''He put on the table in his inaugural address, and then in his budget, a series of proposed reforms like civil service reform, pension reform -- going right to the heart of the lion's den,'' Michael Widmer, president of the nonpartisan Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation, said in an interview. But excepting health care, ''he never followed up. There was a handful of successes, but there was never a full-blown or focused program in the sense of saying, 'Here's our vision.' ''
Mr. Romney's former aides vigorously disagree.
''That's an overwrought type of critique,'' said Timothy Murphy, the health and human services secretary under Mr. Romney. ''If you take a look at the things the governor set out to do, we accomplished a lot. The budgets were more than balanced -- we generated surpluses.''
And, he said, ''We did pass the most consequential piece of health care legislation in this state in 25 years.''
Mr. Romney was pushing on an open door on the 2006 initiative -- Democrats had long dreamed of providing health coverage to almost every resident.
Jane Edmonds, who headed the state's Labor and Workforce Development agency, recounted a meeting at the start of Mr. Romney's term in which he handed out a list of campaign promises to his staff and ordered them carried out within four years.
''My opinion is that he delivered on almost all those promises,'' she said. ''We had 8 or 10 of them and we carried them all out.''
Some of Mr. Romney's harshest critics concede his competence and his grasp of Massachusetts' problems and needs. Many of the initiatives he took into office were arguably nonpartisan; he brought to the job the same gimlet-eyed scrutiny of costs and revenues that he employed as an investment manager to spot potentially profitable companies.
But in contrast to his statements in the debate, many say, Mr. Romney neither mastered the art of reaching across the aisle nor achieved unusual success as governor. To the contrary, they say, his relations with Democrats could be acrimonious, and his ability to get big things done could be just as shackled as is President Obama's ability to push his agenda through a hostile House of Representatives.
Mr. Romney could be appealing and persuasive, they say. But he also could display a certain political tone-deafness and a failure to nurture the constituencies he needed to make his initiatives succeed.
Mr. Romney promoted his record on Wednesday as a bipartisan leader by noting that he met regularly with the Democratic leadership of the Massachusetts legislature. But that apparently was not enough to keep afloat a relationship that had been rancorous from the beginning.
In the opening months of his tenure, Mr. Romney vetoed a House plan to create new committees and raise legislative pay, and the legislators rejected his flagship proposal, a nearly 600-page plan to overhaul the state bureaucracy. ''They had a deteriorating relationship during the first two years,'' said Jeffrey Berry, a political science professor and expert on state politics at Tufts University.
Mr. Romney proved to have a taste for vetoes, killing legislative initiatives in his first two years at more than twice the rate of his more popular Republican predecessor, William F. Weld, The Boston Globe reported in 2004.
Some seemed almost designed to rankle legislators: one rejected an increase in disability payments to a police officer who had slipped on an ice patch. Others reflect his ramrod-straight views on ethics and government waste -- knocking down a special pension deal for a state legislator; rejecting a subsidy to Medicaid payments so nursing homes could provide kosher meals to Jewish residents.
''He seemed to take great delight in vetoing bills,'' recalled his director of legislative affairs, John O'Keefe. "Some of the bills we would chuckle when we wrote the veto message.''
By 2004, the second year of his term, Mr. Romney was provoked enough to mount an unprecedented campaign to unseat Democratic legislators, spending $3 million in Republican Party money and hiring a nationally known political strategist, Michael Murphy, to plan the battle.
The effort failed spectacularly. Republicans lost seats, leaving them with their smallest legislative delegation since 1867. Democratic lawmakers were reported to have been deeply angered by the campaign's tactics.
On close scrutiny, some of the bipartisan successes that Mr. Romney claimed in the Wednesday debate turn out to by peppered with asterisks.
On education, Mr. Romney was correct in stating that Massachusetts students were ranked first in the nation during his tenure. Students in grades four and eight took top honors in reading and mathematics on the 2003 National Assessment of Educational Progress.
However, educators largely credit an overarching reform of state schools 10 years earlier under Governor Weld. The reforms doubled state spending on schools and brought standards and accountability to administrators and students.
''Governor Romney does not get to take the credit for achieving that No. 1 ranking,'' said Mike Gilbert, field director for the nonprofit Massachusetts Association of School Committees, ''but it did happen while he was in office.''
Mr. Romney's claim that he was responsible for 19 separate tax cuts is also technically accurate, but not the full story. In 2005, for example, Mr. Romney's administration wrote legislation refunding $250 million in capital gains taxes -- but the bill came only in response to a court ruling that the taxes had been illegally withheld in 2002.
Many of the other tax cuts were first proposed by the legislature, not Mr. Romney, and others were routine extensions of existing tax reductions or were one-day sales tax holidays.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Mitt Romney after signing Massachusetts's landmark health care overhaul bill at Faneuil Hall in April 2006. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Romney with the new Democratic speaker of the Massachusetts House, Representative Salvatore DiMasi, in 2004. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELISE AMENDOLA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); LOBBYING (77%); VETO (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); ELECTIONS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); LABOR FORCE (71%); WHOLESALERS (68%); TAX LAW (64%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012



247 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Taming Volatile Raw Data for Jobs Reports

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
7:32 p.m. | Updated The unemployment rate fell to 7.8 percent in September, its lowest level since President Obama took office. With just a month to go before the election, the news seemed too good to be true, at least for some Mitt Romney supporters.
Almost immediately some conservative pundits began accusing the Labor Department, which released the jobs numbers on Friday, of cooking the books. After all, the household survey - the survey that the unemployment rate comes from - showed that the number of people with jobs rose 873,000 in September, though the gain had averaged 164,000 each month earlier this year. 
These numbers are always tremendously volatile, but the reasons are statistical, not political. The numbers come from a tiny survey with a margin of error of 400,000. Every month there are wild swings, and no one takes them at face value. The swings usually attract less attention, though, because the political stakes are usually lower.
The numbers, by the way, are especially imprecise (and prone to revision) when the economy is making a turn, or when regular seasonal patterns start to change. And there is reason to believe that one particular seasonal pattern - the start of the college school year - may be partly responsible for the big swing in September.
One of the biggest sources of volatility in the last couple of months (and one of the major contributors to the big bump in job-getters in September) was the group of workers between 20 and 24 years old.
Historically, the employment levels for that group have dropped sharply in September, probably because many people in their early 20s are leaving summer jobs and going back to school.
For each year since 1948, the average level of employment for this group has fallen by 398,000 from August to September. In fact, before this year, employment for this age group had risen just two times in that period: 1954 (a gain of 5,000), and 1961 (a gain of 22,000).
This year was the third time on record that the number of people in this age group gained jobs in September, and the gain was big: 101,000.
How to explain this major deviation from the historical trend, other than conspiracy theories?
If you look back at August, an unusually high share of this age group stopped working, compared with past employment patterns in August. From 1948 to 2011, the number of those 20 to 24 who had jobs fell by an average of 98,000 from July to August. This past August, it fell by 530,000, the biggest loss on record.
Over the last couple of decades, in fact, the job losses for this age group have been growing each August, suggesting that over time young people have been leaving their summer jobs earlier and earlier.
In other words, seasonal patterns might be evolving - people starting school and leaving their summer jobs earlier in the summer - which has big implications for how the Labor Department digests and reports the monthly employment data.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics adjusts its raw survey data to correct for seasonal patterns, and since a decline in employment is expected for those 20 to 24, the economists at the bureau increased the level of employment for this group in the seasonally adjusted numbers.
Changes in seasonal patterns like this one can introduce more error into the headline numbers, and can at least partly explain why the overall change in household employment looked so much bigger in September than seems plausible. After seasonal adjustment, the increase in employment among those 20 to 24 was given as 368,000. That's about 42 percent of the overall increase in employment growth for people of all ages. (After making seasonal adjustments on the August figures, the employment level for 20- to 24-year-olds was reported as declining by 250,000.)
All of which is to say the bureau aims to release the most informative numbers it can. But it is seeking to measure the state of the American job market quickly, based on surveys that are inherently incomplete - and the adjustments that are meant to fill in the gaps have their own shortcomings, particularly when seasonal trends change.
In case you still believe that the models the bureau uses are being manipulated to put President Obama in a better light, note that there are no political appointees currently serving in the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The employees are all career civil servants who have worked under both Republican and Democratic administrations. (The commissioner of the bureau is supposed to be a political appointee, but that position is vacant. The acting commissioner, John M. Galvin, has held the position since January, and he is a career civil servant.)
Economists at the Bureau of Labor Statistics regularly adjust the models they use to account for factors like seasonality and the number of new companies entering the economy, and the revisions are often very large.
Economists outside the bureau have been weighing in, too, both on how the latest numbers should be adjusted and what the next few months of jobs reports should look like. A paper presented last month as part of the Brookings Papers on Economic Activity series, for example, incorporated data on people flowing into and out of unemployment to forecast that the unemployment rate would most likely stagnate for a few months to come.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lamar Smith with a job recruiter, Esther Rush, in Florida. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); SEASONAL WORKERS (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); TRENDS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (78%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012



248 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Defiant Message Amid Iran Currency Crisis

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

 BODY:
Senior Iranian clerics intensified their anti-Western criticism on Friday, calling the near-collapse of the national currency this past week a consequence of an American-led conspiracy to wage an economic war on Iran, and predicting that the pressure would ease.
The message, highlighted in the main weekly sermon at Friday Prayer, appeared to be an effort to show a unified and defiant response to the crisis over the currency, the rial, which lost roughly 40 percent of its value against the dollar in a stampede of selling to black-market currency traders by Iranians worried about their country's economic stability. 
A televised plea on Tuesday by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to stop the selling seemed only to heighten the anxiety, and a crackdown by the police against the currency traders and the arrests of suspected speculators on Wednesday escalated into a large protest in Tehran that included merchants in the politically powerful Grand Bazaar.
That was the first significant demonstration of anger over the devalued rial, which has injected new uncertainty into the daily lives of Iranians by worsening the already high inflation rate. Many Iranians and outside economic experts have attributed the problems to what they call Mr. Ahmadinejad's mismanagement as well as the accumulating effects of the Western sanctions imposed on Iran over its disputed nuclear energy program.
None of the statements about the crisis in the official Iranian news media on Friday offered a hint of any new solutions to the crisis or suggested that the government was willing to compromise on the nuclear program in exchange for reduced sanctions.
Instead they exhorted Iranians to show fortitude and uphold the legacy of resilience amid other crises, like the eight-year war with Iraq in the 1980s.
''The pressure today imposed on us by the world arrogance is full-fledged economic war,'' Ayatollah Ahmad Khatami, a top cleric and the Friday Prayer leader, said in his message, carried on official news outlets. ''This pressure will not last. Our people have been tested, and they will not be worn down.''
The Fars News Agency quoted a close aide of the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, as saying that Iran's enemies were mistaken if they believed the sanctions would force Iran to capitulate in the dispute over the nuclear program, which Iran has said is for peaceful purposes. Western powers, however, suspect Iran is developing the ability to make nuclear weapons.
''Iran is overcoming the psychological war and conspiracy that the enemy has brought to the currency and gold market, and this war is constantly fluctuating,'' said the aide, Gholam Ali Haddad Adel. ''The arrogant powers, in their crude way, think that the nation of Iran is ready to let go of the Islamic Revolution through economic pressure, but we are establishing Iran's economic strength.''
The message of defiance came as Western officials were contemplating further tightening the sanctions, which have severely limited Iran's ability to sell oil and have expelled Iranian banks from a global network that is crucial in conducting financial transactions.
Proponents of stricter economic penalties against Iran have been emboldened by the currency crisis, calling it evidence that the sanctions are working.
Mark D. Wallace, chief executive of United Against Nuclear Iran, a New York-based group that has worked to persuade multinational companies to sever business ties with Iran, said that by its calculation Iran's currency had fallen by 80 percent in the past year.
In a statement on the group's Web site, he called for an economic blockade on Iran to increase the pressure, saying ''the regime must be forced to choose between having a nuclear weapon or a functioning economy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (94%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); DEVALUATION (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); RELIGION (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); GOLD MARKETS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (65%); INFLATION (52%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (72%); ALI KHAMENEI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012



249 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: In New Jersey Senate Race, Sticking Close to the Script

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
MONTCLAIR, N.J. -- At the opening of the debate between the candidates for United States Senate here on Thursday night, the moderator noted that their campaigns had slid into the familiar broad themes of Republican versus Democrat: he cares only about the wealthy; he is a tax-and-spender. The moderator pressed them for specifics: What is one thing that makes your opponent less qualified than you?
The Democratic incumbent, Senator Robert Menendez, responded that his Republican opponent, State Senator Joe Kyrillos, supported tax cuts for the wealthy. Mr. Kyrillos blamed Democrats in Congress for 43 straight months of unemployment above 8 percent. The two men have clung to generic partisan outlines throughout the campaign, with few specifics or exchanges to remind voters that the race is not taking place in Any State, U.S.A. 
Mr. Menendez, running for his second full term, is ahead in polls and is hoping to stay there by capitalizing on President Obama's popularity in New Jersey.
Mr. Kyrillos, a close friend of Gov. Chris Christie, is hoping to recreate the governor's electoral success in 2009. But he is running in a state that has not elected a Republican to the Senate since 1972.
Mr. Kyrillos's campaign has appealed broadly to voter frustration with Washington. ''If you think things are just fine, that things are O.K. here in New Jersey and across the land, well, then you'll choose my opponent again,'' he said at the hourlong debate at Montclair State University, which was televised live.
''But if you think that unemployment doubling under his watch, the deficit quadrupling, our national debt doubling is unacceptable,'' he added, ''then you're going to make a change.'' (National unemployment figures reported on Friday showed the rate dropping below 8 percent, to 7.8.)
Echoing Mitt Romney, the Republican presidential nominee, Mr. Kyrillos added: ''I believe in America. I believe we can do better.''
Mr. Menendez, 58, has sought to present himself as the champion of the middle class, and to lump his opponent with the extreme wing of the Republican Party, arguing that he cannot simultaneously cut the deficit and cut taxes, as Mr. Kyrillos has proposed. (Mr. Menendez borrowed from Mr. Obama, who borrowed from former President Bill Clinton: ''That arithmetic doesn't work.'')
He accused Mr. Kyrillos of supporting the ''Paul Ryan budget,'' which would privatize parts of Social Security and offer Medicare vouchers. Mr. Kyrillos rejected the association, saying, ''We're going to have a Joe Kyrillos budget.''
Both men speak often about their immigrant parents, and both have long histories in state party politics. Mr. Menendez comes out of the rough and tumble of Hudson County, which is overwhelmingly Democratic. He was elected mayor of Union City at 32, and later to the State Assembly, State Senate and Congress, before being appointed in 2006 to his seat by Jon S. Corzine, his predecessor, who had been elected governor. He helped his party narrowly hold on to its Senate majority against the Republican headwinds of 2010.
Mr. Kyrillos, 52, comes from well-to-do Monmouth County, which has leaned Republican and includes well-off suburbs. He served four years in the Assembly before winning his Senate seat in 1992, and served as chairman of the state's Republican Party from 2001 to 2004.
Mr. Christie introduced Mr. Kyrillos to the woman he would marry. He has been a loyal soldier for the governor, supporting a property-tax cap and initiatives to reverse the effects of a court ruling that requires the state to help equalize spending between rich and poor school districts.
In a Fairleigh Dickinson PublicMind poll early last month, Mr. Menendez was ahead, 50 percent to 36 percent, among registered and likely voters. He had $10.2 million when the campaigns last reported their totals in July. Mr. Kyrillos had $3.1 million. But Mr. Menendez faced a tough race in 2006, and is known for running as though he were 10 points behind.
His campaign has accused Mr. Kyrillos of changing his position on abortion rights -- he says he supports them but marked ''pro life'' on a questionnaire last year -- and wanting to overturn popular portions of the Affordable Care Act. The campaign has pressed for women's votes, noting that Mr. Kyrillos declined to vote on a resolution supporting an equal-pay act.
Mr. Kyrillos, more velveteen and affable, does not come off as an extremist. He said that he was unfamiliar with the questionnaire, but that he supported parental notifications and waiting periods for abortions -- positions, he said, most voters also support.
At the debate on Thursday, Mr. Kyrillos declined to answer when asked if he would support a Supreme Court nominee who would most likely vote to overturn the law barring federal recognition of same-sex marriage. He said only that he would give a fair hearing to a president's nominees.
He has struggled against low name recognition. In an August poll by the Eagleton Institute at Rutgers, 24 percent of Republican voters did not know him.
That poll was done before he began running television advertisements. And his campaign said it expected Mr. Christie to participate in several events for him in the month before Election Day.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert Menendez, top, a Democrat, and Joe Kyrillos, a Republican, have offered few specifics in their campaigns. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MEL EVANS/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%)

PERSON: BOB MENENDEZ (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MITT ROMNEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012



250 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Rate Sinks to 7.8%, Its Lowest for Obama's Term

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN and MARK LANDLER; John H. Cushman Jr. contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The jobless rate abruptly dropped in September to its lowest level since the month President Obama took office, indicating a steadier recovery than previously thought and delivering another jolt to the presidential campaign.
The improvement lent ballast to Mr. Obama's case that the economy is on the mend and threatened the central argument of Mitt Romney's candidacy, that Mr. Obama's failed stewardship is reason enough to replace him.
Employers added a modest 114,000 jobs last month, the Labor Department reported on Friday, but estimates for what had been disappointing gains in July and August were revised upward to more respectable levels.
Unemployment fell to 7.8 percent from 8.1 percent, crossing what had become a symbolic threshold in the campaign. Mr. Romney was deprived of a favorite line of attack, mocking the president for ''43 straight months with unemployment above 8 percent.'' 
The new numbers may have less economic than political import, since they represent only one month of data that can be quite volatile and give little indication that the plodding recovery has accelerated.
''We've been amazingly resilient thus far in the face of all these headwinds,'' said Ellen Zentner, the senior United States economist for Nomura Securities International, referring to global obstacles like the slowdown in China and domestic ones like the looming expiration of tax breaks. ''But it's awfully hard to see getting significantly above that growth range given that these headwinds are still in place.''
Still, an energized Mr. Obama seized on the statistics as he campaigned in Virginia and Ohio, seeking to regain his footing after a listless performance in the first debate this week. Mr. Romney, whose muscular showing in Denver had emboldened his campaign, scrambled to play down the report, saying it merely confirmed that millions of Americans had given up looking for work.
In back-to-back rallies in Virginia, the president declared, ''This country has come too far to turn back.'' His Republican challenger then insisted, ''We don't have to stay on the path we've been on. We can do better.''
Some Romney backers, led by the former chief executive of General Electric, John F. Welch Jr., suggested that the White House had massaged the Labor Department data to make it more favorable. The Obama administration, economic experts and some Republicans dismissed that notion as a groundless conspiracy theory.
The jobs report was preceded by other signs of growing economic strength, including a jump in consumer confidence, the strongest auto sales in four years, rallying stock prices and, at long last, a stabilization of housing prices.
According to the monthly survey of employers, the bulk of the gains came from service jobs, particularly in education and health care. Though government downsizing has been a drag on the recovery, government over all added 10,000 jobs in September, the third consecutive month of gains.
The nation's employers have added an average of 146,000 jobs a month in 2012, just ahead of the numbers that are considered necessary to absorb new workers into the labor force. ''This is not what a real recovery looks like,'' Mr. Romney said in a statement.
Areas of weakness included manufacturing, one of the bright spots that Mr. Obama has showcased throughout the re-election campaign. It lost 16,000 jobs after a revised 22,000 drop in August in the face of a global slowdown. The number of temporary jobs, usually considered a harbinger of future growth, fell 2,000. Speaking to a rain-soaked crowd of 9,000 at Cleveland State University, Mr. Obama said, ''Today's news should give us some encouragement. It shouldn't be an excuse for the other side to talk down the economy just to try to score some political points.''
''We've made too much progress to return to the policies that led to this crisis in the first place,'' the president said to cheers.
The nation now has nearly the same number of jobs as when Mr. Obama took office in January 2009. Since the economy stopped hemorrhaging jobs in February 2010, there has been an increase of more than 4.3 million. A mere 61,000-job increase would allow Mr. Obama to claim a net gain in jobs over his tenure.
The White House has already made that claim based on one measurement. In an annual recalibration last month, the Bureau of Labor Statistics said 400,000 more jobs were added in the 12 months that ended in March than previously thought. Such revisions are common, but the adjustment process is slow -- that new benchmark will not be incorporated into the monthly jobs figures until early next year.
Mr. Romney, on other hand, said the lower rate spoke to a nation short of hope. The rate, he asserted, would be about 11 percent if the same percentage of people were looking for work now as on the day Mr. Obama was elected.
''If you just dropped out of the labor force, if you just give up and say, 'Look, I can't go back to work, I'm just going to stay home,' if you just drop out altogether, why, you're no longer part of the employment statistics, so it looks like unemployment is getting better,'' Mr. Romney said at a farm equipment dealership in Abingdon, Va.
That was true in August, when the rate dropped to 8.1 percent, from 8.3 percent. But this time, the statistics showed that more people were working, not that discouraged job seekers had stopped looking for work.
The jobs report is based on two surveys, one of businesses and one of households, that can present different pictures.
While the survey of businesses showed mediocre growth, the household survey had a whopping increase of 873,000 people working in September. The household survey is much more volatile and prone to sampling error, but it captures aspects of the labor market that the business survey does not, like self-employment and household workers. Economists said that this month's household survey probably overstated the improvement, but that its credibility was bolstered by an unexpectedly robust rise in consumer confidence.
The polling firm Gallup pinpointed the improvement in consumer confidence last month to the first day of the Democratic National Convention and attributed it almost entirely to increased optimism among Democrats, while confidence among Republicans remained at low levels. But Gallup could not say whether politics or economic conditions had driven the change.
The employment gains were not spread equally. While for older workers, the unemployment rate was the lowest in years, the unemployment rate for black men improved only 0.1 percentage point and the portion of all black men with jobs actually fell, to 57.5 percent.
There was no movement between August and September in a broader measure of underemployment, which includes the jobless who have stopped looking for work and those who work part time but would like to work full time. That stayed at 14.7 percent, though it is down from 16.4 percent a year earlier.
And 4.8 million people are in the group that has had the toughest time finding work -- those who have been unemployed for longer than six months.
Sarah Thurman, a civil engineer in Kansas City, Mo., has been looking since May 2010. ''The smaller firms are starting to post job openings, and that hasn't been like that for over two years, but there's so many of us without jobs that there's so much competition,'' she said. ''I'm hearing from the headhunters that it's going to be opening up, it's going to be opening up -- but when?''
Like Republicans and Democrats, consumers and businesses have divergent views of the economic situation. Consumers have brightened along with the better outlook for employment, calmer stock markets and whispers of rising home values.
Business leaders have been hanging back, more focused on a global slowdown and domestic concerns. They say they are uncertain what the election will mean for the business climate and are waiting in part for a resolution of the host of tax increases and budget cuts that will be set off at the end of the year if Congress fails to act.
The discrepancy between consumers' mood and companies' outlook can be easily explained, economists said. ''Businesses are much more forward-looking,'' said Ms. Zentner at Nomura.
In a survey of 400 chief financial officers conducted this summer, Grant Thornton, a management consulting firm, found that only 37 percent foresaw the possibility of adding workers while 18 percent said they expected to shrink over the next six months.
Harry Kazazian, the chief executive of Exxel Outdoors, a maker of camping equipment based in Alabama, said the election, the fiscal cliff and rapidly shifting regulations had put him in a cautious mood.
With sales on the rise, Exxel has slowly resumed a capital investment plan that it suspended three years ago. ''We're moving forward, but we're doing it in steps rather than being much more aggressive and putting ourselves out there,'' Mr. Kazazian said. ''I wouldn't be surprised if things start turning the other way, meaning down.''
But at a Walmart in Atlanta, shoppers were loosening the reins a bit, buying what they described as small indulgences like scented candle oil and seasonal beer.
Michael Peacock, 43, said that although his house was in foreclosure, he could sense enough activity in his chosen field, online marketing, that he could afford to turn down some work outside his specialty. ''I'm not superconfident in the economy. But in my line of work, things have been getting better. There seems to be some improvement.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael Peacock of Atlanta said his house was in foreclosure but he thought his field, online marketing, was improving. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Sarah Thurman lost her job in May 2010. With her are her children, Charlotte, 2, and Thomas, 4. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE HEBERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) CHARTS: The Labor Picture in September: UNEMPLOYMENT RATE
UNEMPLOYMENT DEMOGRAPHICS
DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT
EMPLOYMENT
SHARE OF POPULATION
'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT
UNEMPLOYMENT BY EDUCATION LEVEL
TYPE OF WORK
 AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (64%); HOME PRICES (64%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (50%)

COMPANY: NOMURA SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL INC (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JACK WELCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012



251 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: As Its Economy Sags, India Asks a Critic to Come Home and Help Out

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ; Jim Yardley contributed reporting.

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- In April, the economist Raghuram G. Rajan gave a speech to a group of graduating Indian students in which he criticized the country's policy makers for ''repeating failed experiment after failed experiment,'' rather than learning from the experiences of other countries. A week later, he assailed the government again, this time in a speech attended by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh.
But instead of drawing a rebuke from India's often thin-skinned leaders, he got a job offer. In August, Mr. Singh, who has frequently sought Mr. Rajan's advice, called and asked him to take a leave from his job as a professor at the University of Chicago to return to India, where he was born, to help revive the country's flagging economy. Within weeks, he was at work as the chief economic adviser in the Finance Ministry.
Analysts say the appointment of an outspoken academic like Mr. Rajan, along with the recent push by New Delhi to reduce energy subsidies and open up retailing, insurance and aviation to foreign investment, signal that India's policy makers appear to be serious about tackling the nation's economic problems. 
Mr. Rajan has advocated changing India's financial system, which is dominated by state-owned banks, by among other things loosening government restrictions on foreign banks and other financial institutions. He has also been critical of the country's crony capitalism, likening its business tycoons to Russia's oligarchs. He has argued that India needs to build stronger, impartial agencies to make the allotment of licenses and natural resources more transparent.
And India might finally be ready to make such changes, he said in an interview in his office here.
''I believe that one of the virtues of a functioning democracy is that they prevent things from getting too bad,'' he said. ''When things get bad, democracy creates the space to make improvements.''
Economists say Mr. Rajan, and his boss, the recently reappointed finance minister, Palaniappan Chidambaram, face daunting challenges in their effort to revive the slowing economy, which is expected to post growth of 5.5 percent this year, down from an average of 7.7 percent a year over the last decade. The credit rating agencies Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings have warned that they may downgrade India's sovereign debt to junk status if it doesn't bring its ballooning budget deficit under control.
Many of the government's proposals, including reduced subsidies for food and fuel, are deeply unpopular. Moreover, the governing alliance, led by the Indian National Congress Party, recently lost its majority in the lower house of Parliament, which will make it hard to enact legislation.
''Most emerging market governments only carry out reforms when they have their backs to the wall,'' said Ruchir Sharma, an executive at Morgan Stanley and author of the recent book ''Breakout Nations: In Pursuit of the Next Economic Miracles.'' ''The government is under siege and they are reacting to that.''
Though Mr. Rajan's current post does not carry any executive authority, his return to India has attracted attention because many policy analysts consider him to be the leading candidate to take over the top job at India's central bank, the Reserve Bank of India, next year when the current governor, Duvvuri Subbarao, retires.
Mr. Rajan, 49, became famous in the economics profession for his prescience in warning about the growing risks in the financial system at a Federal Reserve conference in 2005, three years before the failure of Lehman Brothers. He argued that innovations and deregulation appeared to have made the global financial system riskier, rather than safer and more stable as many economists and top policy makers like Alan Greenspan then believed.
The son of an Indian diplomat, Mr. Rajan grew up around the world and in New Delhi, earning degrees from prestigious Indian universities before studying economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. His first big policy job came when he was appointed the chief economist of the International Monetary Fund. Since 2008, he has been an external adviser to Mr. Singh, who is his highest-placed champion in India and who also asked him to lead a committee to propose changes to the country's financial system.
Mr. Rajan has made no secret of his distress with the slow pace of change in the country in recent years. But friends and associates say he believes that policy makers now feel under pressure to speed up the country's transition to a more liberal economy because growth has slowed sharply ahead of the next national election scheduled for 2014.
''At the end of the day, he sees a window here,'' said Kenneth Rogoff, an economist at Harvard University who was Mr. Rajan's predecessor at the International Monetary Fund.
Mr. Chidambaram, the finance minister, said he had come to expect unvarnished advice from Mr. Rajan. ''I've known Raghu for quite some time,'' he said, ''and when he joined the office here I told him one thing: 'You are the adviser. You just tell us the truth.' I think Raghu will do exactly that. He will tell the people of India the truth."
In the interview, Mr. Rajan said he and Mr. Singh had discussed his return to India for several years. While he dismissed the speculation about the Indian central bank job, he said he saw his new position in the government as an ''open-ended opportunity,'' not a short-term stint. He says he put aside plans to write a book on democracy and capitalism to take his new job.
He is committed to teaching classes in the fall quarter in Chicago but plans to move to India full time in December. His wife and his son will join him at the end of the school year; he also has a daughter in college.
''I feel I owe something to the country,'' he said. ''Also, I think the chance of even having some small influence that helps, that is multiplied by 1.2 billion lives, it's such an immense opportunity.''
Mr. Rajan said he would like to focus his efforts on three big themes: liberalizing India's financial system; making it easier to do business, particularly for entrepreneurs and manufacturers; and fixing India's dysfunctional food distribution system, which wastes a lot of food even as many of the country's poor are malnourished.
But the Indian bureaucracy's resistance to new ideas, which he highlighted in his April speech, may well stymie Mr. Rajan, just as it did his predecessor, Kaushik Basu, an economist from Cornell University who was recently appointed the chief economist of the World Bank.
Mr. Rajan needs to learn quickly ''on the job in a situation where learning is not very easy,'' said Rajiv Kumar, who heads the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry and is a former Indian government economist.
Mr. Rajan said he understood the risks but believed that India's policy makers had been more open to change than many critics acknowledged. He pointed out that despite significant initial opposition, including from the central bank, Indian officials have adopted many of the proposals from the committee he led, including allowing Indian banks to open branches in most of the country, though not in big cities, without the Reserve Bank's permission.
''The message from our report is that nothing in India will get done immediately,'' he said. ''It's by the time your report gets forgotten, becomes part of the woodwork, that it really starts having an effect.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Raghuram G. Rajan criticized Indian policy makers during a speech in April at the Indian School of Business. In August, the Indian government offered him a job. (PHOTOGRAPH BY INDIAN SCHOOL OF BUSINESS)
 Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAVEENDRAN/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (86%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (84%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (66%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (65%); CREDIT BUREAUS (64%); SOVEREIGN RISK (64%); NATIONAL DEBT (63%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%)

COMPANY: FITCH RATINGS LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) ILLINOIS, USA (71%) INDIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012



252 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
REBELS SAY WEST'S INACTION
IS RADICALIZING SYRIA
Fighters seeking the overthrow of President Bashar al-Assad warn that the Syrian people are being radicalized by a combination of a grinding conflict and their belief that they have been abandoned by a watching world. Frontline leaders of the rebellion say that the West risks losing a potential ally in the Middle East if the Assad government should fall. PAGE A4
GERMANY'S SACRAMENT TAX 
One of Germany's highest courts rankled Catholic bishops by ruling that the state recognized the right of Catholics to leave the church -- and therefore avoid paying a tax that is used to support religious institutions. The Catholic Bishops' Conference responded with an uncompromising edict: no payments, no sacraments. PAGE A5
National
HOMELESS FIGHT BACK
AGAINST PANHANDLING BANS
As cities across the country crack down on an apparent rise in aggressive panhandling, advocates for the homeless say the bans go too far. Several recent legal decisions have favored a homeless man in Utah who has been arguing that his right to free speech is being violated. PAGE A10
EARLY SNOW IN MINNESOTA
In the northern Minnesota town of Roseau, 14 inches of snow fell. National Weather Service meteorologists say snowfall will be above normal this winter in an arc of the country stretching from Minnesota to New York. PAGE A10
UNIVERSITY PRESS STAYS OPEN
Administrators at the University of Missouri completed a reversal of their decision to close the university's publishing house when they announced that the longtime editor in chief Clair Willcox would be rehired. The controversy highlighted a broader challenge that university presses are grappling with nationwide amid shrinking campus budgets and increasing digital publishing. PAGE A11
New York
FIRST REPORTING THE NEWS
OF THE PEARL HARBOR ATTACK
When Lester Bernstein, 92, previewed the new exhibition ''World War II & NYC'' at the New-York Historical Society, he was reminded of his experience on Dec. 7, 1941. As a 21-year-old reporter, he became the first person at The New York Times to provide the public with news that was already changing the world, the city and his life. PAGE A14
LIFE BEYOND THE BOWERY
John Cornelius Foley, known to many as the Man in the Box, used to live in a long, wooden box chained to a ''No Parking'' sign on Broome Street -- just one creative living arrangement in more than 20 years on the Bowery. Now a case worker has managed to place him in a newly renovated apartment building in the Bedford Park neighborhood in the Bronx. Crime Scene. PAGE A14
Business
PIG FARMERS FACE PRESSURE
ON THE SIZE OF THE STY
Some corporate pork buyers, including Dunkin' Donuts, announced that over the next decade they would no longer buy pork from pigs housed in tiny gestation crates. But farmers argue that the crates are good for the sow -- and consumers. Earlier efforts to convince the pork industry to use larger pens have had mixed success. PAGE B1
UPENDING INDIA'S ECONOMY
The economist Raghuram G. Rajan's calls for widespread and speedy changes to India's economy are being heard by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who asked him to leave the University of Chicago and return to his native country to help revive the flagging economy. PAGE B3
SAVING FOR MEDICAL COSTS
Several recent studies show that few people are factoring rising health care costs into their retirement plans. Medicare does not cover all health expenses, so out-of-pocket costs could include deductibles, prescription premiums, eye exams and glasses, hearing aids and perhaps long-term care. PAGE B5
Sports
CLUB SOCCER RULES PULL
AT PLAYERS' HOMETIME TIES
With players at academies affiliated with U.S. Soccer no longer permitted to play for their high school -- an effort to mimic the international player developmental model -- thousands of boys nationwide have been forced into the delicate position of choosing between club and community. PAGE B9
COLLEGE COACHES' INFLUENCE
John R. Silber, the longtime president and chancellor of Boston University, thought that college football coaches held too much power and proposed that none of them be allowed to coach on game day. Silber identified an issue that would become more prominent in the decades that followed, as seen in the growing list of coaches who have accumulated immense power and behaved badly. PAGE B9
Arts
DEMISE OF 'REBECCA'
COSTS MORE THAN MONEY
For more than 100 people put out of work by the cancellation of the $12 million Broadway musical ''Rebecca,'' the hits are both financial and emotional. The show, which was set to be one of the bigger musicals of the season, was called off the day before rehearsals were going to start, and it has left many actors and stage managers scrambling for new jobs. PAGE C1
THE LAST MAN'S LONELINESS
Heroism is thrust upon the misfit protagonist of Eugène Ionesco's absurdist comedy ''Rhinoceros,'' presented by the Théâtre de la Ville of Paris at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. The director Emmanuel Demarcy-Mota's staging marshals a host of stylish theatrical effects to support the sometimes heavy-treading play about the human need to conform, writes Charles Isherwood. PAGE C1
ENGINEERING A PLANE CRASH
The series ''Curiosity'' sets out to answer questions by getting hold of a jet, packing it full of mannequins and cameras and monitors, and then crashing it. Review by Neil Genzlinger. PAGE C4
Obituaries
MAURICE FRIEDMAN, 90
He helped popularize the ideas of Austrian-born philosopher Martin Buber, writing more than a dozen books about Buber's work, including a three-volume work published in the early 1980s that is still considered the definitive English-language biography. PAGE B8
SAM STEIGER, 83
A New Yorker who transformed himself into a Western rancher, he served five terms in the House as a Republican from Arizona and barged brashly through a series of scandals and controversies. PAGE B8
Op-Ed
GAIL COLLINS PAGE A17
CHARLES M. BLOW PAGE A17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (90%); PANHANDLING (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); WEATHER (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (75%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (75%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); PUBLISHING (69%); NEWS REPORTING (69%); WORLD WAR II (67%); METEOROLOGY (66%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (64%); HISTORY (62%); HOG & PIG FARMING (60%)

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (54%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (60%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (60%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) MINNESOTA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GERMANY (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012



253 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Leading Maryland and Virginia, With Stars on the Rise

BYLINE: By ADESHINA EMMANUEL

 BODY:
Maryland and Virginia share a history rich in both rivalry and cooperation, and the same can be said for their governors.
Both Martin O'Malley, the Democrat who leads Maryland, and Bob McDonnell, his Republican counterpart in Virginia, are rising political stars. Each is chairman of his party's national governors' association, and each is a standard-bearer for his party's presidential nominee. Each is also mentioned as a possible 2016 presidential candidate.
Some people say that much of the talk about a Maryland-Virginia face-off is overblown. As for the governors, each says that if there is in fact a rivalry, his state is winning it.
''I'm just trying to do what is right for Virginia, and I'm sure Governor O'Malley is trying to do the same, but we have different philosophies and different outcomes,'' said Mr. McDonnell, a former member of the Virginia House of Delegates and a former state attorney general.
Much of that difference has to do with taxes. Mr. McDonnell, elected in 2009 and limited by law to one term, takes pride in his efforts to burnish Virginia's reputation as a low-tax, business-friendly state. Sales tax is 5 percent in Virginia and 6 percent in Maryland. Top-bracket income-tax payers pay 5.75 percent in Virginia while those in Maryland pay 9 percent. Virginia's corporate tax rate is 6 percent and Maryland's is 8.25 percent. Virginia's unemployment rate is 5.9 percent, compared with 7.1 percent in Maryland -- both lower than the national average.
Working with Republican majorities in both chambers of the state legislature, Mr. McDonnell has been able to balance the state's budget without raising taxes, though critics have derided some of his solutions as gimmicks, notably some approaches to financing future state pensions. And, like other Virginia governors from both parties, he has been chided for putting off long-term investments in highways and mass transit.
Mr. O'Malley, a former Baltimore mayor, has a reputation, for better or for worse, of raising taxes -- more than 20 separate increases since becoming governor in 2008. It is a legacy that a Republican opponent might find an irresistible target if Mr. O'Malley ever runs for president.
Early in his first term he called a special session in the General Assembly that resulted in $1.4 billion in increases in taxes on sales, tobacco, personal income and corporations. He also levied a temporary tax on millionaires. More recently, with the state facing a $1 billion budget deficit in 2013, he signed a tax increase on Maryland's top earners that ensured them one of the highest income tax rates in the country.
Mr. O'Malley argues that tax rates are just one measure of a state's standing.
''On the other side of the river, especially under Governor McDonnell, they would have you believe that it all begins and ends with tax rate,'' Mr. O'Malley said. ''We all strive to be competitive on that score.'' He added, ''But there are other things that determine whether or not your state is well-equipped and whether your children are more likely to be winners or losers in a changing economy.''
He mentioned that Maryland is first in median income, while Virginia is eighth, and that the U.S. Chamber of Commerce ranks Maryland first in innovation and entrepreneurship, while Virginia again ranks eighth. He also noted that Maryland had the fourth-highest percentage of workers in ''green jobs,'' in 2010, compared with Virginia at 20th, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics Green Goods and Services Survey released in March.
Mr. O'Malley noted that Education Week ranks his state as No. 1 in K-12 public education. He also argued that he has been more committed to investing in public education than has Mr. McDonnell. For the 2012-13 school year, Virginia's financing for K-12 education decreased by 10 percent compared with 2008 levels, while Maryland's investment increased 7.4 percent.
Mr. O'Malley says he has invested in human capital to urge Maryland toward ''building an economy for the future that will last,'' through maximizing educational attainment, developing worker skills and focusing on emerging sectors including life sciences and biotechnology.
The roles of Mr. O'Malley and Mr. McDonnell as leaders of their governors' associations put them on a national stage as stewards of their parties' message and approach to governance. There are now 29 states with Republican governors, 20 headed by Democrats and one with an independent. Eleven states have governors' elections this year.
''Yeah, I want to win as many governors' races as I can,'' Mr. McDonnell said. ''But not because I'm in competition with Governor O'Malley, but because I really do believe the 29 Republican governors are doing some unique things in reforming government in their states and giving new birth to federalism. Because they focus on fiscal responsibility and low taxes and limited government they are getting better results for their people.''
He added, ''I say this not just about Virginia and Maryland, but I could say it about Wisconsin and Illinois or other Republican governors.''
Mr. O'Malley, of course, is not so upbeat about the impact of Republican governors.
''Some of these newly elected governors who were elected in 2010 or even 2009 promised they would restore the economy,'' Mr. O'Malley said. ''Instead when they got in, they governed by rolling back individual rights -- rolling back women's rights, rolling back voters' rights, rolling back workers' rights. The people in a lot of the states -- Ohio, Florida and others -- are scratching their heads and feeling a bit of buyer's remorse for putting in people with such a narrow right-wing ideology.''
Despite their differences, Mr. O'Malley, 49, and Mr. O'Donnell, 58, are friendly on the regional level and have more in common than just their Irish-Catholic backgrounds and rising fame. They have worked together on regional issues, including the cleanup of the Chesapeake Bay, public safety in the capital region and transportation issues. By most accounts, the men and their staffs have a good working relationship with each other.
Both men said they would be open to a different type of partnership: ''I understand he is a pretty good guitar player,'' Mr. McDonnell said of Mr. O'Malley, who plays and sings in an Irish rock band. ''We ought to get together; I play the drums, although I don't play them well.''
Mr. O'Malley sounded intrigued by the prospect.
''Does he have a practice tape or anything he can send us?'' he asked. ''I'd love to jam with him, it'd be fun. I'm totally open -- music is nonpartisan.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Govs. Martin O'Malley, left, Democrat of Maryland, and Bob McDonnell, Republican of Virginia, reflect the longstanding rivalries and cooperation that exist between their states. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHARLIE NEIBERGALL/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX INCREASES (87%); BUDGETS (87%); TAX LAW (87%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); SALES TAX (72%); INCOME TAX (69%); CORPORATE TAX (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (62%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (52%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (58%)

PERSON: MARTIN O'MALLEY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (74%) VIRGINIA, USA (99%); MARYLAND, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



254 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Writing With Miles Davis

BYLINE: AARON GILBREATH


HIGHLIGHT: What I learned from the notes and the silences left between them. 

 BODY:
If Miles Davis's midcentury trumpet solos can be described by a single phrase, it might be "doing more with less." Despite his renown, Davis wasn't a flashy or highly technical player during the late 1950s and early '60s. He was melodic and economical, and his approach can teach prose writers a lot about the power of concision, suggestion and space.
It's difficult to characterize music in simple, sweeping terms. Davis explored numerous styles in a catalog that spanned decades; change defined him as much as his Harmon mute. But in the 1950s he started moving away from the early bebop of his mentor and band mate Charlie Parker to explore a leaner sound. Rather than squeezing as many notes and changes into solos as possible, Davis dispensed with clutter and ornamentation and pared his mode of expression down to one defined as much by the notes and phrases he played as by the silences left between them. As the critic Stanley Crouch once observed: "Part of his genius as a musician was that he edited what he heard Charlie Parker play."
Where David Foster Wallace showed writers like me the possibilities of labyrinthine stories and digressions, Davis showed me how to be affecting without being opaque, lyrical without being verbose. Editing imbued each of Davis's notes with more weight. It also let his melodic lines breathe, an effect that highlighted the depth and strength of his lyricism. No matter the tempo, Davis's precise, deft touch produced solos whose moods ranged from buoyant to brooding, mournful to sweet.
Many writers fall prey to the quintessential American notion that bigger is better. They overload their sentences, adding more adjectives, more descriptions, more component phrases, tangents and appositives to form sprawling, syntactical centipedes (like this one) whose many segments and exhausting procession repeat themselves and say the same thing in different ways, with different words, and exhibit an entire ideology: that prose's sensory and poetic impacts exist in direct proportion to the concentration of words. I know: I succumbed.
For many years I was impressed by flamboyant displays like the 255-word sentence in the journalist Marshall Frady's essay "The South Domesticated," a monument to excess held together with only three dashes.
Calvin Trillin's sinuous, compound sentences also enchanted me. The problem was that when I aped Trillin's style, I imitated only his long sentences, not the short ones he interspersed. This disparity gave my early essays a manic quality that frazzled the nerves and tired quickly.
Something about youth draws many of us to maximalism: Hunter S. Thompson, Jack Kerouac, Terry Southern, Tom Wolfe. Maybe the style - the sentences' wildness, decadence and audacity - mirrors youth itself. The opening line of Southern's novel "Candy" seemed to confirm to me that iconic stylists are the ones who pen mouthfuls: 
"'I've read many books,' said Professor Mephesto, with an odd finality, wearily flattening his hands on the podium, addressing the seventy-six sophomores who sat in easy reverence, immortalizing his every phrase with their pads and pens, and now, as always, giving him the confidence to slowly, artfully dramatize his words, to pause, shrug, frown, gaze abstractly at the ceiling, allow a wan wistful smile to play at his lips, and repeat quietly, 'many books ... ' "
Yet the more I listened to Davis's music, the more his approach started to influence my writing style. His solos in "Diane" and "It Could Happen to You" show how measured, uncluttered phrasing increases rather than decreases the impact. Unlike so much fat-cat prose, Davis's solos didn't divert from their emotional center by wowing the audience with speed and facility. With less distraction, the force of his music landed more squarely on me.
I started to experiment with economy as a form, hanging fewer phrases and images on the white walls of my essays. I also began to seek out writers who utilized this sparse style. Take Abigail Thomas. In her career, Thomas has distinguished herself, in part, by her brevity. She begins her memoir "A Three Dog Life" with succinct, meticulous bursts: 
"This is the one thing that stays the same: my husband got hurt. Everything else changes. A grandson needs me and then he doesn't. My children are close then one drifts away. I smoke and don't smoke; I knit ponchos, then hats, shawls, hats again, stop knitting, start up again. The clock ticks, the seasons shift, the night sky rearranges itself, but my husband remains constant, his injuries are permanent."
Like Davis's trumpet, Thomas's short sentences create mood. Structurally, she spins an ingenious centrifuge to take readers through the whirlwind of her confusion and despair. Beginning with blunt declarations, she builds momentum with a list and then uses commas to amplify the pace and tension, creating turbulent whitecaps on the flat, sullen surface of her introductory statement.
Davis's saxophonist Cannonball Adderley once described him as "the type of soloist who implies a lot of things." What is left unsaid colors much of Tony Earley's book "Somehow Form a Family." To describe his poor family's character Earley chooses basic, unadorned details: "Our clothes were clean. My parents worked. We went to church. Easter mornings, Mama stood us in front of the yellowbell bush and took our picture." I don't know what a yellowbell bush is, but I know that these people are upstanding, proud, independent, tight-knit, without the writer's spelling it out.
Some of Raymond Carver's best writing also operates in the realm of suggestion. Describing his father's 1934 departure from Arkansas in search of work, Carver wrote: "I don't know whether he was pursuing a dream when he went out to Washington. I doubt it. I don't think he dreamed much." The impact of these short sentences stems less from mood or tension as bluntness. His brevity registers as acceptance, a pragmatic, maybe even disappointing, shrug at life's deprivations: It's unfortunate, but that's how Dad was. At least, that's how I interpret the passage. It's also how suggestion works. Brevity often invites speculation and facilitates a dynamic interaction between reader and writing.
Listening to Davis taught me these things. He also underscored the value of experimentation and reinvention, the fact that it was all right to change, to try new styles, even when evolution meant abandoning your old comfortable routines, or worse, forsaking peoples' favorites. Even though I don't particularly like the musical directions he took later in life, I admire his need to explore, to test the limits of his form and himself. "The way you change and help music," Davis said, "is by trying to invent new ways to play." Every day I sit down at the computer, I try to remember that.
Aaron Gilbreath, a writer in Portland, Ore., has written essays for The Kenyon Review, The Paris Review, Brick, Tin House and The Threepenny Review. 

        
Escaping One's Own Shadow
        
Which Language Rules to Flout. Or Flaunt?
        
The Trouble With Intentions
        
Other Men's Flowers
        
Is This Title O.K.?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSIC (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); JOURNALISM (76%) Jazz; Miles Davis; Writing; Davis, Miles; Reading and Writing Skills; Writing and Writers; Draft

PERSON: Davis, Miles

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



255 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: A Conversation With: Chief Economic Adviser Raghuram G. Rajan

BYLINE: VIKAS BAJAJ


HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Rajan wants to strengthen financial institutions, shift people from agriculture to service and industry, and improve upon his Hindi language skills. 

 BODY:
 Raghuram Rajan, whom I profiled in a recent story for The New York Times, took over as the chief economic adviser in India's Finance Ministry last month. He has long been an adviser to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, and he is known in global economic policy circles for a paper he wrote on the growing risks in the financial system years before the collapse of Lehman Brothers, and for his work at the International Monetary Fund, where he was chief economist.
 Mr. Rajan is the son of a former Indian diplomat and spent his early childhood abroad. He is a graduate of the Indian Institute of Technology, New Delhi; the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad; and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
 We spoke about the state of the Indian economy; why he chose to return to the country now, after spending much of his professional career in the United States; and his fluency in Tamil, the language of his family, and Hindi. 
 Q. 
You have recently returned to India at a time when the government seems to have suddenly woken up to a sharply slowing economy. Where do things stand and where are things going?
 A. 
One of the things that foreign investors, and even domestic investors, tend to be mistaken about India is they get overly euphoric for a while and then they get overly pessimistic. You have to remember that this a country of 1.2 billion and it has its own dynamic, and it moves according to whatever evolves. But the underlying fundamentals over the medium term for a country like this are obvious to see. In terms of where will growth come from, it doesn't need to come from fancy stuff like extraordinary innovation of one kind or another. Just getting people from agriculture into services and industry itself is growth.
Second, the economic establishment in this country fully understands what needs to be done. The prime minister is one of the few Ph.D. economists running a country. He has been clear on what needs to be done. And of course the new finance minister has been the old finance minister, and the older, older finance minister, and so he has a good sense [of what needs to be done]. It wasn't for want of knowledge on what needed to be done that India slowed down. It was obviously because of lack of political, sort of, will. And I think that to some extent, when things were going swimmingly well, which they were till a year ago, you are growing at 8 to 9 percent, sometimes at 10, why would you think that you need to do more? You can focus on the other things that are more palatable to the population.
 Q. 
Why did you want to come back to India now?
 A. 
A part of it was when the call comes, it's very hard to say no. You feel that you have some duty towards the country. I feel I owe something to the country. Also, I think the chance of even having some small influence that helps, that is multiplied by 1.2 billion lives, it's such an immense opportunity and, of course, could be extremely rewarding if you can do even a small bit. You don't have to have a grand vision of turning things around, and I think that is sort of the recipe for frustration.
 Q. 
In a speech you gave at the Indian School of Business in April, you said that Indian policy makers can often be hostile to new ideas and advice from outside experts. Do you feel that has changed or do you still feel that resistance?
 A. 
I think it varies by people. Some people are quite confident, and I think the willingness to listen is really a matter of confidence. You can't be so superconfident in your abilities that you ignore what others say, and you can't be so diffident in your abilities that you think that if they say something, you will be so taken in that you will do the wrong thing. When you are confident about your abilities and also fully aware of what you don't know you are willing to listen to outside experts with the full sense that if you don't find it worthwhile you will ignore it.
 Q. 
What are the two or three big things that you want to focus on while you are in this job?
 A. 
I have to say these things are a team effort right from the top, with the central figures being the prime minister and the finance minister. But I do want to participate in this process of doing what I can to put India back on the strong-growth path, and I think that's something that can be done. That turnaround, whatever and whenever that happens, would be very, very satisfying for me.
On a more direct scale, two areas that I think we could do a lot more: one is improving our financial markets and financial institutions, which is my pet interest. And I think there is a lot that we can do that doesn't need to be grand but small, small changes that can make an enormous difference.
And the second is, I think India's medium-term future is moving people out of agriculture into industry and services. Services, you know, some extent we have a sort of a sense of what it takes. And India's service sector is disproportionately large for a country of its income. Where we have had less success is industry, and the question is can we sort of find a way to free the path for small and medium industry, and not just keep them forever as small and medium industries but allow them to grow into large industries.
So in other words, let's move away from small and medium-sized industry preferences, regulations that primarily target large industry, and move to more seamless regulation and also reduce the transaction costs of setting up these businesses and growing them. What buttons can be pressed to make it much more attractive to do business in India? What are the permissions that we can cut down?
Apart from fixing infrastructure, which everybody understands needs to be done, we are in the process of trying to increase the pace; there is also the issue of just clearing the way for entrepreneurship or, broadly, enterprise in India, and if we can do some of that, I think that could be a big win.
 Q. 
Many analysts say you are the leading candidate to become the governor of the Reserve Bank of India next year when Duvvuri Subbarao, the current governor, retires. What do you think about that?
 A. 
Hypothetical, and basically right now the challenges inside the real economy are really the most important things to focus on. Anywhere, what you want to focus on is the here and now. And the here and now is so important for getting our growth back on track. The monetary side is important, of course -- there is the inflation issue to deal with, there is the financial sector liberalization -- but I think the real sector, in my mind, is the single most important thing right now. I don't think about hypotheticals.
 Q. 
Do you and the finance minister, Palaniappan Chidambaram, speak to each other in Tamil?
 A. 
I don't think he wants to try my Tamil out. My speaking is pretty rusty. I did learn how to read and write, but I don't want to venture to speak, especially on economic matters.
I am a 10th class pass in Hindi; from 7th grade to 12th grade, I was in Delhi; before that, I was abroad. I came in not knowing a word of Hindi in 7th grade and learned Hindi and passed the exam in 10th. I think I was north of 50 percent, so I feel very proud of that accomplishment. I remember mugging up lots of long words to impress the examiner. But I want to develop to a point where I can give a working interview in Hindi. I can understand the questions perfectly but not the terminology - English words for fiscal deficit, which would be pretty unusual in Hindi. Hopefully, by the end of the year I will have some knowledge of that kind of stuff.
 (This interview has been lightly edited and condensed.) 

        
In Kashmir, Rahul Gandhi Talks Business, But Disappoints Students
        
More Reforms Expected to Boost India's Flagging Economy
        
Under Pressure, India's Entrepreneurs Look for Help From Unusual Corner
        
Has Manmohan Singh Gambled Enough?
        
Prime Minister Singh Defends Reforms

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); TRENDS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%) Economic Conditions and Trends; India; Rajan, Raghuram G

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (58%) Rajan, Raghuram G

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); DELHI, INDIA (78%) TAMIL NADU, INDIA (79%); GUJARAT, INDIA (58%) INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



256 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Oct. 6: Romney Maintains Poll Momentum

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney continues to show improved numbers in polls published since the first presidential debate and has now made clear gains in the FiveThirtyEight forecast. 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney continues to show improved numbers in polls published since the presidential debate in Denver on Wednesday and has now made clear gains in the FiveThirtyEight forecast. The forecast gives him roughly a 20 percent chance of winning the Electoral College, up from about 15 percent before the debate. Mr. Romney's gains in the polls have been sharp enough that he should continue to advance in the FiveThirtyEight forecast if he can maintain his numbers over the next couple of days.
Four of the five national polls published on Saturday showed improvement for Mr. Romney. In the Rasmussen Reports tracking poll, which conducted about two-thirds of its interviews after the debate, he went from a two-point deficit against Barack Obama to a two-point lead. Mr. Romney gained two points in the Gallup tracking poll, which now shows him down by three. He also gained roughly 1.5 percentage points in the RAND Corporation's online tracking poll, reversing a gain that Mr. Obama had made on Friday. And a companion pair of polls published by Clarus Research Group just before and after the debate showed a five-point swing toward Mr. Romney. He trailed Mr. Obama by four points in a poll that Clarus Research Group conducted on Tuesday night, before the debate, but led him by one point in a poll they conducted on Thursday.
All of these national surveys except for the Clarus Research Group poll still contain some predebate interviews, meaning that they may underestimate the gains that Mr. Romney may eventually realize. This particularly holds for the Gallup and RAND Corporation tracking polls, which use seven-day filed periods; only about 30 percent of the interviews in those polls postdate the debate. In general, the surveys seem to be consistent with a universe in which Mr. Romney has been polling about evenly with Mr. Obama nationwide in interviews conducted after the debates.
There were few state polls published on Saturday, but a Gravis Marketing poll of Colorado also showed a sharp reversal toward Mr. Romney. He led in its newest survey, which was conducted on Thursday after the debate, by 3.5 percentage points. Although Gravis Marketing polls have had a very strong Republican lean so far this cycle, the trend in the poll is nevertheless extremely favorable for Mr. Romney, since he had trailed Mr. Obama by roughly five percentage points in a poll it conducted in September.
The only poll in which Mr. Romney failed to make gains on Saturday was in the online tracking poll published by Ipsos. That survey showed Mr. Obama holding onto a two-point lead among likely voters, the same as in the poll Ipsos published on Friday, although the numbers were still improved for Mr. Romney from the surveys it had been publishing before the debate.
If there is any silver lining for Mr. Obama in these data, it may be that polls of registered voters show a weaker trend toward Mr. Romney than polls of likely voters. He still leads Mr. Romney by six points in the version of the Ipsos poll among registered voters, for instance, and the Gallup tracking poll, which is conducted among registered rather than likely voters, has not shown an especially sharp shift toward Mr. Romney so far.
Why is this factor favorable for Mr. Obama? Because likely voter polls can be more sensitive than registered voter polls to temporary swings in voter enthusiasm, which sometimes reverse themselves as there are new developments in the news cycle.
More broadly, although it is clear that Mr. Romney has made gains, it is still too early to tell how long-lasting they might be. Many of the polls that showed the sharpest swing toward Mr. Romney were conducted on Thursday, immediately after the debate and on a very unfavorable day of news coverage for Mr. Obama, and will not yet reflect any change in voter sentiment from Friday morning's favorable jobs report.
Still, as I wrote yesterday, my guess is that the forecast model is still being somewhat too conservative about accounting for the change in the environment. In a good number of the polls, Mr. Romney has not only improved his own standing but also taken voters away from Mr. Obama's column, suggesting that he has peeled off some of Mr. Obama's softer support in addition to gaining ground among undecided voters.

        
Oct. 5: Day After Debate, Strong Swing State Polls for Romney
        
Wyoming, Energy and Libertarianism
        
Oct. 3: Romney's Electoral Challenge, and More on Debate Instant Polls
        
Polls Show a Strong Debate for Romney
        
Obama Leads, but a Romney Comeback Might Start Out West With Colorado

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); POLITICAL DEBATES (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); STATISTICS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); MARKETING SURVEYS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%) mitt romney; Presidential Debates; Romney, Mitt; Debates (Political); Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012; projection update

COMPANY: RAND CORP (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (91%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (88%) COLORADO, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



257 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: The Weekend Word: On the Job

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and the president's weekly address. 

 BODY:
Today's Times

        
The jobless rate dropped to its lowest level since President Obama took office, lending support to his case that the economy is recovering and threatening the central argument of Mitt Romney's campaign, Shaila Dewan and Mark Landler report.
        
Though Mr. Romney boasted in Wednesday's debate of his stellar record in working with both political parties as Massachusetts governor, a closer examination of his tenure looks considerably less burnished, Michael Wines writes.
        
President Obama's campaign snagged another victory against Republicans in its legal battles over voting issues, with a courtrestoring earlyvoting for residents in Ohio, Michael D. Shear writes.
        
Democratic lawmakers are starting a counterweight to Republican efforts to require photo identification on Election Day by passing legislation that would make it easier for people to register to vote, Ian Lovett reports.
Weekly Address

        
President Obama listed a few of his administration's accomplishments - including Friday's jobs report - arguing that too much progress was being made to change course now. Though many are still unemployed, he said, "we owe it to them to keep moving forward." He added: "Republicans in Congress need to stop trying to refight the battles of the past few years, and finally start doing something to actually help the middle class get ahead. Ask them to get back to work and get these things done."

        
The Early Word: Intensity
        
The Early Word: Debate Prep
        
The Early Word: Offshore
        
The Early Word: Inevitable
        
The Weekend Word: Exposure

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%) The Early Word; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



258 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 263 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths HOERNER, RICHARD "DICK" CHARLES

 BODY:
HOERNER--Richard "Dick" Charles, of Grand Haven, MI, passed away July 26, 2012. He was born to Rudolph and Ella (Sauer) Hoerner May 19, 1919 in New York City. Dick graduated from AB Davis High School in Mt. Vernon, NY and attended New York University. He married Jane Warder in 1942 who preceded him in death in 2011. Dick was a veteran of the U.S. Army Air Corps in WWII assigned to the 8th Army Air Force in England. He began his career with American Airlines in 1940; served as Vice President of Passenger Sales and Service, and was City VP of Detroit Metro Airport until he retired in 1984. He was named president of Junior Achievement of Southeast Michigan in 1978, was a board member of Family Services of Detroit and Schoolcraft Community College, a director of the Economic Club of Detroit, the Metro Detroit Convention and Visitors Bureau, and a member of the Rotary Club of Plymouth, MI. Dick and Jane raised their family in Ridgefield, CT, and Plymouth, MI. They retired to Yarmouthport, MA and most recently moved to Grand Haven, MI. Dick will be remembered for his wonderful sense of humor, and his dedication to family, friends, country and American Airlines. He is survived by his daughters: Susan Struck of Grand Haven, MI, Karen Neel of Croton-on-Hudson, NY, and Elizabeth Roe of Southlake, TX; six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. A Memorial Service will be held March 10, 2013 at Briarcliff Congregational Church, Briarcliff Manor, NY. Interment at Woodlawn Cemetery, New York City. Please visit: klaassenfuneralhome.com to sign an online guest book.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); AIRLINES (90%); ARMIES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); AIR FORCES (76%); AIRPORTS (75%); FAMILY SERVICES (75%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (69%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (53%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



259 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths LEVY, S JAY

 BODY:
LEVY--S Jay. Economist and Forecaster. S Jay Levy passed away on October 4, 2012. He was a noted economist and forecaster for nearly seven decades, most recently as partner of the Jerome Levy Forecasting Center, LLC. Jay was born on May 31, 1922 in New York City. After graduating from Townsend Harris, he earned a bachelor's degree from City College. In 1948, he met Barbara J. Henly with whom he shared 63 years of devoted marriage before she passed away in March of this year. The son of Jerome Levy, a maverick economic theorist, Jay and his late brother, financier and philanthropist Leon Levy, grew up with their father's economic perspective and preoccupation with ethics. In 1949 Jay founded Industry Forecast, which continues to this day as The Levy Forecast, the oldest publication focused on analyzing and forecasting U.S. economic conditions. He was also a consultant to major corporations and financial institutions, eventually joined in the business by his son David. Jay achieved a remarkable record of calling business cycle turning points, prompting a Barron's editorial to dub him "the Doughty Maverick" in 1959. Throughout his career Jay was sought out for commentary by public officials, private corporations, and the news media. He testified before Congress and met with high-level congressional, administration, and Federal Reserve officials to discuss economic policy and to provide analysis of economic conditions. He authored many monographs, articles, and columns as well as coauthoring a book, Profits and the Future of American Society (Harper Collins, 1983), with son David. He taught courses and lectured on economic topics. In 1986, Jay became chairman of the Jerome Levy Economics Institute at Bard College, until leaving in 2001 with David as the Forecasting Center returned to the business sector. Throughout his life Jay supported his community and country through active participation in civic and educational activities. He served on the Academic Freedom Committee of the American Civil Liberties Union and involved himself in numerous other organizations. Guided by his strong convictions about democratic principles, freedom of expression, and humanitarian causes, he gave financial support to a broad range of charities and causes. His family and friends remember him for his kindness, generosity, and quiet sense of humor. He is survived by his children, Ann Levy; David A Levy and his wife Judith Butler; and Joshua R. Levy and his wife Pam Magnuson. He is also survived by his grandchildren Claire Levy, Hannah Levy, Noah Simms-Levy, and Alice Levy. A memorial service will be held at Temple Beth El, Chappaqua, NY at 2:00pm on Sunday, October 14. Donations in lieu of flowers can be sent to The City College of New York or a cause he would have valued.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); ACADEMIC FREEDOM (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); MARRIAGE (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (74%); CHARITIES (74%); PHILANTHROPY (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); ETHICS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (67%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (62%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



260 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; COLLECTING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: A High-Style Buick At a Reasonable Price

BYLINE: By JIM KOSCS

 BODY:
THE 1963 Buick Riviera made its debut on Oct. 4, 1962, with a price of $4,333. Adjusting for inflation, that would be about $33,000 in 2012 dollars, near the high end of what a collector might pay for one today.
Most Rivieras, which Buick built in eight generations through 1999, sell for much less, according to data from the Black Book CPI Value Guide, which monitors prices in the collector market.
Eric Lawrence, editor of the Value Guide, called the first Riviera a ''bridge car,'' blending luxury touches from upscale American coupes of the late 1950s with performance characteristics of 1960s muscle cars. Buick made 112,000 of the first-generation 1963-65 Riviera before changing the design for 1966.
Donnie Gould, president of RM Auctions America, said the first-generation cars were ''unique, with an almost 'semicustom' design from the factory.''
Auction prices quoted by Mr. Gould fall in line with value estimates from the Value Guide. ''A properly restored 1963-65 Riviera can bring $30,000 to $40,000,'' Mr. Gould said. ''At the same time, the average enthusiast can still afford a good driver for $10,000 to $15,000 and have the same car, the same design, as the more expensive collector versions.''
Prized among enthusiasts are cars equipped with the performance-oriented Gran Sport option package, introduced for 1965 and offered with varying specifications through the 1975 model year. Gran Sports command a premium.
Among the aficionados is Nicola Bulgari of the luxury watch and jewelry company that bears his family's name. He has seven Rivieras in his collection of vintage American cars, including two 1963 models (one kept in Rome and one in Pennsylvania), two 1970 versions and one each from '72, '93 and '99. His 1999 car is a Silver Arrow special edition, one of 200 made to close out the production run. Mr. Bulgari secured No. 199 of the series, and he calls it his second-favorite Riviera, after the '63 model.
Speaking by telephone from his office in Rome, Mr. Bulgari praised the 1963 Riviera for what he calls its ideal balance of aesthetics, engineering, drivability and elegance. ''It is one of the best postwar U.S. car designs,'' he said. ''It looks like something you want to drive forever.''
Affirming that he drives his Rivieras, Mr. Bulgari said, ''When I do, I do with gusto, with pleasure.''
The third-generation (1971-73) Riviera, called the ''boat tail'' for its huge, tapered, wraparound rear window and protruding trunk, holds similar collector appeal to the second-generation cars of 1966-70, Mr. Gould said. That is in contrast with other American collectible cars, like the Chevrolet Corvette and Ford Mustang, whose later models often trail the earlier ones in value.
Somewhat controversial when new, the car's styling still stirs debate more than 40 years later. ''It's dramatic, perhaps too dramatic,'' Mr. Bulgari said of his '72. ''But it is very nice to drive.''
The boat tails follow the first-generation models in popularity among the 3,000 members of the Riviera Owners Association, according to the club's founder, Ray Knott. He added that the final-series cars of 1995-99 had become more common at meets, attributing the trend to the cars' modern comforts and improved fuel economy. David Eldridge no doubt found those qualities welcome when he drove his rare 1999 Silver Arrow to a club event in Monterey, Calif., in June. He traveled 5,137 miles from his home in Barrington, Nova Scotia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (89%); ENGINEERING (77%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



261 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Is America Man Enough to Vote?

BYLINE: By VICTORIA BASSETTI. 
The author of ''Electoral Dysfunction: A Survival Manual for Voters.'' A companion documentary will air on PBS this month.

 BODY:
HUNDREDS of variables affect voting patterns: income, race, gender, unemployment, the weather, polling locations, altruism, to name a few. And on Election Day these all come together to produce a voter. Too often they produce a nonvoter.
American voter participation is consistently below that of other industrialized democracies. (The historically significant 2008 presidential election drew less than 62 percent of eligible voters to the polls.) It's a truism among election reformers that poor turnout produces poor representation, which produces laws people are disinclined to obey and so undermines the process. But here's a new idea: testosterone may provide a key to boosting voter turnout.
In 2008, scientists from Duke University and the University of Michigan analyzed the biological effects of voting on more than 150 voters. On Election Day, more than 150 test subjects chewed sugar-free gum after they'd voted and again at regular intervals after learning the election results.
When the scientists analyzed the testosterone in the saliva generated by all that gum chewing, they noted a dramatic pattern: men who had voted for the losing presidential candidate, John McCain, suffered a big drop in their testosterone after hearing of his defeat.
The scientists reported that the male McCain voters ''felt significantly more controlled, submissive, unhappy and unpleasant.'' The testosterone effect was ''as if they directly engaged head-to-head in a contest for dominance'' and lost, one researcher told a reporter when the study was published in 2009. The men who voted for Obama fared better. The researchers speculated that there might be an Obama baby boom.
Politicians mining the gender gap should pay close attention to the study. Women had no change in testosterone levels, regardless of whom they voted for. Estrogen was not measured in the study. And women return to the polls more frequently than men. (Indeed, female turnout has exceeded men's in every presidential election since 1980.)
Is it possible voting makes male voters too vulnerable? Could the unpleasant feelings male voters experience when their candidates lose discourage them from revisiting the polls? No wonder they stop voting. It hurts too much.
Low turnout should be a concern, and not just because of the inadvertent commentary it supplies on American manhood. The democratic process is our way of resolving conflict. It produces the laws that underpin our society, often in the face of substantial disagreement. Researchers have demonstrated that participants in the democratic process are more likely to comply with its outcomes, even when they disagree. They pay their taxes and obey the speed limit. When fewer people vote, the connection between the people and the laws that govern them grows tenuous.
Low turnout also affects the quality of government. Voting behavior is not uniform across socioeconomic groups. Young people, Latinos and poorer people vote at lower rates than, say, rich, white, older people. When turnout falls, politicians can and do collect bands of polarized followers and cater to their wishes rather than to the general public good.
The pharmaceutical industry has tackled depression, sleeplessness and erectile dysfunction. Could we drug people into being better citizens? Studies by the geneticist and social scientist James Fowler suggest that serotonin, the neurotransmitter connected to mood disorders and depression, is strongly implicated in voting behavior.
Often called the utility hormone, serotonin plays a role in our ability, among other things, to absorb disappointment (or worse), while maintaining social and emotional balance. In one of Mr. Fowler's studies, people with the genetic code for efficient serotonin systems were more likely to vote -- and more likely to return to the polls in subsequent elections, even if their candidate lost. Mr. Fowler hypothesizes that people with more durable serotonin systems can better handle the intensity of voting.
As absurd -- or useful -- as it may be to think about hormones and voting, studies like Mr. Fowler's don't really help us grapple with the complex issues facing our democracy. This year, more than ever, our quest to understand voter turnout strains against the unruly, partisan way we actually run elections.
Americans are struggling with a severe case of electoral dysfunction. They have to navigate bureaucratic hurdles needed to cast a ballot -- the hassles of getting and staying registered, finding the polling station, standing in long lines, deciphering ballots and complying with much contested and confusing ID requirements. New restrictions on early voting, limitations on voter registration initiatives and voter roll purges contribute to the dysfunction.
Voters need every bit of emotional resilience they can find. Perhaps the pharmaceutical industry will come up with a little blue pill to make people voters. But until then, we may need to man up and face facts. For all our idealism about voting and democracy, we have created a needlessly complex and burdensome voting system. We can't fix the hormonal fallout from voting, but biology provides another reason we should think about making voting simpler and easier.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY WARD SUTTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); SPEED LIMITS (70%); SENIOR CITIZENS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



262 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
National

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2503 words

HEADLINE: Republicans to Cities: Drop Dead

BYLINE: By KEVIN BAKER. 
The author of the ''City of Fire'' series of historical novels: ''Dreamland,'' ''Paradise Alley'' and ''Strivers Row.''

 BODY:
A LEADING Republican columnist, trying to re-stoke her candidate's faltering campaign before the first presidential debate, felt so desperate that she advised him to turn to cities.
''Wade into the crowd, wade into the fray, hold a hell of a rally in an American city -- don't they count anymore?'' Peggy Noonan lamented in The Wall Street Journal. ''A big, dense city with skyscrapers like canyons, crowds and placards, and yelling. All of our campaigning now is in bland suburbs and tired hustings.''
But the fact is that cities don't count anymore -- at least not in national Republican politics.
The very word ''city'' went all but unheard at the Republican convention, held in the rudimentary city of Tampa, Fla. The party platform ratified there is over 31,000 words long. It includes subsections on myriad pressing topics, like ''Restructuring the U.S. Postal Service for the Twenty-First Century'' and ''American Sovereignty in U.S. Courts,'' which features a full-throated denunciation of the ''unreasonable extension'' of the Lacey Act of 1900 (please don't ask). There are also passages specifying what our national policy should be all over the world -- but not in one American city.
Actually, that's not quite true. Right after ''Honoring Our Relationship With American Indians'' and shortly before ''Honoring and Supporting Americans in the Territories,'' the Republican platform addresses another enclave of benighted quasi-citizens: the District of Columbia. Most of what it has to say is about forcing the district to accept school vouchers, lax gun laws and the fact that it will never be a state. It also scolds the district for corruption and ''decades of inept one-party rule.'' Only a city would get yelled at.
The very few sections that address urban concerns contain similar complaints about cities' current priorities -- not to mention the very idea of city life. The Republican platform bitterly denounces the Democrats for diverting some highway fund money to Amtrak and harrumphs that it is ''long past time for the federal government to get out of the way and allow private ventures to provide passenger service to the Northeast corridor. The same holds true with regard to high-speed and intercity rail across the country.''
The Obama administration, the Republicans conclude damningly, is ''replacing civil engineering with social engineering as it pursues an exclusively urban vision of dense housing and government transit.''
Unsurprisingly, the chairman of the Republican platform committee, Gov. Bob McDonnell of Virginia, is from a state that has no city with a population of 500,000 or more. One of his two ''co-chairmen'' was Senator John Hoeven of North Dakota, which ranks 47th among the states in population density. The other was Marsha Blackburn, who represents a largely suburban district of Tennessee.
IT could hardly be otherwise. The Republican Party is, more than ever before in its history, an anti-urban party, its support gleaned overwhelmingly from suburban and rural districts -- especially in presidential elections.
This wasn't always the case. During the heyday of the urban political machines, from the Civil War to the Great Depression, Republicans used to hold their own in our nation's great cities. Philadelphia was dominated for decades by a Republican machine. In Chicago -- naturally -- both parties had highly competitive, wildly corrupt machines, with a buffoonish Republican mayor, ''Big Bill'' Thompson, presiding over the city during the ascent of Al Capone. In the 1928 presidential election, the Republican Herbert Hoover swept to victory while carrying cities all across the country: Philadelphia; Pittsburgh; Chicago; Detroit; Atlanta; Birmingham, Ala.; Houston; Dallas; Omaha and Los Angeles.
With the possible exception of Houston or maybe Omaha, it's all but inconceivable that Mr. Romney will carry any of those cities. And that's due in good part to the man Hoover defeated, more than 80 years ago.
The rise of Alfred E. Smith to the top of the Democratic Party confirmed a sea change in American life. Smith was not simply the first Catholic to lead a major-party ticket. He was also a quintessentially urban candidate, like no one who has ever seriously contended for the presidency before or since.
Born in 1873 on Oliver Street, on the edge of Manhattan's Chinatown, he was forced to leave school after the death of his father. He never went back, toiling at the Fulton Fish Market for $12 a week. Elected to the New York State Assembly by Tammany Hall's political machine, he worked his way up to speaker, then governor.
In Albany, Smith pushed through some of the most important social legislation in our history. Yet everything about him remained unacceptably ''ghetto'' to much of America: the way he dressed; the stogies he smoked in public; his heavy New York accent; and the way he enjoyed singing old Bowery tunes while enjoying a beer with the boys.
It was almost as if today a candidate from the projects -- a high-school dropout who still dressed in hip-hop fashion and liked to occasionally drop in to a club to D.J. for a couple of hours -- were to become a serious presidential candidate.
''To hundreds of thousands of old-stock Americans, Smith might just as well have been Jewish or black,'' the historian Lawrence H. Fuchs wrote. New York ''meant night life, short skirts, prostitution, Jewish intellectuals and the Union Theological Seminary.''
In an openly bigoted campaign, Smith was assailed in millions of coarse, anti-Catholic pamphlets and handbills; even a Methodist bishop viciously attacked his ''Romanism.'' He walked away from the race a bitter man and the cities went with him. By 1930, over 56 percent of all Americans already lived in urban areas.
The Great Depression secured their loyalty to the Democratic Party. Franklin Delano Roosevelt made the cities showcases for the New Deal -- especially New York, under the liberal Republican reformer, Fiorello H. La Guardia. Federal money poured in, but in the end the New Deal was about more than building new bridges or getting people off the bread lines. Contrary to Mr. Romney's contention that government aid automatically turns people into ''victims'' and ''dependents,'' Washington's intervention turned urban Americans from subjects into citizens who could claim the necessities of life as a right, not a favor.
In so doing, it began to shrivel the urban political machines, though it would take decades before they disappeared completely. The cities, which had been places of horrible suffering during the early years of the Great Depression, became alluring again, attracting a dynamic if volatile new mix of the rural poor, black, white and Hispanic. By 1950, almost two-thirds of all Americans lived in urban areas.
Save for mavericks like La Guardia, Republicans had little to add to this battle for the soul of the city. Increasingly, a Republican mayor of a major city became a curiosity. In presidential elections, big cities went Republican only during landslides.
This didn't seem to matter in the postwar years, as demographic trends began to shift sharply away from the city. Newly prosperous whites and eventually blacks pursued the American dream out to the suburbs. The urban industrial base left too.
FOR Republicans, cities now became object lessons on the shortcomings of activist government and the welfare state -- sinkholes of crime and social dysfunction, where Ronald Reagan's ''welfare queens'' cavorted in their Cadillacs. The very idea of the city seemed to be a thing of the past, an archaic concept -- so much so that Gerald R. Ford seriously considered letting New York go bankrupt in 1975.
This probably cost Ford the 1976 election -- much as Mr. Romney's opposition to ''saving Detroit'' may yet cost him this one, thanks to all the votes of auto-parts workers he stands to sacrifice in Ohio. Tragically, once-great cities like St. Louis or Newark never fully recovered from postwar deindustrialization. But urban living was far from dead. Instead, the American economy began to reinvent itself in cities, as they became cleaner, greener, safer, more prosperous, more fun. As the demographic wheel turned again, both new immigrants and a generation of Americans born and raised in the 'burbs moved back in.
Today, four-fifths of the population lives in an urban area -- the highest percentage in our history. Although the country remains largely suburban, one in 12 Americans lives in a city of over a million people. More than ever, they are stakeholders, owning where previous generations rented, creating their own jobs and opportunities. Traditional liberal bastions like the Upper West Side of Manhattan are now filled with the owners of co-ops and condominiums worth hundreds of thousands, even millions of dollars. Over 140,000 New Yorkers in all -- or nearly 4 percent of the labor force -- work out of their homes. The percentages are even higher in Los Angeles and Chicago. Most of these individuals are skilled, highly educated ''job creators'' for themselves and others -- the very demographic that Republicans claim to want to attract.
Some have managed it. The Upper West Side voted for the re-election of both the businessman Michael R. Bloomberg and the former prosecutor Rudolph W. Giuliani. Over the past 25 years, cities like Indianapolis, San Diego and even Los Angeles have elected -- and re-elected -- Republican mayors.
Yet the national Republican Party still can't get seem to get past its animus toward the very idea of urban life. The only place that Amtrak turns a profit is the Northeast corridor -- yet all Republicans can think to do is privatize it, along with the local rail lines on which millions of Americans have been commuting into cities to work for as long as a century and a half. Republicans promise to ban same-sex marriage, make it easier for anyone to get a gun, delegitimize and destroy what they mockingly call ''public employees' unions,'' and deport the immigrant workers performing so many thankless but vital tasks.
In short, they promise to rip and tear at the immensely complex fabric of city life while sneering at the entire ''urban vision of dense housing and government transit.'' There is a terrible arrogance here that has ramifications well beyond the Republicans' electoral prospects.
There wasn't so much as a mention of cities in the debate on domestic issues the presidential candidates had last week. Nor did the Democrats have much to say about cities at their convention in Charlotte, N.C. They didn't have to. Politically, Democrats don't have to say anything about the urban experience; they embody it. But in too many cities this allows them to keep running corrupt and mediocre candidates.
Mr. Giuliani and Mayor Bloomberg -- both Democrats turned Republicans -- saw their opportunity in displacing these tired party satraps. Between them, they embraced exactly the sort of ''Chinese menu'' variety of policy choices that Americans say they prefer. Between them, they backed tough law-enforcement tactics and strict gun laws, supported gay rights and major real-estate developments, opposed smoking in bars and a ''living wage.''
Other Republican mayors have scored similar successes around the country. Susan Golding, the second woman and first Jewish mayor of San Diego, was a pro-gay-rights, pro-affirmative-action executive who also built that city's first homeless shelter -- and cracked down on crime while creating ''one-stop shopping'' for new businesses seeking permits.
The dynasty of Republican mayors begun by Richard G. Lugar in Indianapolis had a prophetic champion in the Buffalo congressman Jack F. Kemp, who tried hard to provide Republicans with a potential urban agenda when he was secretary of housing and urban development under the first President Bush. Mr. Kemp insisted that the party denounce racism and pioneered urban ''enterprise zones'' -- there are over 800 of them today -- and even tried to extend the idea of the urban stakeholder movement to the residents of public housing projects by allowing them to buy their own homes.
''This is my way of redeeming my existence on earth,'' Mr. Kemp once told a group of reporters. ''I wasn't there with Rosa Parks or Dr. King or John Lewis, but I am here now, and I am going to yell from the rooftops about what we need to do.''
THE potential for change, should Republicans start shouting from the rooftops about cities, is enormous. Constituencies change parties -- and in America, parties change constituents, opening them up to the concerns of others, because of the need to form broad, national coalitions. A Republican Party seeking to actively win cities, not just vilify them or suppress their vote, could open the party up to all sorts of new immigrant voters, like Asian and Latino Americans -- and maybe even bring back part of an old voting bloc: black people.
At a moment when Republican Party's ''dog whistles'' are more racially pitched than ever, this may sound crazy. Yet one got the impression this election season, for instance, that Cory A. Booker, the mayor of Newark, would like some new place to turn. Mayor Booker has battled valiantly against the sclerotic, black political establishment in his own city as well as outside white indifference. A Mayor Booker who had someplace to go besides the Democratic Party with his city's votes would be immediately empowered as never before.
Republicans in turn could show on a very human level that they are more than the mere radio ranters who constitute so much of what urban voters get to hear of the right wing. They would have to vie for votes in a manner that reflects urban realities instead of fantastical theories. Imagine a serious, practical discussion of educational reform or mass transit, instead of more heavy-handed attempts to demonize teachers' unions or privatize the rails.
The prospects for any such change don't seem high right now. But that may change, too, out of necessity. The Republican refusal to contest the cities has left them in a permanently defensive stance in national campaigns. This can't continue. The courts have already struck down many voter suppression laws, and the party's 2008 presidential results read like an actuarial table, with Republicans increasing their percentage of the vote mainly in aging districts that are losing population. In the meantime, as urban areas continue to grow, they become more and more intertwined with what were once distant suburbs, making ''urban'' issues all the more pertinent to everyone.
The old antagonisms between cities and suburbs will give way to cooperation over everything from where to build the next airport to how to combine municipal services to how to spread the wealth cities generate. And for that matter, over half of all minorities in metropolitan areas -- including African-Americans -- do not live in the inner city but in surrounding suburbs.
Republicans may not want to go to the cities. But that doesn't much matter. The cities are coming to them.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE MCQUADE) (SR1)
From top: New York views of the Lower East Side, 1905
Times Square, 1944
subway graffiti, 1979
and the High Line park. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREAS FEININGER/TIME & LIFE PICTURES, GETTY IMAGES
HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES
NEAL BOENZI/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ROBERT WRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (SR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); NATIVE AMERICANS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (71%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (64%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (64%); CONSTRUCTION (62%); ENGINEERING (60%); POSTAL SERVICE (53%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (52%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



263 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Fund Investors Are Nearing the Edge, Too

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
TAX increases and federal spending cuts scheduled for the end of 2012 could lop off nearly four percentage points of annual economic growth, according to government and private estimates. In an economy expanding at less than a 2 percent annual rate, this fiscal cliff, as the potential decline is called, is a concern on Wall Street, in Washington and beyond.
If all of the tax increases occur, the ride into the abyss could be painful for investors. They will face a bigger bite out of their paychecks, as other people will, as well as higher investment taxes and the prospect of weaker financial markets, advisers warn.
Unless Washington acts, top tax rates on long-term capital gains could rise to 20 percent and on dividend income to 39.6 percent, from the current 15 percent top rate on both. Individuals earning more than $200,000 and married couples earning more than $250,000 would face an additional 3.8 percentage points of tax on a portion of their investment income to defray the costs of the Affordable Care Act.
Advisers expect a full-throttle plunge off the fiscal cliff to be averted. They envision a deal in Congress, probably after the Nov. 6 election, to reduce the tax increases and spending cuts. The outlook for different types of assets and the value of certain tactics to try to minimize tax liability, they say, will hinge on who is in charge in Washington and the nature of whatever agreement is reached.
Just how the political analysis can translate into financial planning is unclear. With the races for control of the White House and Congress possibly going down to the wire, investors are encouraged to think twice before tinkering with their portfolios before the elections or any shift in tax policy.
''Because of all the uncertainties, if you have a financial plan and an asset allocation that you're comfortable with, I wouldn't be making any changes until we know where we are with policy,'' said Ron Roge, a financial adviser in Bohemia, N.Y.
The uncertainties may not stop then. If it appears that the scheduled tax increases will take effect, stocks could decline as investors begin to price in a rising chance of a recession, and the fall could worsen as stocks are sold to lock in lower current rates on capital gains, said David Kelly, chief market strategist at J.P. Morgan Funds. But not necessarily, he adds.
''It's not for sure that the market goes down just because people are realizing capital gains,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''The selling could be offset by people reinvesting the money. Second, there's a huge amount of cash held in short-term accounts because they don't know what tax policy is going to be.'' Once that is resolved, investors may be coaxed back into stocks, he said.
All else being equal, Mr. Kelly considers a Republican sweep of Congress and the White House the best outcome for stocks and a bad one for Treasury bonds as investors come to expect far smaller tax increases and more robust economic growth. In a Democratic sweep, with higher taxes, a moderately stronger economy and limited deficit reduction, ''it's not clear whether, net-net, it would be better'' for stocks, he said, but Treasury bonds could suffer.
Mr. Kelly considers a split, with President Obama re-elected and Republicans controlling at least one house of Congress, the most likely election result. That could produce a milder ''fiscal ledge,'' he said, with tax increases imposed on high earners only and some spending cuts.
That combination could also lead the economy close to a recession, if not all the way into one. It would be negative for stocks, in his view, and positive for Treasuries.
UNDER most of the possibilities, one investment that advisers expect to perform well is municipal bonds, which pay interest free of federal and sometimes state income tax and therefore confer a bigger break when tax rates are higher. Mr. Kelly said munis ought to outperform except in the event of a Republican sweep, and Mr. Roge, despite his broad admonishment against trying to front-run the election results and anticipate tax changes, suggested that investors not wait until all precincts have reported before taking the muni plunge.
''There may be increasing demand for municipal bonds next year,'' he said. ''It might pay for us to get in early, before demand picks up.''
Advisers stress that many factors besides the election will determine the markets' direction. The wisest course for investors may be to focus on whatever looks good when politics and policy are left to one side. For many, that means stocks.
''You're looking at a 25 percent discount, compared to the last decade'' when valuing stocks with price-to-earnings ratios, said Matthew Lloyd, chief investment strategist at Advisors Asset Management in Monument, Colo. ''Is it worth selling now when there's so much more upside? You don't want to be penny-wise and pound-foolish.''
Mr. Kelly agreed. ''Equities are still cheap, relative to bonds,'' he observed. ''People don't want the way they feel about politics to influence the way they invest.''
But it may pay to let political factors influence the timing of investment decisions, said Christine Benz, director of personal finance for Morningstar. In the past, a typical strategy for easing the capital-gains tax burden was to lock in losses before year-end and to sell winners after Jan. 1, but Ms. Benz notes that the reverse would make sense if rates rose.
Higher-rate taxpayers could save substantially if they reap gains in 2012 and take losses in 2013, especially when the new health care tax is factored in, she explained. She pointed out that investors would need some gains next year to deduct losses beyond $3,000, but so long as tax rates do not decline, the risk of booking gains in 2012 is limited to having to pay tax on them a year earlier.
Certain moves can help lower tax bills if rates rise, Ms. Benz advised, and are still sensible even if they do not.
''Some investors may have rebalancing on their to-do list anyway,'' she said. That is a strategy of selling assets that have risen in value and buying others that have lagged, in order to restore a desired mix in a portfolio -- say, 60 percent stocks and 40 percent bonds. ''Given how strong equity gains have been,'' she said, ''it may be a good time to prune winners.''
The approaching fiscal cliff, she added, may provide a good excuse for investors to focus on mutual funds that are managed to limit portfolio turnover. When managers buy and sell less often, costs are kept down, as well as the taxable gains that shareholders must pay each year.
''A lot of factors,'' Ms. Benz said, ''are aligning in favor of some of these evergreen maneuvers.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DOMINIC BUGATTO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); TAX CONSULTING (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); POLITICS (66%); MARRIAGE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



264 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; DOWNLOAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Raj Chetty

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY. 
Kate Murphy is a journalist in Houston who writes frequently for The New York Times.

 BODY:
Raj Chetty, 33, is an Indian-American economist who accepted a tenured professorship at Harvard University while still in his 20s. He was awarded a MacArthur ''genius grant'' last week for his work in the emerging field of behavioral public finance, i.e., using empirical data to measure how economic policies and public-sector investment affect individual behavior and social outcomes.
READING What I often do is read the working papers of economists affiliated with the National Bureau of Economic Research. You come across the latest work of economists at all universities on various topics like health, education and other policy issues. On a broad level, you see that there are now much better sources of data in economics research. We used to rely on surveys, but now we have administrative data sources from health care, schools, grocery scanners, etc., so we don't have to rely just on what people tell us.
LISTENING Pandora stations seeded with OneRepublic or contemporary Bollywood musicians like A. R. Rahman, who blends traditional Indian melodies with Western music.
WATCHING A documentary I really liked was called ''Kumare,'' which follows an Indian-American guy who transforms himself into a guru. He studies in India, grows a beard and has the robes and then develops a following in Phoenix. At the end he reveals he's just a kid who grew up in New Jersey. The message is that spirituality and faith is not about specific people, it's within you.
FOLLOWING I surf Web sites of colleagues including David Card, a labor economist at Berkeley whom I tremendously respect. I also keep track of Jesse Shapiro at the University of Chicago, who does work on the economics of media, and my Harvard colleague Greg Mankiw, who blogs broadly about economics. I also like the Piano Guys on YouTube -- very creative renditions of classical and popular music.
CONCENTRATING One gadget that I love is my Bose noise-canceling headphones -- great on long trips to reduce noise fatigue. When you are trying to think deeply about a problem on a flight, it's hard to really zone in without them.
EATING Vegan ''charcuterie'' at Gather, a restaurant in Berkeley, Calif. It has really nice marinades and nice combinations.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN MCGLINN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); MUSIC (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%); MEAT FREE DIETS (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



265 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; DRAFT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Writing With Miles Davis

BYLINE: By AARON GILBREATH. 
Aaron Gilbreath, a writer in Portland, Ore., has written essays for The Kenyon Review, The Paris Review and The Threepenny Review.

 BODY:
If Miles Davis's midcentury trumpet solos can be described by a single phrase, it might be ''doing more with less.'' Despite his renown, Davis wasn't a flashy or highly technical player during the late 1950s and early '60s. He was melodic and economical, and his approach can teach prose writers a lot about the power of concision, suggestion and space.
It's difficult to characterize music in simple, sweeping terms. Davis explored numerous styles in a catalog that spanned decades; change defined him as much as his Harmon mute. But in the 1950s he started moving away from the early bebop of his mentor and band mate Charlie Parker to explore a leaner sound. Rather than squeezing as many notes and changes into solos as possible, Davis dispensed with clutter and ornamentation and pared his mode of expression down to one defined as much by the notes and phrases he played as by the silences left between them. As the critic Stanley Crouch once observed: ''Part of his genius as a musician was that he edited what he heard Charlie Parker play.''
Where David Foster Wallace showed writers like me the possibilities of labyrinthine stories and digressions, Davis showed me how to be affecting without being opaque, lyrical without being verbose. Editing imbued each note with more weight. It also let his melodic lines breathe, highlighting the depth and strength of his lyricism. No matter the tempo, Davis's precise, deft touch produced solos whose moods ranged from buoyant to brooding, mournful to sweet.
Many writers fall prey to the quintessential American notion that bigger is better. They overload their sentences, adding more adjectives, more descriptions, more component phrases, tangents and appositives to form sprawling, syntactical centipedes (like this one) whose many segments and exhausting procession repeat themselves and say the same thing in different ways, with different words, and exhibit an entire ideology: that prose's sensory and poetic impacts exist in direct proportion to the concentration of words. I know: I succumbed.
For many years I was impressed by flamboyant displays like the 255-word sentence in the journalist Marshall Frady's essay ''The South Domesticated,'' a monument to excess held together with only three dashes.
Something about youth draws many of us to maximalism: Hunter S. Thompson, Jack Kerouac, Terry Southern, Tom Wolfe. Maybe the style -- the sentences' wildness, decadence and audacity -- mirrors youth itself.
Yet the more I listened to Davis's music, the more his approach started to influence my writing style. His solos in ''Diane'' and ''It Could Happen to You'' show how measured, uncluttered phrasing increases rather than decreases the impact. Unlike so much fat-cat prose, Davis's solos didn't divert from their emotional center by wowing the audience with speed and facility. With less distraction, the force of his music landed more squarely on me.
I STARTED to experiment with economy as a form, hanging fewer phrases and images on the white walls of my essays. I also began to seek out writers who utilized this sparse style. Take Abigail Thomas. In her career, Thomas has distinguished herself, in part, by her brevity. She begins her memoir ''A Three Dog Life'' with succinct, meticulous bursts: ''This is the one thing that stays the same: my husband got hurt. Everything else changes. A grandson needs me and then he doesn't. My children are close then one drifts away. I smoke and don't smoke; I knit ponchos, then hats, shawls, hats again, stop knitting, start up again. The clock ticks, the seasons shift, the night sky rearranges itself, but my husband remains constant, his injuries are permanent.''
Like Davis's trumpet, Thomas's short sentences create mood. Structurally, she spins an ingenious centrifuge to take readers through the whirlwind of her confusion and despair.
Davis's saxophonist Cannonball Adderley once described him as ''the type of soloist who implies a lot of things.'' What is left unsaid colors much of Tony Earley's book ''Somehow Form a Family.'' To describe his poor family's character Earley chooses basic, unadorned details: ''Our clothes were clean. My parents worked. We went to church. Easter mornings, Mama stood us in front of the yellowbell bush and took our picture.'' I don't know what a yellowbell bush is, but I know that these people are upstanding, proud, independent, tight-knit, without the writer's spelling it out.
At least, that's how I interpret the passage. It's also how suggestion works. Brevity often invites speculation and facilitates a dynamic interaction between reader and writing.
Listening to Davis taught me these things. He also underscored the value of experimentation and reinvention, the fact that it was all right to change, to try new styles, even when evolution meant abandoning your old comfortable routines, or worse, forsaking peoples' favorites. Even though I don't particularly like the musical directions he took later in life, I admire his need to explore, to test the limits of his form and himself. ''The way you change and help music,'' Davis said, ''is by trying to invent new ways to play.'' Every day I sit down at the computer, I try to remember that.
This is an excerpt from Draft, a series on writing, at nytimes.com/opinionator.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); WRITERS (90%); MUSIC (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); JOURNALISM (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



266 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Ways to Play A Recovery In Housing

BYLINE: By NORM ALSTER

 BODY:
WALL STREET prides itself on seeing things before they are broadly apparent. But, sometimes, even the shrewdest investors get ahead of themselves. The stock market, the old joke goes, has predicted nine of the last five recessions.
Today, Wall Street seems highly confident that housing is on a clear path to recovery. Homebuilder stocks have been some of the strongest market performers all year.
''It does appear we've turned the corner and a housing recovery is under way,'' said Bradley B. Thomas, an analyst at KeyBanc Capital Markets, who looks to the combination of new-home and existing-home sales. In August, sales in both categories improved over the same month the previous year. It was the 14th consecutive month when the combined total showed year-over-year gains, Mr. Thomas says.
''We continue to expect recovery over the next three to five years, if not five to 10 years,'' he projects.
But in some ways, the housing situation is still murky. Yes, sales of new and existing homes, along with prices in many areas, have been rising. But, as Mr. Thomas points out, new home construction in August still remained 49 percent below the average monthly level for the last 30 years. And despite the Fed's persistent push to lower mortgage rates, credit remains tight. A large inventory of likely foreclosures continues to hang over the market.
None of this has damped the animal spirits propelling shares of homebuilders like Toll Brothers -- which climbed from just over $20 at the beginning of the year to $33.25 at the end of the third quarter. And the Pulte Group, a $6 stock late last year, more than doubled. So have the homebuilder stocks come too far, too fast? Has the easy money already been made? Are there better ways to play a developing recovery?
Donald W. Hodges, a manager of the Hodges Pure Contrarian fund, has ridden the homebuilder surge through his large position in Pulte, which represents over 8 percent of his portfolio. Mr. Hodges says he picked up the Pulte shares, which traded at $15.50 on Sept. 30, at an average cost of about $7.80. He says he believes that the shares could go sideways for a while but that he likes them for further gains over the long haul.
''If a person were a trader -- which I'm not -- he might trade out,'' Mr. Hodges says. But he says he thinks the housing recovery has just begun and should support further long-term gains for homebuilders like Pulte.
''I think it's still early in the game,'' he says. And he sees large homebuilders picking up market share as smaller ones keep dropping off. ''The small guy just doesn't have the staying power,'' he says. ''I think the business will end up more and more in the hands of the bigger companies.''
One fund manager who has been lightening up on large homebuilder positions is Jerome Dodson. He is sole portfolio manager of the Parnassus Fund and lead portfolio manager of the Parnassus Small-Cap fund. In recent months, Mr. Dodson has reduced his homebuilder positions by roughly half. Parnassus Small Cap has sold 600,000 shares of Pulte and 100,000 shares of Toll Brothers, and the Parnassus Fund has sold 550,000 shares of Pulte, 250,000 shares of D. R. Horton and 100,000 shares of Toll Brothers.
The funds trimmed positions, he explains, because homebuilders had reached target prices. Parnassus bases share-price targets on such valuation metrics as price-to-earnings, price-to-sales and price-to-book-value ratios.
Though Mr. Dodson has scaled back his bets, the two Parnassus funds are still banking on further housing gains. Before the sales, Pulte, D. R. Horton and Toll Brothers shares comprised roughly 15 percent of the Parnassus Fund portfolio. Even after the heavy selling, they comprised 7.4 percent as of Aug. 31.
Such large positions are justified, he says, because target prices may be raised as the housing recovery gains momentum. And he thinks it will. ''We're early in the recovery -- very early,'' he says.
Mr. Dodson explains how a homebuilder like Pulte, which exceeded its original target price, could still move higher. He estimates that Pulte will earn 50 cents a share in 2012. That would mean a rich P/E ratio of 31, more than Pulte would normally command. But he says he believes Pulte could eventually earn much more.
''In my view, they could earn $1 to $1.50,'' he explained. This would be possible, he reasons, even without a revival of the unsustainably loose credit conditions that produced the housing bubble.
Even if homebuilders have come too far too fast, there are other ways to bet on a sustained housing recovery. And even if housing prices aren't about to head due north, the mere fact that they have stopped going south should help some companies.
As long as housing prices were tumbling, homeowners were reluctant to invest in furniture and other improvements, according to Brian E. Peery, co-manager of the Hennessy Cornerstone Growth fund. But now, with prices stabilized and rising in many areas, homeowners are willing to ''put more money in the home,'' Mr. Peery said.
Late last year and early this year, the Hennessy fund established positions in the furniture company La-Z-Boy and the home furnishings retailer Pier 1 Imports. ''Pier 1 and La-Z-Boy are perfect examples of companies that are growing revenue faster than the economy,'' he said, adding that both were still reasonably valued.
The Hennessy fund favors companies whose total market value is less than 1.5 times their annual revenue. Both La-Z-Boy and Pier 1 qualify, with La-Z-Boy commanding a market cap that is less than 0.7 times sales.
DAVID D. WEAVER, co-manager of the Adams Express closed-end equity fund, has also been looking beyond the homebuilders. ''I do think the homebuilding group is one of the first to move, so some of the easy money has been made,'' Mr. Weaver reasoned. ''Going forward, the homebuilders probably aren't the best opportunity. There are probably better opportunities in related industries such as building products.''
One holding is the home improvement retailer Lowe's. ''We think the turnover in housing generates demand for product at Lowe's,'' he said.
The fund also has built a position in Masco, which sells home improvement items like cabinets and plumbing fixtures. During the housing crisis, Masco saw ''volumes drop off dramatically,'' Mr. Weaver notes. He sees ''quite a bit of opportunity for margin expansion'' as sales volume rebounds.
And he says he is confident that the housing rebound is more than a dead cat bounce. Population and demand will keep growing, and with time the market should absorb the overhang of excessive homebuilding from the years of reckless lending and shoddy securitization.
''After having overbuilt for a number of years,'' Mr. Weaver said, ''we have probably underbuilt recently.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Toll Brothers house under construction in Boca Raton, Fla. Homebuilder stocks have been some of the stock market's best performers this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) (BU14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOUSING STARTS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); EXISTING HOME SALES (75%); MARKET SHARE (73%); FORECLOSURE (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: PULTEGROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: PHM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (53%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (53%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (53%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



267 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 4617 words

HEADLINE: Events in New Jersey

 BODY:
A guide to cultural and recreational events in New Jersey. Items for the calendar should be sent at least three weeks in advance to njtowns@nytimes.com
Comedy
RED BANK Count Basie Theater John Caparulo. Oct. 12 at 8 p.m. $19.50 and $25. Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street. countbasietheatre.org; (732) 842-9000.
Film
NEW BRUNSWICK Rutgers University-Voorhees Hall New Jersey Film Festival, featuring more than 60 screenings and showcasing new international movies, American independent features, experimental and short subjects, classic revivals and documentaries. Through Nov. 2. $8 to $10. Rutgers University-Voorhees Hall, 71 Hamilton Street. njfilmfest.com; (848) 932-8482.
NEW BRUNSWICK State Theater ''Adriana Lecouvreur,'' opera by Puccini, captured live from the Royal Opera House. Oct. 10 at 7 p.m. $7 and $12. State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue. (732) 246-7469; statetheatrenj.org.
PARAMUS AMC Garden State ''The NY Film Critics Series,'' independent films before release, followed by a live discussion with cast, filmmakers and industry affiliates; screenings will also be held at Clearview Cinemas in Morristown. Oct. 15 through Dec. 12. AMC Garden State, 1 Garden State Plaza Boulevard. (973) 539-8785; nyfilmcritics.com.
For Children
JERSEY CITY Liberty Science Center ''Animation,'' exhibition that allows children to make animated cartoons and includes 30 hands-on activities involving art, math, science and technology. Through Jan. 4. Free with admission, $12.50 and $16.75. Liberty Science Center, 222 Jersey City Boulevard. (201) 200-1000; lsc.org.
MORRISTOWN Mayo Performing Arts Center ''Lowly Worm and Huckle Cat's Busytown Busy,'' musical. Oct. 14 at 1:30 and 4:30 p.m. $12 to $15. Mayo Performing Arts Center, 100 South Street. (973) 539-8008; mayoarts.org.
NETCONG Growing Stage Theater ''Peter Pan -- The Musical,'' book, music and lyrics by Piers Chater Robinson, based on the novel by J. M. Barrie. Through Oct. 14. $15 and $20. Growing Stage Theater, 7 Ledgewood Avenue. (973) 347-4946; growingstage.com.
NEW BRUNSWICK State Theater ''Jule Pasqual: Fall for Stories,'' storytelling, music, puppetry and more. Oct. 13 at 10 a.m. and noon. Free. State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue. (732) 246-7469; statetheatrenj.org.
Music and Dance
ENGLEWOOD Bergen Performing Arts Center ''Vienna: From Mozart to Strauss,'' presented by the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra, led by Thomas Wilkins. Oct. 14 at 3 p.m. $20 to $76. For tickets: (973) 624-3713; njsymphony.org. Bergen Performing Arts Center, 30 North Van Brunt Street. (201) 227-1030; bergenpac.org.
HAMILTON Grounds for Sculpture ''Outlet Dance Project,'' dance troupe that specializes in traditional and new dance forms. Oct. 7 at 2 p.m. $8 to $12. ''8th Annual Guild for Early Music,'' medieval, Renaissance and baroque music sung and played by local ensembles. Oct. 14, noon to 5:30 p.m. $8 to $12. Information: guildforearlymusic.org. Grounds for Sculpture, 18 Fairgrounds Road. groundsforsculpture.org; (609) 586-0616.
HILLSIDE Enlow Recital Hall at Kean University ''For the Love of Homeland,'' the Arco Ensemble with Guillermo Figueroa, conductor, performing works by nationalist composers. Oct. 14. $15 to $25. Enlow Recital Hall at Kean University, 215 North Avenue. enlowhall.kean.edu; (908) 737-7469.
MONTCLAIR Wellmont Theater Celtic Thunder. Oct. 7 at 2:30 and 8 p.m. $35 to $80. Fiona Apple. Oct. 12 at 8 p.m. $50. Wellmont Theater, 5 Seymour Street. (973) 783-9500; wellmonttheatre.com.
MORRISTOWN Mayo Performing Arts Center Jars of Clay, Christian rock band. Oct. 7 at 7 p.m. $27 to $57. Three Dog Night, '70s group. Oct. 11 at 8 p.m. $49 to $69. An evening with Bernadette Peters, actress and vocalist. Oct. 12 at 8 p.m. $69 to $129. The Doobie Brothers, rock. Oct. 16 at 8 p.m. $69 to $109. Mayo Performing Arts Center, 100 South Street. (973) 539-8008; mayoarts.org.
NEW BRUNSWICK State Theater The Midtown Men, special concert tour reuniting the four stars from the original cast of Broadway's ''Jersey Boys.'' Oct. 11 at 8 p.m. $32 to $67. Ailey II dance company will perform ''Shards,'' ''Echoes'' and ''Revelations.'' Oct. 12 at 8 p.m. $25 to $50. State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue. (732) 246-7469; statetheatrenj.org.
PRINCETON McCarter Theater Center John Hiatt, country. Oct. 12 at 8 p.m. $20 to $48. McCarter Theater Center, 91 University Place. (609) 258-2787; mccarter.org.
PRINCETON Richardson Auditorium Classical Series concert: ''China's Glory,'' Princeton Symphony Orchestra with Di Wu, piano, and Rossen Milanov, conductor. Oct. 7 at 4 p.m. $25 to $68. Richardson Auditorium, Princeton University, Nassau Street. princetonsymphony.org; (609) 497-0020
RED BANK Count Basie Theater ZZ Top: La Futura Tour. Oct. 7 at 7:30 p.m. $55 to $129.50. Three Dog Night, '70s group. Oct. 10 at 8 p.m. $35 to $65. ''Vienna: From Mozart to Strauss,'' by the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra, led by Thomas Wilkins. Oct. 13 at 8 p.m. $20 to $76. For tickets: (973) 624-3713; njsymphony.org. Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street.
countbasietheatre.org; (732) 842-9000.
SOUTH ORANGE South Orange Performing Arts Center Norbert Leo Butz, actor/singer, will perform bluegrass, blues, country and Broadway. Oct. 13 at 8 p.m. $25 to $50. South Orange Performing Arts Center, 1 Sopac Way. (973) 313-2787; sopacnow.org.
TEANECK Puffin Cultural Forum The Isle of Klezbos, all-women klezmer sextet. Oct. 7 at 4 p.m. $10. Puffin Cultural Forum, 20 Puffin Way. puffinculturalforum.org; (201) 836-3499.
TRENTON Trenton War Memorial ''Vienna: From Mozart to Strauss,'' presented by the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra, led by Thomas Wilkins. Oct. 12 at 7:30 p.m. $20 to $76. For tickets: (973) 624-3713; njsymphony.org. Trenton War Memorial, Memorial Drive. (609) 984-8400; thewarmemorial.com.
UNION Wilkins Theater, Kean University The Royal Drummers and Dancers of Burundi. Oct. 20 at 7:30 p.m. $20 and $30. Wilkins Theater, Kean University, 1000 Morris Avenue. (908) 737-7469; keanstage.com.
WAYNE Shea Center for Performing Arts, William Paterson University The Cast of ''Beatlemania,'' former members of the original Broadway cast of ''Beatlemania'' recreate the magic of the Fab Four. Oct. 13 at 8 p.m. $10 to $25. Shea Center for Performing Arts, William Paterson University, 300 Pompton Road. (973) 720-2371; wplive.org.
Outdoors
MORRISTOWN Fosterfields Living Historical Farm ''Harvest Wine Festival,'' sampling of more than 300 New Jersey wines, live music and food, www.newjerseywines.com. Oct. 13 and 14. $20 and $25; $40 for two-day pass. Wednesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m.to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Fosterfields Living Historical Farm, 73 Kahdena Road. (973) 326-7645; morrisparks.net.
Spoken Word
MADISON Drew University ''Poems Are Essential to Democracy,'' a celebration of Tracy K. Smith, Pulitzer Prize-winning poet at Drew University's Dorothy Young Center for the Arts. Oct. 10, 5:30 to 8:30 p.m. Drew University, 36 Madison Avenue. (609) 394-6524; njch.org.
NEWARK New Jersey Performing Arts Center The Geraldine R. Dodge Poetry Festival, performances, readings, discussions; multiple events in the Downtown Arts District. Oct. 11 through 14. $20 to $40. New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street. dodgepoetry.org; (888) 466-5722.
SHORT HILLS Greenwood Gardens ''Yoga and Wine.'' Claire Diab, founder of the American Yoga Academy, will host a seminar on the Essence of Yoga followed by wine and cheese on the terrace overlooking the gardens. Oct. 13, 3 to 5 p.m. $30 and $35. Greenwood Gardens, 274 Old Short Hills Road. (973) 258-4026.
WAYNE Shea Center for Performing Arts, William Paterson University An evening with Carl Bernstein, investigative journalist and author, who will discuss the weaknesses in our political system and the strength of the news media while analyzing the 2012 presidential campaign. Oct. 12, 7 to 9 p.m. $20 and $25. Shea Center for Performing Arts, William Paterson University, 300 Pompton Road. (973) 720-2371; wplive.org.
Theater
BEACH HAVEN Surflight Theater ''Steel Magnolias,'' by Robert Harling. Through Oct. 7. $36 to $54. Surflight Theater, Engleside and Beach Avenues. (609) 492-9477; surflight.org.
BLOOMFIELD Robert Van Fossan Theater, Westminster Arts Center ''Next to Normal,'' music by Tom Kitt, and book and lyrics by Brian Yorkey. Through Oct. 13. $18 to $25. Robert Van Fossan Theater, Westminster Arts Center, at Franklin and Fremont Streets. (973) 748-9008; campus.bloomfield.edu/Westminster.
CAPE MAY Cape May Stage, The Robert Shackleton Playhouse ''Time Stands Still,'' drama by Donald Margulies. Through Oct. 13. $15 to $35. ''The Belle of Amherst,'' the story of Emily Dickinson by William Luce. Oct. 17 through 27. $15 to $35. Cape May Stage, The Robert Shackleton Playhouse, Bank and Lafayette Streets. (609) 884-1341; capemaystage.com.
CAPE MAY East Lynne Theater Company ''It Pays to Advertise,'' by Roi Cooper Megrue and Walter C. Hackett. Through Oct. 13. $15 to $30. East Lynne Theater Company, 500 Hughes Street. eastlynnetheater.org; (866) 280-9211.
HACKETTSTOWN Centenary Stage Company, Lackland Center ''The Mousetrap,'' murder mystery by Agatha Christie. Through Oct. 21. $17.50 to $27.50. Centenary Stage Company, Lackland Center, 715 Grand Avenue. (908) 979-0900; centenarystageco.org.
HOBOKEN Monroe TheatreSpace in Hoboken Mile Square Theater Performance Fest, including staged reading, comedy and other performances. Through Oct. 14. $35; Fest All-Access Pass. Monroe TheatreSpace in Hoboken, 720 Monroe Street. milesquaretheatre.org; (201) 683-7014.
JERSEY CITY J CITY Theater ''Regrets Only,'' comedy by Paul Rudnick. Oct. 12 through 27. $20. J CITY Theater, 252 Ninth Street. jcity.org.
MADISON F.M. Kirby Shakespeare Theater, Drew University ''Charles Dickens's Oliver Twist'' adapted by Neil Bartlett. Through Oct. 7. $32 to $70. F. M. Kirby Shakespeare Theater, Drew University, 36 Madison Avenue. (973) 408-5600; njshakespeare.org.
MAPLEWOOD Burgdorff Center for the Performing Arts ''The Further Adventures of Hedda Gabler,'' comedy by Jeff Whitty, presented by the Theater Project. Through Oct. 7. $15 to $22. Burgdorff Center for the Performing Arts, 10 Durand Road. (973) 763-4029; thetheaterproject.org.
MILLBURN Paper Mill Playhouse ''A Chorus Line,'' musical, with book by James Kirkwood and Nicholas Dante, music by Marvin Hamlish and lyrics by Edward Kleban. Through Oct. 28. $34 to $89. Paper Mill Playhouse, 22 Brookside Drive. (973) 376-4343; papermill.org.
MONTCLAIR Alexander Kasser Theater ''Dog Days,'' world premiere of a dark comic opera composed by David T. Little, libretto by Royce Vavrek, based on the short story ''Dog Days'' by Judy Budnitz. Through Oct. 7. $15. Alexander Kasser Theater, 1 Normal Avenue. (973) 655-5112; peakperfs.org.
MORRIS TOWNSHIP Bickford Theater ''You're Gonna Love Tomorrow,'' with music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim. Through Oct. 14. $25 to $45. Bickford Theater, 6 Normandy Heights Road. (973) 971-3706; morrismuseum.org.
MORRISTOWN Mayo Performing Arts Center The Reduced Shakespeare Company presents ''The Complete History of America (Abridged) Special Election Edition.'' Oct. 13 at 8 p.m. $19 to $49. Mayo Performing Arts Center, 100 South Street. (973) 539-8008; mayoarts.org.
NEW BRUNSWICK George Street Playhouse ''One Slight Hitch,'' comedy by Lewis Black. Through Oct. 28. $35 to $67. George Street Playhouse, 9 Livingston Avenue. (732) 246-7717; gsponline.org.
PRINCETON McCarter Theater Center ''Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike,'' comedy by Christopher Durang. Through Oct. 7. $20 to $75. McCarter Theater Center, 91 University Place. mccarter.org; (609) 258-2787.
RAHWAY Union County Performing Arts Center ''Zero Hour,'' written by and starring Jim Brochu. Through Oct. 21. $30 to $35. Hamilton Stage for the Performing Arts at the Union County Performing Arts Center, 360 Hamilton Street. (732) 499-8226; ucpac.org.
RED BANK Two River Theater ''No Place to Go,'' by Ethan Lipton, with music composed and performed by Mr. Lipton and his orchestra. Through Nov. 4. $20 to $67. Two River Theater, 21 Bridge Avenue. (732) 345-1400; trtc.org.
SUMMIT Dreamcatcher Repertory Theater at Oakes Center ''The Neighborhood,'' musical, with book and lyrics by Laura Ekstrand and music by Joseph Zawila. Through Oct. 14. $15 to $30. Dreamcatcher Repertory Theater at Oakes Center, 120 Morris Avenue. dreamcatcherrep.org; (800) 838-3006.
TRENTON Passage Theater ''Blessed Are,'' drama by Jessica Bedford. Oct. 18 through Nov. 4. $12 to $33. Passage Theater, 205 East Front Street. (609) 392-0766; passagetheatre.org.
UNION Premiere Stages at Kean University ''iDream,'' by Eileen Trauth and Suzanne Trauth. Oct. 11 at 6 p.m.; Oct. 12 at 10 a.m.; Oct. 13 at 7 p.m. Free. Premiere Stages at Kean University, 1000 Morris Ave. (908) 737-4092; kean.edu/premierestages.
WEST ORANGE Luna Stage ''Vita and Virginia,'' by Eileen Atkins, adapted from correspondence between Virginia Woolf and Vita Sackville-West. Through Oct. 28. $25 to $45. Luna Stage, 555 Valley Road. lunastage.org; (973) 395-5551.
Museums and Galleries
ASBURY PARK Shore Institute of the Contemporary Arts ''Up From the Cracks: Revealing Artists Who May Have Fallen Through,'' group show. Through Nov. 16. Sundays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, 1 to 5 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Mondays and Tuesdays, by appointment. Shore Institute of the Contemporary Arts, 610 Cookman Avenue. (732) 483-4641; sica.org.
BOUND BROOK Hamilton Street Gallery ''Bound/Brook,'' group show. Through Oct. 25. Hamilton Street Gallery, 6 Hamilton Street. hamiltonstreetgallery.com; (732) 748-2092.
CLINTON Hunterdon Art Museum ''Disparate Roots: Contemporary Collage,'' the work of seven contemporary artists who approach collage in unique ways. Through Jan. 6. ''Ghost of a Dream,'' works of art from discarded lottery and scratch tickets and other popular culture detritus, by Adam Eckstrom and Lauren Was. Through Jan. 6. ''Jan Huling: Beaded Sculpture,'' three-dimensional works of art made by covering found objects with beads and other objects arranged in colorful patterns. Through Nov. 11. Donation: $5. Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hunterdon Art Museum, 7 Lower Center Street. (908) 735-8415; hunterdonartmuseum.org.
ENGLEWOOD Mark Gallery ''Voluptuous Abstraction,'' works by the contemporary artist Michael Kessler. Through Oct. 20. Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Mark Gallery, 11 Grand Avenue. (201) 568-6275; mark-gallery.com.
FORT LEE The Fort Lee Historical Museum ''Universal Studio Centennial Exhibit: From Fort Lee to Universal City,'' documenting the birth of Universal Studios in Fort Lee in 1912 via archival photos and studio artifacts. Through Jan. 27. Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 4 p.m.; Wednesdays, 7 to 9 p.m. Fort Lee Historical Museum, 1588 Palisade Avenue. thefortleehistoricalsociety.org; (201) 592-3580.
GALLOWAY Stockton College Art Gallery ''Perception Shift,'' works by Wade Aaron, Sienna Freeman, John Langdon, Bovey Lee, Kristen Neville-Taylor, Ryan Livingstone, Michelle Vitale Loughlin and Mat Ollig, with a short film by the Brothers Quay. Through Nov. 17. Reception: Oct. 14, 1 to 3 p.m. ''Learning From New Jersey,'' paintings by Tim Daly and Valeri Larko. Through Nov. 17. Mondays through Saturdays, noon to 7:30 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Stockton College Art Gallery, 101 Vera King Farris Drive. (609) 652-4214; stockton.edu.
HAMILTON Grounds for Sculpture ''Sharon Engelstein: True or False,'' large sculptures modeled after toys. Through Oct. 7. ''Ming Fay: Canutopia,'' mixed media. Through February. ''Heaven, Hell and the History of Punch,'' exhibition of works by Robert Taplin. Oct. 20 through April 10. $8 to $12; members and children under 5, free. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Grounds for Sculpture, 18 Fairgrounds Road. (609) 586-0616; groundsforsculpture.org.
HIGHTSTOWN Peddie School ''Nuits Blanches,'' recent paintings by Frank Rivera at the Mariboe Gallery. Oct. 12 through Nov. 2. Reception: Oct. 12, 6:30 to 8 p.m. Art gallery Mondays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Saturdays, 8 a.m. to noon. Peddie School, 201 South Main Street. (609) 944-7500; peddie.org.
HOBOKEN Hoboken Historical Museum ''Hoboken From Afar,'' digital-photo montages by Roslyn Rose. Through Nov. 4. $2; members, free. Tuesdays through Thursdays, 2 to 7 p.m.; Friday, 1 to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Hoboken Historical Museum, 1301 Hudson Street. hobokenmuseum.org; (201) 656-2240.
JERSEY CITY Liberty Science Center ''Art of Science Photo Exhibit,'' 45 images selected by Emmet Gowin, photographer, and Joel Smith, curator of photography at the Princeton University Art Museum. Through Feb. 28. Free with admission, $12.50 and $16.75. Liberty Science Center, 222 Jersey City Boulevard. (201) 200-1000; lsc.org.
JERSEY CITY Mana Contemporary ''How They Changed Our Lives: Senators as Working People,'' photography installation by Bonnie Englebardt Lautenberg. Oct. 7 through 20. Mana Contemporary, 888 Newark Avenue. (201) 484-1495, ext. 672; manafinearts.com.
LINCROFT Monmouth Museum ''Juried Photography Exhibition,'' 65 works in a variety of photographic media. Through Oct. 28. $7; members and children under 2, free. ''NJ Emerging Artists Series Exhibition: William Waggoner -- Medicine Show,'' acrylic paintings in a Pop Art and abstract style with imagery based on the dynamic visual language of classic comic books. Through Oct. 28. $7; members and children under 2, free. Tuesdays, Wednesday, Thursdays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Monmouth Museum, 765 Newman Springs Road. (732) 747-2266; monmouthmuseum.org.
MADISON Drew University ''Canastero,'' mixed media by Raymond Saa Stein at the Korn Gallery. Through Oct. 10. Tuesdays through Fridays, 12:30 to 4 p.m. Drew University, 36 Madison Avenue. (973) 408-3000; drew.edu.
MADISON Museum of Early Trades and Crafts ''Orphan to Apprentice: Child Indentures as Social Welfare,'' exhibition about government officials ''binding out'' or apprenticing orphans and pauper children from the colonial period through the 19th century. Through March 1. $3 and $5; members and children under 6, free. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Museum of Early Trades and Crafts, 9 Main Street. (973) 377-2982; metc.org.
MAHWAH Mahwah Museum ''Les Paul in Mahwah,'' exhibition about the longtime Mahwah resident, inventor, musician and self-taught engineer. Through June 1. $3 to $5; members and children under 5, free. Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Mahwah Museum, 201 Franklin Turnpike. mahwahmuseum.org; (201) 512-0099.
MILLVILLE Wheaton Arts and Cultural Center ''Festival of Fine Craft,'' works from more than 125 juried artists from across the country. Oct. 7, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. $7 to $10. Wheaton Arts and Cultural Center, 1501 Glasstown Road (Route 55). (856) 825-6800; wheatonarts.org.
MONTCLAIR Montclair Art Museum ''Patterns, Systems, Structures: Abstraction in American Art,'' exploring approaches to abstraction. Through May 19. ''Georgia O'Keeffe in New Mexico: Architecture, Katsinam and the Land,'' featuring Kachina dolls and 30 paintings and works on paper of New Mexico landscapes and architecture. Through Jan. 20. ''Saya Woolfalk: The Empathics,'' sculptures based on objects from the museum's collection of Native American art; videos commissioned for the large-scale outdoor video monitors on its grounds; and a performance developed and performed by the artist. Through Jan. 6. $12; seniors and students, $10; members and children under 12, free. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Montclair Art Museum, 3 South Mountain Avenue; (973) 746-5555; montclairartmuseum.org.
MOORESTOWN Perkins Center for the Arts ''Artists and Books,'' books transformed into works of art. Through Nov. 10. Perkins Center for the Arts, 395 Kings Highway. perkinscenter.org; (856) 235-6488.
MORRIS PLAINS The Stickley Museum at Craftsman Farms ''Styling an American Family: The 1910s at Gustav Stickley's Craftsman Farms,'' featuring fashions from Syracuse University's Sue Ann Genet Costume Collection. Through Jan. 6. The Stickley Museum at Craftsman Farms, 2352 Route 10 West. stickleymuseum.org; (973) 540-1165.
MORRIS TOWNSHIP Morris Museum ''On Vacation With Winslow Homer: Wood Engravings of an American Master.'' Through Oct. 7. $7 to $10. ''Skies Alive!'' Photographs and interactive computer games exploring bird migration. Through Nov. 18. ''Carry the Sky: An Exhibition of Birds in Art,'' work by New Jersey artists associated with ''Skies Alive!'' Through Nov. 18. Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Morris Museum, 6 Normandy Heights Road. (973) 971-3700; morrismuseum.org.
MORRISTOWN Macculloch Hall Historical Museum ''The Other Side of War: The Civil War on the Home Front,'' including letters, period images and poetry. Through Nov. 11. $4 to $8. ''Thomas Nast: President Maker and Campaign Breaker,'' illustrating the six presidential campaigns from 1864 through 1884. Through June 1. $6 to $8; children ages 6 to 12, $4; children under 5, free. Wednesdays, Thursdays and Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Macculloch Hall Historical Museum, 45 Macculloch Avenue. maccullochhall.org; (973) 538-2404.
NEW BRUNSWICK Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum ''Lynd Ward Draws Stories: Inspired by Mexico's History, Mark Twain, and Adventures in the Woods.'' Through June 30. ''Art=Text=Art,'' more than 100 American drawings, prints, conceptual works on paper and artists' books selected from the internationally respected collection of Sally and Wynn Kramarsky. Through Jan. 6. ''Prints by Mary Cassatt: In the Company of Women,'' 23 works from the Zimmerli's holdings of Mary Cassatt's prints. Through March 3. Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum, 71 Hamilton Street. zimmerlimuseum.rutgers.edu; (732) 932-7237.
NEW BRUNSWICK Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation ''The Collection: Past and Present Acquisitions,'' artifacts, photos, fine art, folk art and sculpture from the collection of the American Hungarian Foundation. Through Jan. 31. Donation: $5. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation, 300 Somerset Street. hstrial-pfazekaz.homestead.com; (732) 846-5777.
NEWARK The Newark Museum ''Generation Fit: Steps to a Healthier Lifestyle,'' interactive family exhibition on nutrition and exercise. Through Dec. 30. ''From Meiji to Modern: Japanese Art Goes Global, 19th to 21st Centuries.'' Through Dec. 31. ''The Teapot,'' exhibition of 66 teapots. Through Dec. 31. ''Present Tense -- Arts of Contemporary Africa,'' works from the museum's permanent collection, continuing. ''Expanding Africa at the Newark Museum: New Visions, New Galleries,'' contemporary and historical works in different media. Through May 1. ''Angels and Tomboys: Girlhood in 19th-Century American Art,'' traveling loan exhibition examining 19th-century depictions of girls in paintings, sculpture, prints and photographs. Through Jan. 6. $6 to $10; members, free. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. The Newark Museum, 49 Washington Street. (973) 596-6550; newarkmuseum.org.
NEWTONVILLE The African American Heritage Museum of Southern New Jersey ''101 Quilts,'' group show. Through Dec. 15. The African American Heritage Museum of Southern New Jersey, 661 Jackson Road. (609) 704-5495; aahmsnj.org.
OCEAN TOWNSHIP Township of Ocean Historical Museum ''Loved Ones Go to War: Local Stories of World War II.'' Through June 1. Township of Ocean Historical Museum, 703 Deal Road. oceanmuseum.org; (732) 531-2136.
PRINCETON D&R Greenway ''Sustainable Harvest,'' celebrating New Jersey farms and crops. Through Nov. 9. D & R Greenway, Marie L. Matthews Gallery, Johnson Education Center, 1 Preservation Place. drgreenway.org; (609) 924-4646.
PRINCETON Morven Museum and Garden ''Portrait of Place: Paintings, Drawings and Prints of New Jersey, 1761-1898, From the Collection of Joseph J. Felcone.'' Through Jan. 13. $6; seniors and students, $5. Tuesdays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Morven Museum and Garden, 55 Stockton Street. (609) 924-8144; morven.org.
PRINCETON Princeton University Art Museum ''Root and Branch,'' artworks from many eras celebrating trees as models of order and complexity. Through Nov. 25. ''Dancing Into Dreams: Maya Vase Painting of the Ik' Kingdom.'' Through Feb. 17. Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Princeton University Art Museum, Nassau and Witherspoon Streets. (609) 258-3788; artmuseum.princeton.edu.
PRINCETON Princeton University Library ''The Election for Woodrow Wilson's America,'' inspired by the centennial of Wilson's election to the presidency in 1912. Through Dec. 28. ''First X, Then Y, Now Z: Landmark Thematic Maps,'' featuring early thematic maps in meteorology, geology, hydrography, natural history, medicine and sociology/economics. Through Feb. 10. Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Princeton University Library, 1 Washington Road. princeton.edu/rbsc/; (609) 258-3184.
RED BANK Art Alliance of Monmouth County ''Dark, Dark Night'' and ''Illuminated,'' group shows. Through Oct. 24. Tuesdays through Saturdays, noon to 4 p.m. Art Alliance of Monmouth County, 33 Monmouth Street. artallianceofmonmouth.org; (732) 842-9403.
REDBANK New Jersey Museum of Contemporary Art ''Heads,'' more than 50 large-scale paintings installed on exterior walls of eight buildings in downtown Red Bank by the artist Dumitru Gorzo. Through Oct. 14. Free. New Jersey Museum of Contemporary Art. (908) 818-8288; njmoca.org.
RIDGEWOOD Unitarian Society of Ridgewood Fourth Annual North Jersey Fiber Arts Festival; spinning, weaving, knitting, crocheting, felting, rug hooking, embroidery, quilting; workshops and demonstrations. northjerseyfiberartsfestival.com. Through Oct. 7. $5 to $10. Unitarian Society of Ridgewood, 113 Cottage Place. uuridgewood.org; (201) 444-6225.
STONE HARBOR William Ris Gallery Paintings by William Neal McPheeters. Through Oct. 31. Sundays through Thursdays, 9 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. William Ris Gallery, 9400 Second Avenue. williamris.com; (609) 368-6361.
SUMMIT Visual Arts Center of New Jersey ''Picture Takers,'' group show featuring artwork made from or inspired by vernacular photography. Through Dec. 2. ''Margaret Murphy: Memory Theater,'' multimedia installation. Through Dec. 2. Visual Arts Center of New Jersey, 68 Elm Street. artcenternj.org; (908) 273-9121.
TEANECK Puffin Cultural Forum ''Women Artists Represented,'' photographs, mosaics and paintings in oil, acrylic and watercolor. Through Nov. 1. Tuesdays through Thursdays, noon to 4 p.m. Puffin Cultural Forum, 20 Puffin Way. (201) 836-3499; puffinculturalforum.org.
WAYNE William Paterson University ''Whose World Is This? Jane Dickson and Charlie Ahearn,'' multimedia exhibition created in the spirit of a ''call and response'' artistic dialogue between the painter Jane Dickson and the filmmaker Charlie Ahearn at the William Paterson University Galleries. Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Through Oct. 19. William Paterson University, 300 Pompton Road. (877) 978-3923; wpunj.edu.
WEST LONG BRANCH Pollak Theater, Monmouth University ''Ed Gallucci: The Crawdaddy Years and Beyond,'' selections from the freelance photographer Ed Gallucci. Through Oct. 17. Pollak Theater, Monmouth University, 400 Cedar Avenue. (732) 263-6889; monmouth.edu/arts_events.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ASBURY PARK: ''Asphyxiation'' (2012), oil on linen by Michael LaBua, is in the exhibition ''In Exile,'' featuring oil paintings by Mr. LaBua, at the Knowledge Bennett Gallery, 408 Emory Street, through Nov. 11. Information: (732) 898-2393 or knowledgebennettgallery.com. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL LaBUA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); CALENDARS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); DANCE (89%); FESTIVALS (78%); MOVIE REVIEWS (77%); DANCE COMPANIES (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); ANIMATION (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (74%); OPERA (74%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (72%); SCULPTURE (72%); DANCERS (69%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (61%); THEATER (57%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (64%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (83%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (58%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



268 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: 'Forced' Insurance Coverage

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

 BODY:
BORROWERS who allow their homeowners' insurance to lapse will often get stuck with a bill for much more expensive coverage, courtesy of their lenders.
Called force-placed or lender-placed insurance, these policies protect banks' interests when borrowers fail to follow through on the standard loan requirement that they maintain continuous coverage on their home.
The use of these policies soared during the recession, as homeowners who fell behind on their mortgages effectively stopped paying their insurance as well, since premiums are typically included in the monthly payment. From 2006 to 2011, direct earned premiums for lender-placed insurance more than tripled, to $3.1 billion from $954 million, according to the Insurance Information Institute. ''It's a privately run, high-risk market of last resort,'' said Robert P. Hartwig, the institute's president.
But state and federal regulators have begun to question whether mortgage servicers have been too quick to slap these high-priced policies into place, possibly because of financial incentives. At hearings held this spring by the New York State Department of Financial Services, a representative for American Home Mortgage Servicing acknowledged that a company affiliate receives 15 percent commissions from QBE First, a major provider of lender-placed insurance, for policies placed on its loans.
Because the premiums for lender-placed policies are 2 to 10 times as expensive as standard homeowner policies, these policies impose a considerable burden on already distressed homeowners, said Alexis Iwanisziw, a research and policy analyst for New York's Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project. In some cases, the cost more or less ensures foreclosure for a household on the brink; it can also hurt a borrower's chances for a loan modification.
Fannie Mae has adopted new mortgage servicer guidelines aimed at reducing the likelihood that borrowers will get stuck with a high-priced policy unnecessarily. The guidelines require the servicer to keep the borrower's own homeowner policy in force if at all possible, even if that means advancing money to cover the past-due premium.
The servicer is required to contact the borrower by letter at least twice before putting a lender policy in place. Such disclosures must explain that lender-placed insurance costs more, and that it covers only the structure of a house, not its contents.
Once a lender policy is in place, homeowners can still buy their own insurance and ask to have the lender policy canceled. Fannie Mae wants servicers to refund the premiums on canceled policies within 15 days of receiving evidence of other coverage.
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau proposed similar guidelines, as part of the mortgage servicer rules it is writing to implement the Dodd-Frank Act.
''The new rules would require the servicer to continue advancing the money to keep the homeowner's policy in effect rather than letting it lapse, so the forced-place insurance would never even come up,'' said Andrew Pizor, a staff attorney at the National Consumer Law Center.
Consumer advocates like Mr. Pizor are concerned that, under the bureau's proposal, the requirement does not apply if a borrower doesn't have an escrow account. The bureau is accepting public comment on the rules through Oct. 9; comments may be registered on its Web site.
Mr. Hartwig of the insurance institute defends the rates as a reflection of the risk of insuring the homes on a lender's books in bulk, ''sight unseen, irrespective of their condition.''
But Birny Birnbaum, a former insurance regulator and the executive director of the Center for Economic Justice in Texas, says losses on lender-placed policies amount to less than on standard policies. ''The responsibility comes down to regulators to do their job and say rates need to be reasonable and not excessive,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); FORECLOSURE (79%); MORTGAGE LOANS (79%); INSURANCE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (66%)

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (66%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



269 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: The Heartbeat, And the Twang, Of a City

BYLINE: By JOE RHODES

 BODY:
NASHVILLE
THE Bluebird Cafe doesn't look like much in the daylight, especially if you're just driving by. It's a storefront in a nondescript strip mall, wedged between Helen's Children's Shop and the Patio Hair Salon. You might, if you're looking for it, notice the blue canvas awning. Little else would catch your eye.
But at night it glows from within, white lights twinkling through the window, a neon bluebird above the tiny stage, which is crowded with singers and musicians, some of them famous, most of them not, playing to a tightly packed 100-seat house. No one in the audience checks smartphones when music is being played. No one dares interrupt the songs.
It's a place that matters to Callie Khouri, the Academy Award-winning writer of ''Thelma & Louise'' who lived in Nashville from 1978 to 1982 and who is making her first foray into network series television as creator and writer of the new ABC drama ''Nashville.'' She says this little room, where music is sacred and the people who play it are revered, contains the essence of what makes Nashville unique, as much if not more than the suburban Grand Ole Opry Entertainment Complex or the venerable downtown Ryman Auditorium, the longtime former home of the Opry. That all three places use church pews for seats is hardly a coincidence.
''Whenever I've seen shows or films set here, they just don't feel like the real Nashville to me,'' Ms. Khouri said, echoing a common local complaint that the city's metro area, with more than 1.6 million residents and a booming diverse economy (ranked by Forbes as one of the fastest-growing job markets in the country) is too often portrayed as a hillbilly Hollywood, populated by charlatans and rubes, slick talent managers and whiskey-guzzling fools.
''This is a place that can be mocked and made fun of, and sometimes it deserves it, like any place,'' said Ms. Khouri, whose mother and sister still reside here. ''But it also is an incredibly beautiful, cosmopolitan city, and I wanted to show that to the world. I want to represent it in a way that everybody who lives here would find completely realistic.''
On the surface ''Nashville,'' which begins Wednesday, could easily be mistaken for just another prime-time soap opera, a ''Dallas'' with a different skyline and more guitars, country music moguls instead of oil tycoons. There are, to be sure, back stabbings, betrayals and sordid affairs aplenty, the stuff of which soap operas -- and country songs -- are made. ABC's splashy promotional campaign has primarily focused on the rivalry between a young and ruthless country-pop diva (played by Hayden Panettiere) and a past-her-peak superstar (played by Connie Britton).
But Ms. Khouri and her fellow executive producer, R. J. Cutler, the documentarian best known for ''The War Room,'' are going for something more nuanced and ambitious than the promos might suggest, encompassing a musical universe that goes far beyond mainstream country. It will include original songs from a range of writers (some of them established artists like Lucinda Williams and Elvis Costello) sung by the cast members and produced by the Grammy-winning T Bone Burnett, who happens to be Ms. Khouri's husband and whose credits include ''O Brother, Where Art Thou?'' and ''Crazy Heart.''
''The driving theme of our series is how one controls one's destiny,'' Mr. Cutler said, speaking by phone from Los Angeles. ''Every one of these characters are at a crossroads in their lives and, of course, the crossroads is such a mythic theme in American musical history.''
A fan of Robert Altman's ''Nashville,'' Mr. Cutler said the show could be considered a contemporary response to that 1975 film. ''I don't want to overstate the connection because that's a film from a very particular moment in the 1970s, and this is a very different beast,'' he said. ''But it was a film where Nashville was a main character, where the music industry and the politics of the moment were intertwined. And that idea was very interesting and exciting to us.''
This ''Nashville,'' like Altman's, features a large ensemble cast (including Powers Boothe as a high-powered political puppet master and the singer-songwriter J. D. Souther as a music producer) and multiple interconnected story lines, many of them revolving around Ms. Britton's character, Rayna Jaymes, the 40-year-old ''reigning queen of country music'' who's also a wife and mother trying to hold on to her artistic integrity in the face of a shrinking music marketplace and competition from younger, hotter, more easily marketed acts.
''I think this happens to a lot of people, men and women, where you reach a point in your life and all of a sudden realize that things have changed,'' said Ms. Khouri, 54, two decades and a handful of film and TV projects removed from the flurry of attention that accompanied ''Thelma & Louise,'' her first screenplay. ''You suddenly realize that people are coming up behind you, that maybe somebody might want to replace you for less money. You don't get advance notice, I don't think. One day you wake up, and there's just the slightest whiff of a change. And if you're attuned to it, then you figure out how to deal with it.''
Ms. Britton, 45, who has wondered in public whether her Emmy-nominated role as a high school football coach's wife on ''Friday Night Lights'' might have been the peak of her career, said the part of Rayna resonated with her on a professional and personal level.
''I was drawn to the idea that we're going to see a woman who has been self-made, who has built and created this career and this family life, this empire, really, on her own. And we see her hit a place in her life where suddenly there are obstacles she had not anticipated.''
The question, for Rayna and all the characters in ''Nashville,'' Ms. Khouri said, is how do they deal with upheavals without losing their integrity, their sense of who they are. ''In a business as mercurial and fickle as the music business,'' she said, ''it's particularly hard. The whole business model is basically collapsing in on itself. And there comes a point where you start to realize that it really doesn't matter if you're good. It doesn't really matter if you're great. You can be all of those things and still not succeed.''
Except maybe in places like the Bluebird, where there are open mike nights when anyone with a guitar and a song has chance to perform. On the ''Nashville'' soundstage, which is a former Nascar racing team headquarters, production crews have constructed a stunningly exact replica of the Bluebird, making copies of every faded 8-by-10 glossy on the wall and even recreating the ancient ice maker. On the show, as in real life, the Bluebird will be a place where lives and careers intersect.
''One of the magical things about Nashville is just how many incredibly talented people are here and the way they support each other,'' Ms. Khouri said.
''Nashville is the place where I first realized how impossible it is to look at someone and know what is inside them, what special something they possess,'' she said. ''There's something about that connection here, not just between the artists but with the audience, that we want to come across in this show, that connection to what music actually is, before it's produced and sold to you as a commodity.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The stars of ''Nashville'' include Connie Britton, with musicians at top, and Hayden Panettiere, below. At right, Callie Khouri, the Oscar winner who helped create the series, and her husband, T Bone Burnett, who's producing the show's music. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATHERINE BOMBOY-THORNTON/ABC
 CHRISTOPHER BERKEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); RETAILERS (90%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (89%); COUNTRY MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (87%); CHILDREN (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (70%); CITY LIFE (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%)

PERSON: HAYDEN PANETTIERE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (95%) TENNESSEE, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



270 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: No Child Left Behind. Just a Demographic.

BYLINE: By ROSS RAMSEY. 
rramsey@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Be a Martian for a second. You just landed in Texas. You know nothing about politics or government, and you are looking to see what these humans are up to -- to judge them by their deeds.
Have a look at what they are building over here. These Texans have a system for educating their children, for giving them the basic information and skills they'll need to function as adults, culturally, intellectually and economically. They seem to have a theory about building human capital, a notion that public education will enrich the citizens and the society in an ongoing, self-replenishing cycle.
But the machine the Texans built to accomplish all of that doesn't work the same way for every part of its population. In fact, the biggest problems are in the fastest-growing part of the population. It's a supply-chain issue: if the state is dependent on an educated population, and if a growing part of the population isn't getting that education, then the future of that society might not be what the designers had in mind.
As of 2010, 40.4 percent of Hispanics in the state 25 and older had completed something less than a high school education, according to the United States Census Bureau. Another 25.8 percent topped out their education with high school diplomas, and only 11.6 percent had college degrees. Compare that with whites: 8 percent of those adults didn't finish high school, 25.3 percent stopped with a diploma and 34.1 percent had college degrees.
That's now.
Over the last decade, Hispanics accounted for two-thirds of the state's overall population growth. The population of minors was even more telling -- 95.1 percent of that growth was in the Hispanic population. The population of Anglos younger than 18 in Texas dropped by 7.4 percent. Steve Murdock, a demographer at Rice University, forecasts that Hispanics will account for the majority of the population in the next 20 years, depending on how the state grows. It could happen sooner at current growth rates.
Here's another thing: The Hispanic population is disproportionately young. More than a third are younger than 18, compared with a quarter of the overall population and about a fifth of the white population.
They are children. They'll be in schools. And if they don't do better than the current contingent, they will be a worry for themselves and the root cause of some huge public policy headaches.
Whatever you think of the numbers, think about what the state is constructing here. Disregard, for the moment, school finance, test scores, teacher pay, vouchers -- all the normal content of conversation and debate about public schools. You are a Martian, here to figure out what's going on and what the future might hold.
As of 2010, 26.8 percent of the state's Hispanic population lived in poverty, compared with 17.9 percent over all, and 9.5 percent for whites. Median household income was $37,087; the overall median was $48,615, and the median in white households was $59,517.
If the numbers persist, that population will have problems operating at full potential in the Texas of the future. That's trouble for them. It's trouble for future employers looking for help. And it's trouble for the next generation of well-trained, working taxpayers who will have to carry that group, either as social cases, prison cases, undertrained employees, whatever.
They will be the band that didn't practice, the team that didn't work out. Dead weight.
Now take off the Martian mask and reinsert the politics and public policy, the school finance, the vouchers, standardized tests and all the rest.
The state's political class is talking more about infrastructure and about longer-term problems that naturally get ignored when the economy is bad and everyone's attention is on the immediate problems they face. The state economy has improved enough that people from both parties are talking again about water, roads, electricity -- big and expensive issues that require a lot of planning and conversation about what Texas will look like in the future.
Some of them include education in the infrastructure conversation. And as with those other things, the planners can squint a little and see what the future might look like if they do something now and what it might look like if they don't.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (71%); EDUCATION FUNDING (70%); CENSUS (70%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (67%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



271 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; VIDEO GAMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1842 words

HEADLINE: Gaming Faces Its Archenemy: Financial Reality

BYLINE: By CHRIS SUELLENTROP and STEPHEN TOTILO. 
Chris Suellentrop, the deputy editor of Yahoo News, and Stephen Totilo, the editor in chief of the gaming Web site Kotaku.com, write about video games for The New York Times.

 BODY:
NOT long ago the creators of video games were declaring their medium the art form of the 21st century. Games could aspire to the drama and spectacle of movies but would captivate society with their irresistible interactivity.
More than 200 million Wii, Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 systems were sold worldwide. Sales of portable gaming machines surged as well. Upward of 12 million subscribers were paying $15 a month to play the online game World of Warcraft, and competitors were plotting to develop worthy rivals. The motion-sensing Kinect system from Microsoft generated considerable buzz, with its promise of freeing players from having to push buttons and wave wands.
And yet the gaming world has found itself teetering at the edge of a financial cliff. In the first eight months of this year retail sales of video games plummeted 20 percent in the United States. That followed a lackluster performance in 2011, when sales fell 8 percent. An analysis on the Web site Gamasutra this year said it was possible that 2012 would be the worst year for retail video game software and hardware sales since 2005.
The struggling economy has certainly been a factor in the decline, especially considering that young men -- long a core audience for games -- were hit so hard during the recession. Another development will sound familiar to anyone who once had a groovy record collection: the democratizing, disrupting effect of less expensive digital downloads has changed the business model. Nearly everywhere, it seems, people have been sharing Words With Friends, slinging Angry Birds at pigs or springing their creatures through a precarious Doodle universe. All those games, made for smartphones, sure are popular, and the financial picture improves when their sales are included, but they can be had for pennies and seemingly become disposable almost as fast as they are released.
The video-game industry barely survived the brutal recession of the early 1980s: 29 years ago this fall Atari buried millions of unsold video games -- believed to be mostly copies of Pac-Man and E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial -- in a New Mexico landfill. Are video games facing another devastating crash? Have developers been putting out inferior work, or is something beyond their control going on? What should they do to adapt? The company credited with saving the industry last time was Nintendo, which finally plans to introduce its new Wii U, the successor to the 2006 Wii, next month. Can Nintendo lead the way again?
To try to get a handle on some of these issues, two video-game critics -- Chris Suellentrop, deputy editor of Yahoo News, and Stephen Totilo, editor in chief of the gaming site Kotaku.com -- recently discussed the challenges facing the industry.
STEPHEN TOTILO This has been a year of underachievement for many of gaming's top achievers. How very 2012 it was for a game like Draw Something to capture the world's attention in February; attract about 14 million players a day in April; seduce the FarmVille company Zynga to buy the game's maker, Omgpop, for $180 million; and by the end of the month have its daily player base fall to 10 million daily. How very 2012 it was for the vaunted hit-maker Blizzard to release a game, Diablo III, that was 11 years in the making and then have to repeatedly apologize for its shortcomings. The Kinect might be selling Xboxes, but it isn't helping sell that many games, because there are hardly any Kinect games that anyone talks about and very few that sell. It's just a watered-down repeat of the Wii phenomenon.
This has been the year of sinking game company stocks, stagnating console sales, creative miscues from some of the medium's best creators and a lack of many blockbuster games -- from big companies. Note those last three words. It has been a very bad year for corporate video games. You know, gaming's elite.
CHRIS SUELLENTROP Yes, it's been a bad year for games that require the purchase of a physical disc with cover art and liner notes -- I mean, an instruction booklet -- an oddly retro aspect of the medium. And to take the baton you're offering, yes, 2012 has been a remarkable year for downloadable titles, many of them created by independent developers working outside the traditional studio system. I wouldn't call three of the year's best games -- the downloadable Journey, Fez and Papo & Yo -- representative of gaming's peasant class. Still, I don't envision the next title from thatgamecompany, the developer behind the artful, downloadable PlayStation games Flower and Journey, making up for the industry's 30 percent revenue decline.
Besides, do you really think that the quality of individual titles is the cause of this collapse? The nation is facing nothing less than a fiction crisis. Four of the five best-selling books last year on Amazon were works of nonfiction, and the fiction title, ''Mill River Recluse,'' was a Kindle download. The theatrical box office recently saw its worst weekend in 10 years. Narrative television -- the quality of shows like ''Breaking Bad'' and ''Mad Men'' notwithstanding -- is in decline. The most-watched shows are sports and reality spectacles. Anyone who has engaged in the make-believe required for most video games to work their magic knows that games are fiction too. Why would games be immune?
TOTILO Because video games aren't all narrative fiction. Apologies to fans of the interactive storytelling pioneers of BioWare, the studio behind Mass Effect, and to those still searching for Bowser's motivation for repeatedly kidnapping Princess Peach, but few people play video games for the story. Or for the acting. Or for many of the other cinematic aspects that can't mask a bad game.
On the subway I ride daily the only video-game-related decline is the tilting down of heads so people can see the narrative-free games on their cellphones. These people could, of course, be reading books or watching movies. Many of them are not. They have an appetite for the interactivity of a game. They want to poke at a system and have it, or an opposing gamer, respond. They want to play.
SUELLENTROP More important, the nation is facing a more tangible crisis, one that has been particularly punishing to young men. Ours is an absurdly expensive pastime. You need an HD TV, a console (often with some peripherals) and an Internet connection before you spend a single dollar on software or subscription fees for services from Xbox and PlayStation. Forget the jokes about twentysomething slackers playing Call of Duty in their parents' basements. The real elites are the people who can afford a dozen new games every year.
TOTILO Yes, gaming is an expensive hobby. It's more opera than it is, say, radio. But you have your finger on the scales if you're counting the cost of an HD TV as a tax on enjoying video games. We might as well count the electric bill and the years of schooling that enabled us to read said bill.
SUELLENTROP Well, you can see a movie in a theater for $12 (though, yes, the cost for a family of five approaches that of a video game) without any upfront costs. You can enjoy a new book for less than $30 without any additional equipment.
TOTILO Gaming is actually becoming a less costly hobby. This was the year that the monthly $15 subscription for major online games became nearly obsolete. In its place we're seeing more so-called free-to-play games. These cost nothing to start playing, but you can pay a buck or two here or there for perks or to advance more quickly.
This is the model that allows Zynga to retain several million daily players for its games, far more than most modern $60 games attract, even while it is supposedly slumping. This is the model behind games that rocket up the iTunes charts. This is the model that turned Star Wars: The Old Republic, a mightily expensive endeavor published by the industry giant Electronic Arts, from a subscription game to a free-to-play game in just 10 or so months.
Still, when every experience in a game is something a creator can nickel and dime you for, you're in for something very different. We're not talking about the equivalent of paying for the next chapter of a book; it's more like paying a few bucks extra for the adjectives, unless you want to wait a long time for them to ''unlock.'' Surely no self-respecting reader would stand for this. Why should gamers?
SUELLENTROP New business models will certainly affect how games are made. But are the failings of the industry's current one relevant to the medium's artistic merits? Nearly everyone who talks about video games -- reporters, critics, creators, players -- places too much emphasis on money as the foremost measurement of success. As the independent game designer Chris Hecker put it in a lecture three years ago, ''You get the impression that the game industry wouldn't care if some prince in Dubai bought a single copy of a game that costs $24 billion -- Call of Madden Duty Halo -- as long as we're the ones he's buying it from.''
Cultural impact is about more than sales. The industry has had plenty of blockbusters, but it's still looking for what Art Spiegelman did with ''Maus'' -- bring broad respect to the medium that winning the Pulitzer Prize did for the graphic novel.
And while it's true that the $60 plastic-disc model is on its deathbed, new ways to pay for game development seem to arise every week. The downloadable episodic series The Walking Dead from Telltale Games -- much better than the TV show, by the way -- is demonstrating that you can unveil something in parts and get people to pay $5 for two- or three-hour increments of a game that once might have been released in one fell swoop. Or you can crowd-source your venture capital on Kickstarter. The Internet is doing to video games what it does to every industry: disrupting the old models, creating new ones and lowering the barriers to entry.
TOTILO When gaming collapsed in the early '80s, Nintendo was the savior by reviving the concept of the home game console and unleashing the creative genius behind classics like Super Mario Bros. It came through again with the intuitive, inviting Wii. The company's next console, the Wii U, will be the first new console on the market in six years. The wait for a new machine has been absurdly long, and that has surely cost corporate gaming some buzz.
While the Wii U is promising -- the basic concept is that of a powerful TV game console that displays additional graphics on a six-inch screen embedded in your controller -- we won't even see the next Xbox or PlayStation until a year from now, at the earliest. Upstarts like the hackable, crowd-financed console Ouya or the head-mounted display called the Oculus Rift are interesting. But the game lover in me is almost as uncomfortable with the hype for hardware as I am with the obsession with finances. We can only weep for corporations so much. Big companies no longer dominate the creation of video games. Freethinking, independent creators are on the rise, and they're making some fascinating games.
The play's the thing. All else is second.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, an image from the downloadable PlayStation game Journey. Right, Telltale Games' episodic series The Walking Dead, available in increments for about $5 each. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SONY COMPUTER ENTERTAINMENT
TELLTALE GAMES)
Above, Star Wars: The Old Republic, a game that its publisher, Electronic Arts, paid a lot to develop. Right, Papo & Yo, one of 2012's better new offerings. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BIOWARE
 MINORITY MEDIA, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (AR7) DRAWING (DRAWING BY EMMA FROST) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER GAMES (92%); FILM (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (78%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (77%); MOTION DETECTORS (71%); WEB SITES (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (63%); LANDFILLS (50%)

COMPANY: NINTENDO CO LTD (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



272 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: Housing Fever Can Work Both Ways

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. SHILLER. 
Robert J. Shiller is professor of economics and finance at Yale.

 BODY:
THE boom and bust in the housing market was a dual social epidemic. First, there was an epidemic of positive thinking that led to high expectations for long-term home price appreciation -- and for the economy, too. Then, after 2005, an epidemic of negative thinking discouraged many people from buying a house or from spending in general, and kept many employers from hiring.
We would all like to think that our economy makes more sense than that, and, in some ways, it does.
Certainly, there were other factors behind this boom and bust. But many of them -- for example, Federal Reserve actions, government policies toward housing, even the effects on the United States of developments in other countries' economies -- were arguably driven by this same social epidemic.
In 2004, there was little about the economic climate that would explain why a housing peak should be coming soon. The world was widely believed to be slowly emerging from the early-2000s recession, which had been associated with the bursting of the stock market bubble of the 1990s. The stock market was just starting to recover. It seemed a time of healing. But something else, hard to discern, was driving things.
Recognizing when you are being caught up in a social epidemic is often difficult. As a first-time father, 30 years ago, I wanted to give my son a name that was less common than mine. There were far too many other ''Bobbies'' and ''Bobs'' when I was growing up. My wife, Virginia, and I settled upon the name Benjamin, which was my father's name, and which seemed a rarer choice.
But when Ben got to kindergarten, there was another Ben in his class, and we soon realized that we had somehow chosen a common and trendy name. In fact, according to Popular Baby Names by Decades, a Web page from the Social Security Administration, the name Benjamin rose from a ranking of 130th in the 1960s to 31st in the 1980s. (It moved up to 25 in the 2000s.) Its popularity probably grew even faster in our own circles. Others were giving this name to their wee ones in a slow contagion. How we were influenced still mystifies us, though my wife does recall meeting one other baby Ben in the months before our son was born.
Most people seem to know that social epidemics are occurring, at least at some level. In fact, the term ''going viral'' has been going viral itself. A Google Trends search confirms that the phrase has taken off in the last few years. It is possible to go deeper -- to ask what people are thinking, and infer something about the social epidemics that drive the economy.
KARL CASE, of Wellesley College, and I have been trying to do that for over a decade. We have conducted an annual mail survey of home buyers for years, with a total now of nearly 5,000 completed questionnaires. The survey, supported by the Yale School of Management, has covered the years leading up to the 2006 peak in home prices, and the years of disappointment thereafter.
The mailed questionnaire survey posed multiple-choice questions and a number of open-ended essay questions, where respondents could fill in their answers in their own words. Anne Thompson of McGraw-Hill Construction joined us in analyzing the data we collected, and we presented our paper ''What Have People Been Thinking?'' last month at the Brookings Institution.
We found that those who filled out our questionnaires were generally well informed about recent home price trends, and that their expectations for the next year's home price appreciation were actually on the sober side. There were no signs of bubble thinking in these short-run expectations.
But expectations about long-term price appreciation -- for what home prices would do over the next 10 years -- were less sober. The data showed some odd patterns, not easily tied to any objective data. How does anyone know where home prices will go over 10 years? Somehow, people form opinions about the vague and distant future -- just as they form opinions about baby names -- and these opinions are crucial in their home-buying decisions.
Notably, in 2004, when the housing boom was going gangbusters, even though the 30-year mortgage rate was above 6 percent, our survey tells us that people expected long-term home price growth of over 12 percent a year. In other words, if you borrowed 90 percent of the money to buy a $100,000 house, you would expect to make $12,000 on the house's appreciation, and pay $5,400 interest, for a one-year profit of $6,600 -- a return of 66 percent in just one year on the down payment of $10,000.
So you can see why people were excited about real estate back then. It's not that they were sure that home prices could never fall. Rather, they thought that the long-term trend was so strongly upward that any conceivable short-run price falls would surely be reversed, and then some.
Since then, the mortgage rate has fallen to well under 4 percent, but long-term expectations, as we measured them, have fallen faster, so that the earlier 6 percent spread is undeniably gone. That does a lot to explain the slow markets we have been observing lately.
BUT why did people have such extravagant expectations, and why did they change so abruptly?
We don't really know. But in our 2004 survey, when the rate of home price increase was highest, people wrote that they were thinking about ever-growing population and limited land, about economic growth and eager Asian investors, about ''flippers'' making hot trades. All of these ideas suggested that it was important to dive in sooner rather than later. If Cousin Bill's housing investment looked enviable, you might not hesitate to buy a home, even at a price that seemed a bit high.
No respondents volunteered the phrase ''housing bubble'' on our questionnaires that year, as if it never crossed their minds that housing booms could come to an ugly end. That's remarkable, given people's recent experience with stock market losses. They all apparently thought that housing was different back then.
After 2004, the use of ''housing bubble'' grew among our survey participants. And a Google Trends search confirms that there was a huge burst in Web searches for ''housing bubble'' in 2005. That seems to be when many people were thinking, ''Just what is a housing bubble, anyway?'' and had to learn once and for all what it meant.
People waiting to buy a home may be waiting for a sense that prices have a rosy long-term future. Home prices in the United States have been rising for several months, and that is generating some optimism that now is the time to buy. However, the social waves also carry other, less encouraging stories that compete with such optimism -- for example, foreclosures, unemployment, Europe's troubles and the Asian slowdown.
Will optimism about real estate emerge as a leading story? If this is a major upturning point for the housing market, it is still sociologically opaque.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS KIM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); EPIDEMICS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); TRENDS (70%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (69%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



273 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; CRIME; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Doomed to Repeat It

BYLINE: By MARILYN STASIO

 BODY:
The giddy modern brides and grooms who exchange vows in magnificent antebellum mansions may fancy themselves Southern gentry coming home to reclaim their lost birthright -- but there's a good chance some of the guests will feel like field slaves trespassing on forbidden ground. That's the eerie sense of dislocation Attica Locke effortlessly captures in her second novel, THE CUTTING SEASON (Dennis Lehane/HarperCollins, $25.99), which is set in the present day at Belle Vie, a restored plantation on the Mississippi River.
As she managed to do so well in her first novel, ''Black Water Rising,'' Locke draws on the past to remind her characters how much it has shaped their identities and how much it continues to shape the choices they make. The de facto historian at Belle Vie is Caren Gray, who grew up there as the daughter of a plantation cook and has been this tourist attraction's general manager ever since she and her 9-year-old daughter left New Orleans in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.
Although Caren is almost frighteningly self-possessed, her sang-froid is shaken when she stumbles over the body of a murdered migrant worker employed by the giant sugarcane operation adjacent to Belle Vie. The police are quick to suspect Donovan Isaacs, a member of the troupe of actors who perform a scripted re-enactment of the plantation's role in the Civil War. In coming to Donovan's defense, Caren is startled to discover that this young firebrand -- entrusted with such deathless dialogue as: ''Dem Yankee whites can't make me leave dis here land. Dis here mah home. Freedom weren't meant nothing without Belle Vie'' -- recently quit school to film his own corrective version of local history.
For a character so smart and so appealing, Caren is astonishingly dense about a lot of things that are going on behind her back. Even more astounding is her disinclination to follow up on the shocking revelations that bring the mystery to a close. But if the schematic plot and dangling resolution speak badly for Locke's construction values, the language of her storytelling is sturdy and absorbing. Who can resist the opening scene of a wedding in which a cottonmouth ''measuring the length of a Cadillac'' falls from a live oak into the lap of the bride's future mother-in-law, then is brushed away with the observation that ''it only briefly stopped the ceremony, this being Louisiana after all.''
Scandinavian sadism, which took a nose dive after the untimely death of Stieg Larsson, perked up when the Danish author Jussi Adler-Olsen muscled onto the scene with ''The Keeper of Lost Causes,'' which devised a special cold-case division called Department Q for a maverick homicide cop named Carl Morck. Although relegated to the basement and presented with a Syrian maintenance man as an assistant, Morck managed to find a female politician who had been kept captive and starved for five years.
Morck and his colleague, Assad, are still in the basement in THE ABSENT ONE (Dutton, $26.95), but they've been joined by Rose Knudsen, a gifted researcher who never made it out of the police academy but proves invaluable on an investigation involving a group of Copenhagen millionaires who get erotic thrills from tracking and killing exotic animals. Adler-Olsen may lack Larsson's political passion, but he brings great inventiveness to descriptions of the techniques of torture, which keeps the sadistic brutality from becoming repetitive or even (God help us) dull.
There's nothing shameful about love, so no reader should feel embarrassed about mourning the loss of a beloved sleuth like Marshal Guarnaccia, the kindly detective who figured in the Florentine mysteries of Magdalen Nabb, who died in 2007. But Florence is still in good hands, entrusted to a private investigator named Sandro Cellini, who keeps a wary eye on the ancient city in a string of mysteries by Christobel Kent. It took me a while to catch up with the ''impatient, irascible, impetuous'' Cellini, who is more temperamentally akin to Aurelio Zen, the detective in Michael Dibdin's politically charged mysteries. THE DEAD SEASON (Pegasus, $25.95) isn't the first book in this series, but it's a terrific introduction to the intractable problems of a modern-day city plagued by illegal immigrants, an exhausted economy and a broken system of government.
Call them what she will, Laura Lippman's out-of-series ''mysteries'' tend to be extended character studies of interesting women caught up in unusual circumstances that can get a little dicey without posing a convincing threat to life, limb or personal happiness. AND WHEN SHE WAS GOOD (Morrow/HarperCollins, $26.99) runs true to form, but as usual, the circumstances are so extraordinary that the absence of tension tends to be forgotten -- if not forgiven. Heloise Lewis, the heroine of Lippman's latest not-a-mystery, is a single mother with an 11-year-old son who keeps an extremely low profile in her suburban Maryland community. She calls herself a ''socially progressive libertarian,'' lobbies on behalf of underemployed women and belongs to an unorthodox, and highly entertaining, church. But behind the scenes, Heloise is actually the madam of a high-priced call girl operation that requires an authorial struggle to turn into something capable of attracting a serious criminal element. Without taking away from the nice character profiling, Lippman's effort falls flatter than Heloise's attempt to play at being a soccer mom.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NIEMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HISTORY (89%); CRIMINAL TRESPASS (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); MURDER (71%); WRITERS (71%); HURRICANES (70%); HURRICANE KATRINA (70%); MIGRANT WORKERS (66%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (53%); TROPICAL STORMS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); DENMARK (69%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



274 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: Halcyon Years

BYLINE: By LIESL SCHILLINGER. 
Liesl Schillinger is a regular contributor to the Book Review.

 BODY:
IN SUNLIGHT AND IN SHADOWBy Mark Helprin
705 pp. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. $28.
At last, the story can be told: of the love of a man for a woman so strong that it can leap class barriers and religious taboos; of a talented ingénue's struggle to flout corrupt critics and float to Broadway stardom; of the valiant actions of a band of brothers fighting the Hun in occupied France; and of the moral courage of regular guys in peacetime, driven by their yearning for justice, law and order to stand up against New York's brutish Mafia. Their attack comes with the blessing (and, more usefully, the munitions) of a quirky retired millionaire who's devoting his golden years to founding the C.I.A. It's incredible that this story -- or, to be more precise, these stories -- hasn't been told before. Except that, of course, it has, and they have . . . though never before in more than 700 consecutive pages, between the covers of one book.
Mark Helprin's sprawling new novel, ''In Sunlight and in Shadow'' (the title seems to have been inspired by the dirge-like ballad ''Danny Boy,'' so indispensable to mob flicks like ''Miller's Crossing'' and ''Goodfellas''), uses language, not music, to conduct the swelling themes of at least half a dozen Oscar-winning films to lyric crescendos. Passionate, earnest, nostalgic and romantic in multiple senses of the word (infused with love, straining with valor, prolific in fable), it resurrects with throat-catching regret and nickel-gleam luster the automats and assumptions of the America of the 1940s, both the sets and the sensibilities. Quite directly, and repeatedly, Helprin proclaims his novel's mission through the reflections and perorations of his hero, Harry Copeland -- a 32-year-old American paratrooper of Jewish ancestry who looks like a young Clark Gable and has just returned to Manhattan after serving death-defying overseas missions in World War II.
Harry decides his chief peacetime duty is to use his gift for gab to further his ''overriding purpose,'' namely: ''By recalling the past and freezing the present he could open the gates of time and through them see all allegedly sequential things as a single masterwork with neither boundaries nor divisions.'' Once he opens these gates, Harry will flood his audience with his redemptive epiphanic impression that ''the world was saturated with love.'' First, though, he must save his dead father's leather goods business from Mafia goons and woo and win Catherine Thomas Hale, a 23-year-old heiress, songstress and all-around goddess he spots from a distance on the Staten Island Ferry. Falling in love with her at first sight, naturally, Harry mentally itemizes her attributes, from her hair (''bright as gold'') to her glasses (''a foil to the sharp assertiveness of her nose, which was small, perfectly formed, gracefully projecting'') to her teeth (''alluring palisades that cried out to be kissed'') to her breasts (''not large,'' but possessed of ''a perpetually attractive thrust'') before economically concluding that she is ''just beautiful, beyond description.''
Harry and Catherine serve as the standard bearers of a mannerly and Manichaean age: a poster couple invented to persuade 21st-century readers of the way things once were and, presumably, still ought to be, reanimating a bygone era when men were men, women were ladies, wars were against Nazis, and even cowboys and their partners danced cheek to cheek.
As the historical record reflects, this halcyon period did not last. The decade that followed the glory years of ''In Sunlight and in Shadow'' would see the advent of Buddy Holly and Elvis (who dispersed the big-band stardust with floor-stomping rockabilly and swiveling hips) and the emergence of a new enemy (in Southeast Asia, not the Ardennes) who damnably lacked either an ear for Mozart or an eye for Gothic architecture. In reactionary terms, the world went to hell. But in the prolonged cinematic moment resuscitated in this novel, Helprin regilds the frame around an idealized portrait of how society looked, in Curtiz and Capra films, at least, before the essential and ineffable turned mutable and digital. It's a pity this novel is being published in the autumn rather than the summer; it would have made superb reading for the vacationing 1 percent in August. That said, it will come in handy for anyone of a backward-looking temperament who sits by the fire come January, when the blizzards descend.
This précis serves, to an extent, as a reproof of what one loves. Which of us doesn't pine for romance, fairness, virtue and bravery? Rich satisfactions come from savoring the archetypes Helprin varnishes here; and, as one character dreamily says in Woody Allen's ''Purple Rose of Cairo'' after a handsome leading man pops out of a movie screen and into her life, ''He's fictional, but you can't have everything.'' Helprin's heroes seem to crave similar indulgence. Throughout the novel, he splashes down paeans to virtue and beauty you'd have to be heartless not to enjoy, but mires them in sloughs of homily at which you'd have to be brainless not to bristle. That said, it's altogether possible that male readers who long for works of fiction (scarce of late) that provide paragons of masculine excellence will find pleasure in this Boys' Own tale for grown-ups. As for female readers, it may be helpful to ponder the insight Harry shares with his beloved Catherine: ''Girls don't have what boys have, which is a goatlike capacity to bang with the head against heavy objects that will not move.''
If this is so, ''boys'' may be more apt than girls to savor the repeat impact of Harry's floodgate cargo, bearing the news that ''the whole world is nothing more than what you remember and what you love, things fleeting and indefensible, light and beautiful, that were not supposed to last, echoing forever.'' Then again, the female characters come out remarkably well, despite the machismo and exploding shells. Helprin invests nearly every woman in the novel with charm, virtue and desirability -- even when she's disfigured by war; scarred with acne; or old, poor or downtrodden. When Catherine accuses Harry of flattery, he stubbornly persists in his conviction that ''a woman is the spur and essence of existence.'' When she asks if his attitudes are antiquated, he chides her: ''Women are the embodiment of love and the hope of all time.'' It's certainly pretty to think so. (At least, it is if the person who's doing the chiding looks like Clark Gable.) Yet, somehow, these fine sentiments and throwback characters belong to celluloid, not paper.
Thirty years ago, in his rollicking breakthrough novel, ''Winter's Tale,'' Helprin thrilled more than he maddened, in part because that book was more thoroughly a work of fantasy. Anchored at the dawn of the 20th century in a brawny, lawless, magical Manhattan inhabited by flying horses, roving Irish gangs, lascivious guttersnipes, clam-digging marsh dwellers and consumptive damsels on rooftops, its apostrophes to wonderment came off as organic. In that book, a storm-bright Manhattan sky might naturally prompt a character to remark, ''In those rare times when all things coalesce to serve beauty, symmetry and justice, it becomes the color of gold -- warm and smiling, as if God were reminded of the perfection and complexity of what He had long ago set to spinning, and long ago forgotten.''
Passages of similar beauty and unchecked grandiloquence abound in this new novel, but their purple glitter contrasts jarringly with the olive-drab of war and the wan aisles of Woolworth's. When Harry looks down on Manhattan from a height across the Hudson River, he thinks to himself, ''All he had to do was close his eyes and breathe deeply, and the past would glide forward like a warm breeze -- plumes of smoke silvered in the sun, ferries sliding gracefully to land, their decks crowded with souls long gone but somehow still there as if nothing were lost or ever would be.'' Reading that mellifluous sentence, you know better than to drive to Weehawken and look for yourself. To see what Harry saw, you'd need the author's romance-colored glasses.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RODRIGO CORRAL AND ADLY ELEWA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); RELIGION (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); MUSIC (76%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); WORLD WAR II (68%); FERRIES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



275 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: Power Shifts

BYLINE: By ANNE-MARIE SLAUGHTER. 
Anne-Marie Slaughter, a professor of politics and international affairs at Princeton, was director of policy planning at the State Department from 2009 to 2011.

 BODY:
THE REVENGE OF GEOGRAPHYWhat the Map Tells Us About Coming Conflicts and the Battle Against Fate
By Robert D. KaplanIllustrated. 403 pp. Random House. $28.
Those who forget geography can never defeat it. That is the mantra of Robert D. Kaplan's new book, ''The Revenge of Geography: What the Map Tells Us About Coming Conflicts and the Battle Against Fate.''Each chapter begins with a reading of the lineaments of territory in the way a fortuneteller reads the lines on a palm, a mapping of mountains, rivers and plains as determinants of destiny. But just as the text starts to teeter under the weight of geographical determinism, Kaplan quickly shifts ground, arguing for ''the partial determinism we all need'' (italics in the original). He retreats to the far more moderate view that geography is an indispensable ''backdrop'' to the human drama of ideas, will and chance.
Kaplan, a correspondent for The Atlantic and a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, resurrects 19th- and early-20th-century thinkers like Halford J. Mackinder, whose 1904 article ''The Geographical Pivot of History'' argued that control of the Eurasian ''Heartland'' would determine the fate of empires. Similarly, other contemporaneous strategists like Alfred Thayer Mahan and Nicholas J. Spykman may have favored sea power over land power, but they still described world history in terms of the eternal clash between the two (Sparta versus Athens, Venice versus Prussia). Spykman also answered Mackinder's Heartland obsession with a focus on European, Indian and Pacific ''Rimlands.''
Most of what these authors proposed would sound politically incorrect today -- imperialist and racist. Mackinder's theories were appropriated (misappropriated, according to Kaplan) by the Nazis. Still, these geostrategists saw past the ritualized etiquette of diplomacy and the embedded expectations of law to the stark and enduring struggle for survival -- tribe against tribe, invaders against inhabitants. Their strength lies in their appreciation of the ways in which the fixed elements of geography and climate shaped the more variable element of human choice -- the story Jared Diamond tells today in his classic ''Guns, Germs, and Steel.''
Perhaps the best test of their value is the quality of Kaplan's own geopolitical analysis in their wake. He applies his geography-first approach to different regions of the world, yielding a number of predictions that upend conventional wisdom. On Europe, he sees -- accurately, in my view -- that the Mediterranean will once again ''become a connector,'' linking southern Europe and northern Africa as it did in the ancient world, rather than continuing to be the dividing line between former imperial powers and their former colonies. The lands of olive and vine are likely once again to become an economic and cultural community, powered perhaps by the enormous reserves of natural gas and oil under the northern and eastern Mediterranean seabed. More generally, the sheer demographic and economic size of the European Union, notwithstanding gloomy projections on both counts, leads Kaplan to conclude that it ''will remain one of the world's great postindustrial hubs.'' The shift from Brussels to Berlin as the center of gravity for European politics will thus have global implications.
Moving east, Kaplan renders a verdict on Russia that again undercuts the determinism of his title. Vladimir Putin and Dmitri Medvedev, he writes, ''have had no uplifting ideas to offer, no ideology of any kind, in fact: what they do have in their favor is only geography. And that is not enough.'' That same geography ''commands a perennially tense relationship between Russia and China,'' even as a shared commitment to authoritarian government and sovereign prerogatives pushes their regimes together.
In the Middle East and Southwest Asia, Kaplan's geographic lens uncovers an unexpected similarity between Iran and Saudi Arabia. He describes them both as loose aggregations of tribes, peoples, and lands -- centers that often cannot hold their far-flung dominions together. Saudi history is a seesaw back and forth between the Wahhabi ''heartland of Najd'' and ''the peripheries of the Arabian Peninsula.'' And Iran ''has often been less a state than an amorphous, multinational empire.'' The suffix ''istan'' is Persian for ''place,'' meaning that the ''stans'' of Central Asia -- Pakistan, Afghanistan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and the rest -- reflect a map drawn in Tehran.
Moving away from the heartland, it is in the Western Hemisphere that Kaplan's framework yields the most surprising results -- an unusual amalgam of Samuel Huntington and Fernand Braudel: ''America, I believe, will actually emerge in the course of the 21st century as a Polynesian-cum-mestizo civilization, oriented from north to south, from Canada to Mexico, rather than as an east to west, racially lighter-skinned island in the temperate zone stretching from the Atlantic to the Pacific.'' He is right to concentrate on the intersection of demographics and hemispheric geography, but the pressure for greater hemispheric integration is as likely to come from economic competition with Asia and Europe as from demography. And indeed, Kaplan himself concedes part of the point: he sees a world in which an ''organic and united Eurasia'' will demand an ''organic and united North America'' as a ''balancer.''
This geographic tour of the world rests on a very 19th-century concept of what a map is.Kaplan defines it as ''the spatial representation of humanity's divisions,'' by which he means not just a representation of physical territory, but of topography. He sees the world as a relief map, one defined by the sharp peaks and narrow valleys that trap populations and the open plains and broad waterways that impel and allow them to move. His emphasis on humanity's ''divisions'' is telling, leading directly to his embrace of realism in foreign policy. Kaplan assumes that humankind is in essence divided rather than connected, even though an objective view of the landscape would allow for either. His geopolitical outlook is reinforced by his reliance on the Thucydidean trilogy of ''fear, self-interest and honor'' as basic human motivations -- a take on human nature that is both old-fashioned (at least in the era of neuroscience and cognitive psychology) and very male.
Besides, why is the true map a map of land rather than of people? Social media and mass data flows of all kinds now give us the ability to see and represent human interactions as never before, mapping emotions, desires, aspirations and connections. The intersection of millions of small worlds can now be tracked and visualized: human galaxies every bit as dense and complex as the stars above. The program Google Flu Trends allows us to map disease outbreaks by tracking when and where incipient sufferers enter a search for flu symptoms. Financial transactions can be mapped through banks; in the coming age of mobile money, they will be mappable through GPS and cellphones.
The result will be a new discipline of sociography. Kaplan himself describes the less-developed megacities of the 21st century as vast citadels of solitary striving, creating a ''new urban geography . . . of intense, personal longing.'' This section is tantalizing but all too brief, particularly since the maps of that longing will soon be as detailed as the depictions of the cities themselves.
At the same time, we will increasingly understand just how subjective our physical maps are. Google Earth and Google Maps make it possible for people to become their own cartographers, literally putting themselves on the map. Kaplan may argue that the brightly colored patches of sovereign territory on a two-dimensional map obscure Nature's primordial blueprint, but citizens now have incentives to obscure the lines of their governments with the demarcations of their own communities, imagined and real.
In the end, the revenge of geography will be the revenge of human as well as physical geography: a world much more, and much more democratically, of our making.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MOMA DESIGN STUDIO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); GEOGRAPHY (90%); HISTORY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); WRITERS (77%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (90%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



276 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2275 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: Using Race in Admissions

 BODY:
How should the Supreme Court rule on affirmative action?
To the Editor:
The Supreme Court will hear arguments this month in a case with the potential to end the use of race as a factor in college admissions (Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin). Conservatives are eager for a sweeping ruling accomplishing just that. But their zeal betrays longstanding conservative values about states' rights and the role of the courts. And the country is not exactly clamoring for the change they seek.
There are good reasons for the court to sidestep this opportunity to act boldly, reasons that conservatives would trumpet in other contexts. An affirmative-action challenge at the federal level tramples on conservative legal principles like respect for state sovereignty and local governance, as well as judicial restraint in tinkering with democratically enacted policies.
Indeed, rushing to the Supreme Court is not always the wisest method for effecting legal change. Seeking a ruling from the court with nationwide effect neglects the state-by-state evolution on affirmative action. Seven states have barred their public colleges from using it, and affirmative-action bans are regularly on the ballot in other states. States are making their own decisions at their own paces, and there are risks to leapfrogging them.
The Supreme Court's experience with fraught social issues demonstrates the virtue of the court's waiting to have the last word. Roe v. Wade, which invalidated 46 state abortion laws all at once, is an oft-cited example of the court's moving too far too fast. That decision spawned a backlash that has rived national politics ever since. In contrast, the court did not recognize a right to interracial marriage until 1967, when just 16 states had laws against it and public opinion was mostly settled in support.
Same-sex marriage advocates have carefully weighed the lessons of those cases and others to decide how aggressively to push their litigation agenda. Opponents of affirmative action, especially those on the Supreme Court, ought to do the same.
ADAM D. CHANDLER Burlington, N.C., Oct. 1, 2012
The writer is a 2011 graduate of Yale Law School. He was a law clerk to Judge Patrick Higginbotham, who wrote the affirmative action decision being reviewed by the Supreme Court, but his clerkship began after the opinion was issued.
Readers React
The assumptions underlying Mr. Chandler's arguments are troubling to advocates for social equality and social justice. While a state-by-state approach to social reform has sometimes proven to be an effective strategy, what Mr. Chandler refers to as ''respect for state sovereignty and local governance'' has more often produced glaring inequities in our nation -- not only in the distribution of political and social rights to racial, ethnic, religious and sexual minorities and women, but also in the distribution of social benefits, such as public assistance, education and health care.
If we are truly to become a democratic society, with liberty and justice for all, we cannot have 50 different definitions of what either democracy or justice means. The proper forum for the deliberation of controversial measures such as affirmative action, therefore, must be at the national level. While states may be better situated to determine how policies should be implemented, solutions to problems that are national in scope cannot be resolved on a state-by-state basis.
MICHAEL REISCH Baltimore, Oct. 3, 2012
The writer is a professor of social justice at the University of Maryland School of Social Work.
The Supreme Court should, in Fisher v. the University of Texas, reaffirm the constitutionality of the university's use of race and ethnicity as just one of many ''plus factors'' in admissions. As the leaders of colleges and universities, we know firsthand that the educational benefits that flow from a diverse student body are crucial for our graduates.
Life-changing moments happen when students interact with classmates who do not have the same experiences or perspectives. Education in a vibrant and diverse environment will better prepare our graduates for our increasingly globalized economy. Businesses grow stronger by building diverse work forces, and our colleges and universities need the same freedom to nurture the kind of innovative thinkers who will be our future leaders.
In an amicus brief we filed earlier this year in support of the University of Texas, we concluded: ''This court should affirm the Court of Appeals, reaffirm Grutter, and protect colleges' and universities' freedom to pursue their respective missions.'' I would only add that it would be detrimental to our economy and our society at large if the court does not.
MOLLY CORBETT BROAD President American Council on Education Washington, Oct. 3, 2012
First, we should dispense with the euphemistic term ''affirmative action'' and replace it with an accurate description, such as ''race preference.''
Second, the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment was enacted to prevent states from exercising their sovereignty in a racially discriminatory manner. I rather doubt that any left-wing advocates of deferring to the states on this subject hold the same view vis-à-vis the Voting Rights Act.
The Constitution removes certain subjects from the scope of legitimate public policy, officially sanctioned race discrimination being among them. Governmental favoritism to members of any race is simply beyond the pale.
''Affirmative action'' represents a governmental thumb on the scale of justice, preferring members of one race over members of another. Every such decision creates a living victim of racial discrimination, denied a benefit based solely upon skin color. Such is simply intolerable. To quote Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., ''The way to stop discrimination on the basis of race is to stop discriminating on the basis of race.''
The Constitution demands nothing less.
MICHAEL PATRICK CARROLL Morris Township, N.J., Oct. 3, 2012
The writer is a Republican assemblyman representing the 25th Legislative District in New Jersey.
My Harvard Law School graduating class of 1965 had 500 students, but only one black student. During law school I worked part time in the admissions office and was privy to several experiments in affirmative action. At the time, I considered those efforts to be unfair to those who were not admitted because of affirmative action.
But in 1966 I was named director of admissions at Harvard Law School and enthusiastically pursued affirmative action. By 1970, minority students constituted about 10 percent of our entering classes. They graduated and contributed in many ways to the improvement of our legal system.
What changed my mind about the fairness issue? First of all, many minority students couldn't get into any accredited law school. Because Harvard admitted a reasonable number, many other law schools decided to, and the number of minority students in American law schools increased dramatically.
For me, the best argument for affirmative action was the footrace analogy. If one group of runners is forced to carry 20-pound weights that the other runners don't have to carry, telling them they can take off their weights in the middle of the race does not make the race fair.
Everyone has different ideas about atoning for past discriminatory practices. The Supreme Court ought to let the issue of affirmative action play out over time in a natural way that takes into account all the feelings people have. We all hope that, at some point in the future, affirmative action will become unnecessary.
RUSSELL A. SIMPSON Arlington, Mass., Oct. 3, 2012
We should not lose sight of the historical dimension of the diversity policy that is now before the Supreme Court in Fisher v. University of Texas. In 1950, the Supreme Court directed the University of Texas School of Law to admit Heman Sweatt, an African-American who had been excluded from the campus by state law. After long resisting racial inclusion, the University of Texas has now adopted an admissions policy that opens up its campus to African-Americans and Latinos and, in so doing, expands educational opportunity.
Diversity matters because it enriches the educational environment on university campuses and helps to prepare our country's institutional leaders; it creates a unique space for cross-racial interaction in a society that is still very much divided by race. These interactions help us to transcend our racial differences and to defeat stereotypes.
Although the pressing need for diversity is shaped by our past, it is the surest path for the nation's future.
ELISE C. BODDIE Director of Litigation NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund New York, Oct. 4, 2012
Mr. Chandler seems to assume that only conservatives are hoping for an end to affirmative action programs. It seems to me, however, that anyone wanting real racial equality should stand against these policies as well. Affirmative action is at best a superficial, Band-Aid solution; we need to realize that centuries of racial discrimination cannot be undone by letting a few extra black students into college.
The only serious cure for our nation's festering racial inequalities is a broad assault on poverty, an end to predatory military recruitment practices, a revitalization of our inner-city schools, a cease-fire in the drug war -- you get the picture.
But these solutions are, of course, politically inconvenient. They require serious investment and considerable change. So, instead, we turn to affirmative action programs and other quick, ineffective fixes. It becomes easy to forget that they benefit only a small minority: the uneasy consciences of a few white folks.
ZACHARY MILLER Fleetwood, Pa., Oct. 3, 2012
At a time when students of color remain tragically underrepresented in our colleges and universities and when the disparity of wealth among Americans has reached unconscionable levels, educators must be afforded every opportunity to create learning environments that reflect the extraordinary and invaluable diversity of our great nation. No society can effectively address endemic, institutionalized and often unconscious racism without the use of race-conscious remedies. I hope that the court will not enter a ''sweeping ruling'' that undoes whatever progress has been made.
Mr. Chandler's reference to the abortion and same-sex marriage battles, as part of his plea for patience and deference to the majority's will, seems misplaced. In matters involving those fundamental rights, the courts should be acting ''ahead of the curve,'' that is, putting constitutional principles ahead of the prevailing, popular sentiments at a particular time in history.
Abigail Fisher's claim to victimhood on the basis of her whiteness is hardly a civil rights issue that merits the court's intervention.
MICHAEL M. ROOKE-LEY Eugene, Ore., Oct. 3, 2012
The writer is emeritus professor of law and past president of the Society of American Law Teachers.
I'm a 19-year-old sophomore studying chemistry at the University of Texas. The Supreme Court is about to decide whether the admissions policy here is constitutional.
I grew up in Tyler, Tex. The University of Texas guarantees admission to students in the top 10 percent of their high school class. As the sixth-best student in a class of 45, I just missed out. So my application was reviewed through the individualized process that the university uses to fill the remaining spots.
Admissions officials consider your total accomplishments -- and what you overcame to achieve them. They consider leadership, extracurricular activities, community service, race, socioeconomic status and language barriers. In my case I was a member of the debate team and student government, played five sports, won medals in statewide track competitions and received academic honors. I'm also African-American.
Some people think it would be O.K. for the university to consider everything else about a person except her race. I don't understand that. We're each the sum total of everything that has shaped us. Our diversity makes us strong.
JENNIFER RENEE JOHNSON Austin, Tex., Oct. 4, 2012
The Writer Responds
No one hopes that affirmative action will last forever. Opponents wish it had never started and want it to end swiftly. Supporters also want it to end, but only eventually, through the natural obsolescence that Mr. Simpson describes.
This agreement on ends led me to raise a question about means: Who should take the lead in deciding when affirmative action's time is up? As the Supreme Court readies for action, that question comes with high stakes.
Mr. Carroll would welcome a constitutional ruling from the court that eliminates affirmative action programs nationwide. Mr. Simpson, however, hopes the Supreme Court will remain on the sidelines and allow the issue to keep developing. I focused on such development through a state-level lens, but Ms. Broad zooms in further, arguing that decisions about affirmative action should be left to individual universities.
Whatever we think, the Supreme Court gets to decide for itself whether to be a bit player or a lead actor in the affirmative-action drama.
Even if a majority of the justices conclude that the University of Texas's affirmative action program is unconstitutional, as many court watchers expect, there are still decisions to be made. The majority could limit its rationale to Texas's unique circumstances, or it could write broadly enough to encompass virtually all American colleges, public and private.
The justices control the gas pedal. We must hope that they only gun it when they know what's ahead.
ADAM CHANDLER Burlington, N.C., Oct. 5, 2012

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BRIAN REA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (93%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); WRITERS (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); POLITICS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (73%); LITIGATION (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (67%); ABORTION (64%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (63%); MARRIAGE (63%); RACE & RACISM (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



277 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2047 words

HEADLINE: Trial by Rental

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE ROSENBLUM

 BODY:
JUDITH AND SCOTT FROST lived with their two young daughters in an apartment on West 86th Street, its 1,100 square feet festooned with decorative molding and topped by high ceilings. Mr. Frost works in finance, and Ms. Frost runs an Upper West Side organization called Little Global Village where small children can learn a foreign language. Both loved the pace of urban life. But as with many families, the prospect of an additional child altered the picture.
''When I became pregnant with our third child, that sort of pushed us over the edge,'' said Ms. Frost, who is 36. ''All of a sudden I wanted to be able to open a back door and get the girls outside.''
The Frosts began house-hunting in the Riverdale section of the Bronx but were dismayed by the size of the taxes. They liked Bronxville, N.Y., but the inventory was minuscule. So they decided to do something that is not so common among New Yorkers moving to the suburbs. Instead of buying a house, they stuck a toe in suburban waters by renting one.
The desire to test-drive the suburbs by renting is understandable. For most families, buying a house is the largest investment they will ever make. In a time of economic uncertainty, with employment continuing to sputter and many people not convinced that the recession is over, the decision looms especially large. The temptation to go slow is powerful.
''Given the dismaying economic news over the past few years, people are afraid,'' said Roberta Baldwin, a partner in Keller Williams Realty who recently had five houses for rent in Montclair, N.J., and now has one. ''This is the biggest purchase they'll ever make, and for many people it's too daunting until they've immersed themselves in the fabric of a place.''
Another economic factor is at work. ''Prior to 2008,'' Ms. Baldwin said, ''people felt they had to grab a place because the competition was so great. But now that prices are still flat or rising modestly, people feel they can take time to look around.'' Because home prices are not escalating quickly, some owners choose to rent out a house they can't easily sell. Thus houses that might not otherwise be up for rent are available. In addition, many would-be suburbanites are increasingly choosy. ''There's a new group of buyers, Gen X and Gen Y,'' Ms. Baldwin said. ''They're used to living well, and they don't want to make an architectural or a geographical mistake. They feel they're entitled. And so they're stepping tentatively.''
Happily for this population, suburban rents tend to be the same or lower than in the city. Even taking into account property taxes, the money and psychic energy that families save when it comes to schooling are considerable. And the stigma that once attached to suburban families who rent rather than own seems to have largely disappeared.
Families preparing to make the big leap to the suburbs want to make sure they will land in the right place, or as Ms. Frost summed it up: ''We weren't comfortable making such a large investment before we really knew a neighborhood. Before paying out a huge amount of money, we wanted to make sure a town was a good fit.''
In May the Frosts signed a lease for a white clapboard colonial in Scarsdale, N.Y., with dark-blue shutters, three bedrooms, and front and backyards. They're paying market rate, which according to their broker, Marilyn Krizansky of Houlihan Lawrence, is about $4,000 a month, significantly less than their rent in Manhattan. The commute to Midtown on the express train is just 30 minutes, and the couple have found their corner of town immensely congenial.
''When we arrived, we barely knew our neighbors,'' said Ms. Frost, whose baby is due this month, ''but they came over with baked goods and housewarming gifts. And we love the vibe. We like that not everyone in our neighborhood is wearing tennis whites.'' All in all, she added, ''it's a great transition for people who aren't ready to let go of the city.''
Finding the Right Fit
For suburban newbies, a town's personality is key. While vast amounts of information about everything from taxes to school test scores are available online, to get a sense of subtle but critical factors that determine a town's true nature, some say there's no substitute for sinking a few roots. Renting gives you time to see how people dress, observe their habits and eavesdrop on their conversations.
''The car line where parents drop their children off at school tells you a lot,'' said Esther Davidowitz, editor in chief of a cluster of magazines about Westchester County. ''If you're the only Toyota in a line of Mercedes, maybe it's not exactly your town. If the moms are wearing makeup at 8 in the morning and you're in your pj's and T-shirt, that's a bit of a hint, too.''
Other factors determine a town's feel, according to Alison Bernstein, the founder of Suburban Jungle Realty Group, an agency that deals solely with suburb-bound New Yorkers. ''For example,'' Ms. Bernstein said, ''in summer, does the town empty out because everyone goes to the Hamptons? Is it a country-club town, or do people barbecue in their backyard? It may sound ridiculous, but these things are part of everyday life.''
Once in a great while, a family will test-drive the suburbs, then decide that they miss urban life more than they expected and head back to the city. ''But that's very rare,'' said Ms. Baldwin, the broker from New Jersey. ''I'd say 99 percent of people who start out by renting in the suburbs want to make it permanent.''
Taking the City Along
The fit between a family and a community was a key issue for Brian Leftwich and Kara Payne-Leftwich, a couple in their mid-30s who lived in a 1,100-square-foot apartment near the South Street Seaport. Mr. Leftwich owns a firm that does fund-raising and business development for hedge funds, and Ms. Payne-Leftwich worked as an actress and a teacher until the birth of their first child.
Last week the couple, with their daughter, 3, and their son, 6 months, moved to a 3,600-square-foot house in Montclair, for which they have a 19-month lease. The 1897 house is rich in original details, among them hand-woven wall coverings and moldings that remind Ms. Payne-Leftwich of her grandmother's house near Rochester. The yard has such a lovely slope, Ms. Payne-Leftwich can already picture her children sledding down it come winter.
Along with a manageable commute and room for a home office for Mr. Leftwich, a key issue in choosing a community was its diversity. ''We liked the diversity of the city,'' Ms. Payne-Leftwich said, ''and we wanted our children exposed to people of different backgrounds.''
Economics played a major role in the decision to start out as renters. ''Buying is such a big commitment, so permanent,'' said Mr. Leftwich, who hasn't lived in a suburb since he was growing up outside Washington. ''We wanted to move, but we didn't want to make a blind move. This way, if we didn't like it, we weren't stuck.''
For Ms. Payne-Leftwich, the issues were more emotional. ''I held onto the notion that we'd live in New York,'' she said. ''We've grown accustomed to this lifestyle, and Montclair feels far away. I know some people who moved to the suburbs and then returned to the city. So we figured, let's not make that commitment until we're sure.''
She still has mixed feelings, as she indicated a few weeks ago: ''Sometimes I tear up just buying bananas from the street vendor near the corner, because I know I'll miss that experience. At the same time, the apartment is so cluttered, I'm excited to be moving somewhere new.''
A Different Culture
For confirmed urbanites like Jennifer and Alistair Macpherson, Londoners in their early 30s who had spent four years in Upper West Side high-rises, taking baby steps into suburban life felt especially appealing.
''We were passionately in love with the Upper West Side,'' said Ms. Macpherson, who, like her husband, is an actuary. ''We weren't passionate to leave.''
But the couple had a son, Aidan, now 3, and when their second one, Dylan, was born last October, they began looking at houses in Westchester County, which they selected because of the easy commute to Mr. Macpherson's office opposite Grand Central Terminal.
''After looking at 15 houses, however, we realized that we didn't know the area well enough to make a permanent decision,'' Ms. Macpherson said. The quiet of the suburbs also made the couple slightly uneasy. And so in April they rented a 1924 three-bedroom in Scarsdale, for which they pay $3,400 a month. For Mr. Macpherson, the commute is almost as quick as it was when they lived in Manhattan.
''We were city people for 15 years,'' Ms. Macpherson said, ''and I'm still getting used to the change from a walking culture to a driving culture. But we're now set on the suburbs, and we're definitely ready to buy.''
Ready for a Change
Not everyone who test-drives the suburbs by renting is motivated by an expanding family. Lilia Vassileva, 29, an actress, and her husband, Steven Eheart, 30, the operations manager at the Atlantic Theater Company in Chelsea, had never felt at home in the city.
''We lived in Manhattan for two years because everyone said it would be such a great place,'' Ms. Vassileva said. ''But we weren't happy there.'' One memorably awful apartment faced brick walls. ''We moved several times,'' she said. ''But we didn't find peace.''
Last March, almost on a whim, the couple drove to Westchester and contacted a real estate agent. In July they signed a two-year lease for a cream-colored stucco four-bedroom in Yonkers. The couple declined to say how much they were paying. But similar properties nearby rent for $3,000 to $5,000 a month, according to their broker, Rose Carmellino of Houlihan Lawrence.
''Given our experience in Manhattan, we didn't feel settled enough to buy,'' Ms. Vassileva said. ''We didn't want suburban life, but New York City hadn't worked for us.''
Even now, the couple aren't sure if the suburbs are right for them. ''But if we stay in the area,'' Mr. Eheart said, ''we'd definitely buy. We've already started looking a bit.''
Waiting for a Match
On occasion, the town where a family rents is a poor fit, which is why some bounce around from place to place. But if the initial match works well, a family might begin looking for something to buy weeks after signing the lease.
This was the experience of Amber and Jonathan Tucker, both 34, who started out in the West Village. When their first daughter, born in 2007, was small, the family's life seemed to work beautifully, even in a 450-square-foot space with a crib in the living room. ''But when she turned 1,'' Ms. Tucker said, ''I began thinking to myself, 'Oh, my God, this is awful!' And when I got pregnant again, we decided it was time to look for an exit strategy.''
Every weekend the Tuckers checked out a different suburb. Only when they discovered Rowayton, a village of 4,500 in Norwalk along the Connecticut shore, did the pieces fall into place. ''We'd stop for lunch and people would come up and talk to us,'' Ms. Tucker said. ''Instinctively, we knew this was it.
''But we wanted to be 100 percent sure,'' she said. So in the summer of 2009, they found a furnished three-bedroom rental atop a brown shingle ranch house for $4,000 a month. The property included a garden, a koi pond and a deck with a hot tub.
''In the beginning,'' Ms. Tucker said, ''the house felt really overwhelming. We'd never had a washing machine or even a dishwasher. The whole experience was very humbling.''
Still, the town seemed great. ''Everyone had the same story,'' Ms. Tucker said. ''Everyone was like us.''
She was also impressed by the down-home vibe, by the C.E.O. who walked to the train station in sneakers, by the mother who took her daughter on the train to day care in the city, and the sight of people mowing their own lawns.
The Tuckers liked Rowayton so much that less than a year later they bought a 1,500-square-foot saltbox with yellow shingles on a tree-lined cul-de-sac for $585,000, then spent $400,000 for a gut renovation that added a wing. In August 2010, they moved in with their daughters, now 5 and 3. Five months ago, they had a son.
''We have a 2,600-square-foot house that looks brand-new and cost under $1 million,'' Ms. Tucker said. ''I chalk it all up to the fact that we rented before we bought.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TEST RUN: Alistair Macpherson with Dylan, 11 months, and Aidan, 3, in a rental in Scarsdale, N.Y. Top, Jennifer Macpherson joins her family outside. They started out as buyers but, Ms. Macpherson said, found they ''didn't know the area well enough to make a permanent decision.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE1)
HMMM: Judith and Scott Frost with Constance, left, and Georgia in Scarsdale, where they are experimenting with suburban living after leaving the West Side.
MAYBE: Lilia Vassileva and Steven Eheart are giving Yonkers a two-year trial. ''We didn't want suburban life,'' she says, ''but New York City hadn't worked for us.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
PERHAPS: Brian Leftwich and Kara Payne-Leftwich moved to a Montclair rental with Sam, left, and Eli. ''This way, if we didn't like it, we weren't stuck,'' Mr. Leftwich says. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUAN ARREDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
YOU'RE ON: Jonathan and Amber Tucker bought a house in Rowayton, Conn., after a rental test of the town. Their children are, from left, Jagger, Isla and Avery. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW SULLIVAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MY OWN PARK: Aidan Macpherson, formerly of the Upper West Side, waters his tomato plants in Scarsdale. Below left, Mr. Leftwich and Sam explore their new yard in Montclair, a departure from their old home near the South Street Seaport. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JUAN ARREDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); FAMILY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RECESSION (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); CHILDREN (72%); SUBURBS (72%); CITY LIFE (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



278 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: Paperback Nonfiction: Sunday, October 07th 2012

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the October 07, 2012 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending September 22, 2012. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers.
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: Paperback NonfictionThisOnWeekList181THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS, by Rebecca Skloot. (Broadway, $16.) A woman&#8217;s cancer cells were cultured without her permission in 1951. 297HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson, $16.99.) A boy&#8217;s encounter with Jesus and the angels. 3289THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Scribner, $16.) The author recalls her bizarre childhood. &#8224;4*1CATHERINE THE GREAT, by Robert K. Massie. (Random House, $20.) The life of the minor 18th-century German princess who became Empress of All the Russias. 521IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Broadway, $16.) William E. Dodd, the United States ambassador to Germany, and his daughter, Martha, in 1930s Berlin. 668OUTLIERS, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $16.99.) Why some people succeed &#8212; it has to do with luck and opportunities as well as talent. 73BOOMERANG, by Michael Lewis. (Norton, $16.95.) A look at some of the places hardest hit by the financial collapse of 2008. 838BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $15.99.) The &#8220;30&#160;Rock&#8221; creator&#8217;s memoir. 9*3THE SWERVE, by Stephen Greenblatt. (Norton, $16.95.) A Renaissance book hunter rediscovered Lucretius&#8217; classic &#8220;On the Nature of Things&#8221; and kept it from disappearing. 101BILLIONAIRES AND BALLOT BANDITS, by Greg Palast. Illustrated by Ted Rall. (Seven Stories, $14.95.) An investigation into the workings of big money and vote manipulation in politics. 113KISSES FROM KATIE, by Katie Davis with Beth Clark. (Howard, $15.99.) A young woman gives up everything she knows to care for Ugandans. 12*10HOW TO BE A WOMAN, by Caitlin Moran. (Harper Perennial, $15.99.) An approach to feminism that&#39;s part memoir, part polemic. 131IS EVERYONE HANGING OUT WITHOUT ME?, by Mindy Kaling. (Three Rivers, $14.) The comedian and actress from &#34;The Office&#34; offers essays about her life. 14235THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, by Erik Larson. (Vintage, $15.95.) A story of how an architect and a serial killer were linked by the World&#8217;s Fair of 1893. 153ARGUABLY, by Christopher Hitchens. (Twelve, $18.) From Hitchens, a collection of essays bearing &#8220;the full consciousness that they might be my very last.&#8221; 1636THE NEW JIM CROW, by Michelle Alexander. (New Press, $19.95.) Taking aim at the &#8220;war on drugs&#8221; and its impact on black men. 1778BORN TO RUN, by Christopher McDougall. (Vintage, $15.95.) Secrets of distance running from a Mexican Indian tribe. 18*16MOONWALKING WITH EINSTEIN, by Joshua Foer. (Penguin, $16.) A journalist who covered a mnemonics championship tries competing himself. 19106FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Harper Perennial, $15.99.) How to apply economic theory to almost everything. 2062INSIDE OF A DOG, by Alexandra Horowitz. (Scribner, $16.) The world from a dog&#39;s point of view.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
21. A STOLEN LIFE, by Jaycee Dugard. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
22. THE ZOMBIE SURVIVAL GUIDE, by Max Brooks. (Three Rivers)
23. THE TIPPING POINT, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown)
24. THAT USED TO BE US, by Thomas L. Friedman and Michael Mandelbaum. (Picador/Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux)
25. LONE SURVIVOR, by Marcus Luttrell with Patrick Robinson. (Back Bay/Little, Brown)
26. BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown)
27. AMERITOPIA, by Mark R. Levin. (Threshold Editions)
28. THE EIGHTY-DOLLAR CHAMPION, by Elizabeth Letts. (Ballantine)
29. AN INVISIBLE THREAD, by Laura Schroff and Alex Tresniowski. (Howard)
30. THE OMNIVORE&#8217;S DILEMMA, by Michael Pollan. (Penguin)
31. INCOGNITO, by David Eagleman. (Vintage)
32. DRIVE, by Daniel H. Pink. (Riverhead)
33. CALL THE MIDWIFE, by Jennifer Worth. (Penguin)
34. 1493, by Charles C. Mann. (Vintage)
35. WHAT IT IS LIKE TO GO TO WAR, by Karl Marlantes. (Grove/Atlantic)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BESTSELLERS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); BOOK SALES (78%); WRITERS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); RETAILERS (73%); WOMEN (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (74%) GERMANY (86%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



279 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2503 words

HEADLINE: Republicans to Cities: Drop Dead

BYLINE: By KEVIN BAKER. 
The author of the ''City of Fire'' series of historical novels: ''Dreamland,'' ''Paradise Alley'' and ''Strivers Row.''

 BODY:
A LEADING Republican columnist, trying to re-stoke her candidate's faltering campaign before the first presidential debate, felt so desperate that she advised him to turn to cities.
''Wade into the crowd, wade into the fray, hold a hell of a rally in an American city -- don't they count anymore?'' Peggy Noonan lamented in The Wall Street Journal. ''A big, dense city with skyscrapers like canyons, crowds and placards, and yelling. All of our campaigning now is in bland suburbs and tired hustings.''
But the fact is that cities don't count anymore -- at least not in national Republican politics.
The very word ''city'' went all but unheard at the Republican convention, held in the rudimentary city of Tampa, Fla. The party platform ratified there is over 31,000 words long. It includes subsections on myriad pressing topics, like ''Restructuring the U.S. Postal Service for the Twenty-First Century'' and ''American Sovereignty in U.S. Courts,'' which features a full-throated denunciation of the ''unreasonable extension'' of the Lacey Act of 1900 (please don't ask). There are also passages specifying what our national policy should be all over the world -- but not in one American city. 
Actually, that's not quite true. Right after ''Honoring Our Relationship With American Indians'' and shortly before ''Honoring and Supporting Americans in the Territories,'' the Republican platform addresses another enclave of benighted quasi-citizens: the District of Columbia. Most of what it has to say is about forcing the district to accept school vouchers, lax gun laws and the fact that it will never be a state. It also scolds the district for corruption and ''decades of inept one-party rule.'' Only a city would get yelled at.
The very few sections that address urban concerns contain similar complaints about cities' current priorities -- not to mention the very idea of city life. The Republican platform bitterly denounces the Democrats for diverting some highway fund money to Amtrak and harrumphs that it is ''long past time for the federal government to get out of the way and allow private ventures to provide passenger service to the Northeast corridor. The same holds true with regard to high-speed and intercity rail across the country.''
The Obama administration, the Republicans conclude damningly, is ''replacing civil engineering with social engineering as it pursues an exclusively urban vision of dense housing and government transit.''
Unsurprisingly, the chairman of the Republican platform committee, Gov. Bob McDonnell of Virginia, is from a state that has no city with a population of 500,000 or more. One of his two ''co-chairmen'' was Senator John Hoeven of North Dakota, which ranks 47th among the states in population density. The other was Marsha Blackburn, who represents a largely suburban district of Tennessee.
IT could hardly be otherwise. The Republican Party is, more than ever before in its history, an anti-urban party, its support gleaned overwhelmingly from suburban and rural districts -- especially in presidential elections.
This wasn't always the case. During the heyday of the urban political machines, from the Civil War to the Great Depression, Republicans used to hold their own in our nation's great cities. Philadelphia was dominated for decades by a Republican machine. In Chicago -- naturally -- both parties had highly competitive, wildly corrupt machines, with a buffoonish Republican mayor, ''Big Bill'' Thompson, presiding over the city during the ascent of Al Capone. In the 1928 presidential election, the Republican Herbert Hoover swept to victory while carrying cities all across the country: Philadelphia; Pittsburgh; Chicago; Detroit; Atlanta; Birmingham, Ala.; Houston; Dallas; Omaha and Los Angeles.
With the possible exception of Houston or maybe Omaha, it's all but inconceivable that Mr. Romney will carry any of those cities. And that's due in good part to the man Hoover defeated, more than 80 years ago.
The rise of Alfred E. Smith to the top of the Democratic Party confirmed a sea change in American life. Smith was not simply the first Catholic to lead a major-party ticket. He was also a quintessentially urban candidate, like no one who has ever seriously contended for the presidency before or since.
Born in 1873 on Oliver Street, on the edge of Manhattan's Chinatown, he was forced to leave school after the death of his father. He never went back, toiling at the Fulton Fish Market for $12 a week. Elected to the New York State Assembly by Tammany Hall's political machine, he worked his way up to speaker, then governor.
In Albany, Smith pushed through some of the most important social legislation in our history. Yet everything about him remained unacceptably ''ghetto'' to much of America: the way he dressed; the stogies he smoked in public; his heavy New York accent; and the way he enjoyed singing old Bowery tunes while enjoying a beer with the boys.
It was almost as if today a candidate from the projects -- a high-school dropout who still dressed in hip-hop fashion and liked to occasionally drop in to a club to D.J. for a couple of hours -- were to become a serious presidential candidate.
''To hundreds of thousands of old-stock Americans, Smith might just as well have been Jewish or black,'' the historian Lawrence H. Fuchs wrote. New York ''meant night life, short skirts, prostitution, Jewish intellectuals and the Union Theological Seminary.''
In an openly bigoted campaign, Smith was assailed in millions of coarse, anti-Catholic pamphlets and handbills; even a Methodist bishop viciously attacked his ''Romanism.'' He walked away from the race a bitter man and the cities went with him. By 1930, over 56 percent of all Americans already lived in urban areas.
The Great Depression secured their loyalty to the Democratic Party. Franklin Delano Roosevelt made the cities showcases for the New Deal -- especially New York, under the liberal Republican reformer, Fiorello H. La Guardia. Federal money poured in, but in the end the New Deal was about more than building new bridges or getting people off the bread lines. Contrary to Mr. Romney's contention that government aid automatically turns people into ''victims'' and ''dependents,'' Washington's intervention turned urban Americans from subjects into citizens who could claim the necessities of life as a right, not a favor.
In so doing, it began to shrivel the urban political machines, though it would take decades before they disappeared completely. The cities, which had been places of horrible suffering during the early years of the Great Depression, became alluring again, attracting a dynamic if volatile new mix of the rural poor, black, white and Hispanic. By 1950, almost two-thirds of all Americans lived in urban areas.
Save for mavericks like La Guardia, Republicans had little to add to this battle for the soul of the city. Increasingly, a Republican mayor of a major city became a curiosity. In presidential elections, big cities went Republican only during landslides.
This didn't seem to matter in the postwar years, as demographic trends began to shift sharply away from the city. Newly prosperous whites and eventually blacks pursued the American dream out to the suburbs. The urban industrial base left too.
FOR Republicans, cities now became object lessons on the shortcomings of activist government and the welfare state -- sinkholes of crime and social dysfunction, where Ronald Reagan's ''welfare queens'' cavorted in their Cadillacs. The very idea of the city seemed to be a thing of the past, an archaic concept -- so much so that Gerald R. Ford seriously considered letting New York go bankrupt in 1975.
This probably cost Ford the 1976 election -- much as Mr. Romney's opposition to ''saving Detroit'' may yet cost him this one, thanks to all the votes of auto-parts workers he stands to sacrifice in Ohio. Tragically, once-great cities like St. Louis or Newark never fully recovered from postwar deindustrialization. But urban living was far from dead. Instead, the American economy began to reinvent itself in cities, as they became cleaner, greener, safer, more prosperous, more fun. As the demographic wheel turned again, both new immigrants and a generation of Americans born and raised in the 'burbs moved back in.
Today, four-fifths of the population lives in an urban area -- the highest percentage in our history. Although the country remains largely suburban, one in 12 Americans lives in a city of over a million people. More than ever, they are stakeholders, owning where previous generations rented, creating their own jobs and opportunities. Traditional liberal bastions like the Upper West Side of Manhattan are now filled with the owners of co-ops and condominiums worth hundreds of thousands, even millions of dollars. Over 140,000 New Yorkers in all -- or nearly 4 percent of the labor force -- work out of their homes. The percentages are even higher in Los Angeles and Chicago. Most of these individuals are skilled, highly educated ''job creators'' for themselves and others -- the very demographic that Republicans claim to want to attract.
Some have managed it. The Upper West Side voted for the re-election of both the businessman Michael R. Bloomberg and the former prosecutor Rudolph W. Giuliani. Over the past 25 years, cities like Indianapolis, San Diego and even Los Angeles have elected -- and re-elected -- Republican mayors.
Yet the national Republican Party still can't get seem to get past its animus toward the very idea of urban life. The only place that Amtrak turns a profit is the Northeast corridor -- yet all Republicans can think to do is privatize it, along with the local rail lines on which millions of Americans have been commuting into cities to work for as long as a century and a half. Republicans promise to ban same-sex marriage, make it easier for anyone to get a gun, delegitimize and destroy what they mockingly call ''public employees' unions,'' and deport the immigrant workers performing so many thankless but vital tasks.
In short, they promise to rip and tear at the immensely complex fabric of city life while sneering at the entire ''urban vision of dense housing and government transit.'' There is a terrible arrogance here that has ramifications well beyond the Republicans' electoral prospects.
There wasn't so much as a mention of cities in the debate on domestic issues the presidential candidates had last week. Nor did the Democrats have much to say about cities at their convention in Charlotte, N.C. They didn't have to. Politically, Democrats don't have to say anything about the urban experience; they embody it. But in too many cities this allows them to keep running corrupt and mediocre candidates.
Mr. Giuliani and Mayor Bloomberg -- both Democrats turned Republicans -- saw their opportunity in displacing these tired party satraps. Between them, they embraced exactly the sort of ''Chinese menu'' variety of policy choices that Americans say they prefer. Between them, they backed tough law-enforcement tactics and strict gun laws, supported gay rights and major real-estate developments, opposed smoking in bars and a ''living wage.''
Other Republican mayors have scored similar successes around the country. Susan Golding, the second woman and first Jewish mayor of San Diego, was a pro-gay-rights, pro-affirmative-action executive who also built that city's first homeless shelter -- and cracked down on crime while creating ''one-stop shopping'' for new businesses seeking permits.
The dynasty of Republican mayors begun by Richard G. Lugar in Indianapolis had a prophetic champion in the Buffalo congressman Jack F. Kemp, who tried hard to provide Republicans with a potential urban agenda when he was secretary of housing and urban development under the first President Bush. Mr. Kemp insisted that the party denounce racism and pioneered urban ''enterprise zones'' -- there are over 800 of them today -- and even tried to extend the idea of the urban stakeholder movement to the residents of public housing projects by allowing them to buy their own homes.
''This is my way of redeeming my existence on earth,'' Mr. Kemp once told a group of reporters. ''I wasn't there with Rosa Parks or Dr. King or John Lewis, but I am here now, and I am going to yell from the rooftops about what we need to do.''
THE potential for change, should Republicans start shouting from the rooftops about cities, is enormous. Constituencies change parties -- and in America, parties change constituents, opening them up to the concerns of others, because of the need to form broad, national coalitions. A Republican Party seeking to actively win cities, not just vilify them or suppress their vote, could open the party up to all sorts of new immigrant voters, like Asian and Latino Americans -- and maybe even bring back part of an old voting bloc: black people.
At a moment when Republican Party's ''dog whistles'' are more racially pitched than ever, this may sound crazy. Yet one got the impression this election season, for instance, that Cory A. Booker, the mayor of Newark, would like some new place to turn. Mayor Booker has battled valiantly against the sclerotic, black political establishment in his own city as well as outside white indifference. A Mayor Booker who had someplace to go besides the Democratic Party with his city's votes would be immediately empowered as never before.
Republicans in turn could show on a very human level that they are more than the mere radio ranters who constitute so much of what urban voters get to hear of the right wing. They would have to vie for votes in a manner that reflects urban realities instead of fantastical theories. Imagine a serious, practical discussion of educational reform or mass transit, instead of more heavy-handed attempts to demonize teachers' unions or privatize the rails.
The prospects for any such change don't seem high right now. But that may change, too, out of necessity. The Republican refusal to contest the cities has left them in a permanently defensive stance in national campaigns. This can't continue. The courts have already struck down many voter suppression laws, and the party's 2008 presidential results read like an actuarial table, with Republicans increasing their percentage of the vote mainly in aging districts that are losing population. In the meantime, as urban areas continue to grow, they become more and more intertwined with what were once distant suburbs, making ''urban'' issues all the more pertinent to everyone.
The old antagonisms between cities and suburbs will give way to cooperation over everything from where to build the next airport to how to combine municipal services to how to spread the wealth cities generate. And for that matter, over half of all minorities in metropolitan areas -- including African-Americans -- do not live in the inner city but in surrounding suburbs.
Republicans may not want to go to the cities. But that doesn't much matter. The cities are coming to them.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE MCQUADE) (SR1)
From top: New York views of the Lower East Side, 1905
Times Square, 1944
subway graffiti, 1979
and the High Line park. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREAS FEININGER/TIME & LIFE PICTURES, GETTY IMAGES
HULTON ARCHIVE/GETTY IMAGES
NEAL BOENZI/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ROBERT WRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (SR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); NATIVE AMERICANS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (71%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (64%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (64%); CONSTRUCTION (62%); ENGINEERING (60%); POSTAL SERVICE (53%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (52%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2012



280 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Politics; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Bet on Shift In Hispanic Numbers To Win Arizona Race

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
TUCSON -- The man who could be the first Latino to represent Arizona in the Senate, Richard H. Carmona, says he is not fooling himself. ''I want to be realistic on the expectations,'' he said last week at his office.
Mr. Carmona, 62, is an untested candidate of vast experiences with a made-for-Hollywood biography. He was a high school dropout, born into poverty in New York City to Puerto Rican parents who struggled with alcoholism and drug abuse. He served in Vietnam, earning Bronze Stars, Purple Hearts and other combat decorations, and attended medical school before his eventual rise to surgeon general under President George W. Bush.
He is running for public office for the first time, challenging a six-term congressman, Jeff Flake, 49, a Republican. Both are vying for the seat held by another Republican, Senator Jon Kyl, who is retiring. Though there is little reliable polling in the contest, both camps acknowledged that the race is closer than they expected in such a heavily Republican state.
Beyond the balance of power in the Senate -- enough states are in play that Republicans could regain the majority -- the race carries enormous significance for Arizona, whose shifts in demographics threaten to upend its role as a Republican stronghold.
Mr. Carmona was handpicked by President Obama to run for the Senate because of his résumé and his ethnicity, which could help galvanize the state's Latino voters. The Democratic Party then cleared the field for him, sparing him primary attacks but depriving him of the chance to test his skills before the big fight.
Mr. Flake, in the meantime, waged a feisty primary contest against Wil Cardon, a wealthy businessman who spent a small fortune on his campaign but lost by a considerable margin. Unlike Mr. Carmona, who often refers to himself as a ''street kid,'' Mr. Flake was raised on a ranch in Snowflake, a northern Arizona town named in part for his great-great-grandfather, the Mormon pioneer William J. Flake.
Mr. Flake says he is ''for limited government, economic freedom, individual responsibility and free trade,'' tenets that have earned him staunch support from the Tea Party movement. He has also embraced issues of particular significance to rural voters, like environmental rules that he says have curbed the operation of coal plants, leaving many people unemployed and ''devastating small-town economies.''
From his campaign headquarters in Phoenix on Tuesday, where he was surrounded by young volunteers polling voters on the phone, Mr. Flake said, ''I'm fighting to have some rational policy,'' singling out the Forest Service and the Environmental Protection Agency as agencies that ''need to be reined in.''
Outside groups have been pouring money and resources into the state as the race has tightened. On Wednesday, FreedomWorks for America, a ''super PAC'' linked to the Tea Party, opened an office in Mesa. The operation at the heart of Mr. Flake's base in suburban Phoenix will organize volunteers to solicit votes, said its executive director, Russell Walker, who flew in from Washington.
On Tuesday, the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee bought $526,000 in airtime on behalf of Mr. Carmona, its first direct expenditure in the contest. (The committee had previously given $500,000 to the state's Democratic Party to help pay for the campaign's field offices, among other things.) The National Republican Senatorial Committee has donated $500,000 worth of ads to the Flake effort.
Mr. Carmona, a longtime independent, is running as a Democrat. That is not because the party is ''a perfect fit,'' he said, but because ''I was forced to pick a position, and when I looked at where the Republicans were, especially in this state -- immigration, women's issues -- I chose the Democratic Party.''
He has nonetheless tried to stitch together what he has taken to calling ''a coalition of reasonable people'' to carry him to victory. He has focused on constituencies long believed to be Republican stalwarts, like veterans, who make up roughly 15 percent of eligible voters in the state, and seniors, many of whom dislike the Medicare plan proposed by Representative Paul D. Ryan, the Republican vice-presidential nominee. Mr. Carmona has also appealed to women who are unhappy about the state's attempts to curb reproductive rights.
All along, though, Mr. Carmona has courted Latino voters. He released his second Spanish-language commercial on Tuesday, which introduces him as ''uno de nosotros'' -- one of us -- while highlighting Mr. Flake's vote against the Dream Act, which would have given certain immigrants brought to the country illegally as children a path to legalization.
Mr. Flake has begun to make his case to Latinos as well. He has started running his first Spanish-language ad on television and radio, trying to tap into whatever anti-Obama sentiment there is in that community by referring to Mr. Carmona as ''el hombre de Obama'' -- Obama's man.
A combination of factors, including the state's legislative push to curb illegal immigration and the presence of a Hispanic candidate like Mr. Carmona in the race, -- have been galvanizing among advocacy groups in Arizona, triggering the largest Latino voter registration efforts in memory.
Still, Tara Blanc, a lecturer at the School of Public Affairs at Arizona State University who has studied Latino voting patterns in the state, said Latinos tended to be poorer, younger and less educated than the rest of the population. Those factors generally contribute to low turnouts, she said, so ''whether they'll go to the polls is anybody's guess.''
Their transformative power lies, most likely, in the future. By 2030, Latinos are expected to make up 25 percent of all registered voters in Arizona, up from 15 percent in 2010, according to an analysis by the Morrison Institute for Public Policy at Arizona State.
Chip Scutari, who runs a bipartisan political consulting firm in Phoenix, said a Latino on the ballot could be ''the tipping point for the Latino vote.'' But, he added, the state has ''a lot of conservative, pro-life Latinos,'' who are more likely to vote Republican.
''To say the Latino vote will automatically go to Democrats,'' Mr. Scutari said, ''is oversimplifying the situation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Richard H. Carmona, in Tucson last week, is running as a Democrat in his first bid for public office. A longtime independent, he served as surgeon general under President George W. Bush.
 Jeff Flake, in Phoenix last week, is a six-term Republican congressman with Tea Party support. He and Mr. Carmona are in a tight race to succeed Senator Jon Kyl, a Republican who is retiring. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (75%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (70%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (70%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (67%); ETHNICITY (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (60%); VOLUNTEERS (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (56%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SURGEON GENERAL (83%)

PERSON: JEFF FLAKE (89%); JON KYL (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (88%) ARIZONA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



281 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Emerging Markets Are More Than Just the BRICs

BYLINE: By TIM GRAY

 BODY:
THE BRIC backlash has begun.
The acronym BRIC -- coined by Jim O'Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management -- stands for Brazil, Russia, India and China. It's shorthand for both emerging markets and a strategy by which some fund managers invest in them. Goldman sells an actively managed BRIC mutual fund, as does Franklin Templeton. Guggenheim Investments and iShares, likewise, offer exchange-traded funds built around BRIC indexes.
But lately, stock markets in the BRIC countries -- the four biggest emerging markets -- have gone soft. The MSCI BRIC index lost 2.45 percent, annualized, over the three years through September, while MSCI's broader emerging-markets index gained 3.13 percent. The Class A shares of Goldman's BRIC fund lost 0.73 percent, annualized, over the same period, and those of the Templeton fund lost 0.67 percent, Morningstar said.
Some fund investors have responded by jumping the wall. Last year, a net $5.4 billion of investor money flowed out of the BRIC offerings tracked by EPFR Global in Cambridge, Mass. An additional $1.3 billion leaked out through the end of August.
Some investment professionals say the lackluster returns point to a peril of using only four countries, even ones as big and bountiful as Brazil, Russia, India and China, as proxies for a larger investing world. Different companies and index creators define emerging markets differently, but broader indexes might include 20 countries.
''The BRICs represent 44 percent of the MSCI emerging-market index,'' said John R. Chisholm, chief investment officer at Acadian Asset Management in Boston. ''That's a big percentage. But if you were investing in the U.S., you wouldn't limit yourself to only the four biggest sectors. That wouldn't make sense. Similarly, it doesn't make sense to limit your universe among the emerging countries. There's never really an investment rationale for limiting yourself like that.''
By focusing only on the BRICs, an investor would have missed the bull markets this year in Egypt, up about 30 percent through September, and Turkey, up more than 60 percent.
Put differently, people potentially deny themselves the benefits of greater diversification by buying a fund with such a narrow mandate, said Ashish Swarup, portfolio manager of the Fidelity Emerging Markets Discovery fund. And diversification matters more when investing in emerging markets, because their returns can whip up and down more than those of developed markets. ''You want to buy the broadest portfolio of emerging markets that you can,'' Mr. Swarup said. ''That lowers your volatility.'' His fund had investments in 17 countries at the end of August, with its largest stake in Taiwan.
The BRIC fund mash-up -- volatile returns paired with a narrow niche -- can also tempt nonprofessional investors into making self-defeating choices, said Fran M. Kinniry Jr., a principal in the Vanguard Investment Strategy Group. Behavioral research shows that investors tend to chase returns, buying high and selling low. That tendency is aggravated in riskier, racier corners of the market: people will see big returns one year and jump in, only to see an equally big loss the next year and bail out, he said.
Investors can also undercut themselves by confusing the economic advances of the BRIC countries with an investing rationale, said G. Rusty Johnson, a manager of the Harding Loevner Emerging Markets Advisor fund.
''G.D.P. doesn't equate to stock market performance,'' Mr. Johnson noted. Consider the trajectory of China, where the government still controls many publicly traded companies. ''Their primary goal is not shareholder remuneration,'' he said. ''The companies have social agendas, and that keeps you from optimizing returns.''
Goldman Sachs, for its part, argues that both the economic and investing arguments in favor of the BRIC countries remain valid. ''Each one of the BRICs has met or exceeded our expectations,'' said Katie A. Koch, senior strategist at Goldman. ''Some of them have been more successful than others, but the concept remains intact, and we continue to think these are four of the most important economies in the world.''
Mr. O'Neill devised his acronym in 2001, and his timing was as canny as his coinage was clever. The four countries boomed during the early part of the last decade -- particularly China, which became the second-largest economy in the world. By 2011, all four were among the world's top 10 economies, ranked by gross domestic product.
But lately, even Mr. O'Neill and Goldman have moved beyond his Big Four. His latest emerging-market terms are ''MIST'' and ''N-11.'' MIST stands for Mexico, Indonesia, South Korea and Turkey, and N-11 for the next 11 economies surging behind Brazil, Russia, India and China. (The MIST countries are a subset of the N-11.) Goldman judges the MIST countries as the most promising and developed of the N-11, all of which have young, swelling populations and other good conditions for economic growth, Ms. Koch said.
Thus, starting last year, Goldman began to offer an N-11 Equity fund to complement its BRIC fund. Ms. Koch said both funds could have roles in retail investors' portfolios, either as someone's full emerging-markets allocation or as an add-on, particularly for a person invested only in an emerging-markets index fund. That's because the leading emerging-markets index, by MSCI, excludes Nigeria, Vietnam and Bangladesh -- three countries that Goldman counts as promising.
''We're saying that the default is suboptimal,'' she said. ''You have to ask which countries are really going to drive growth.''
BUT William S. Rocco, an analyst for Morningstar, advised caution when considering a BRIC fund or any narrowly targeted emerging-market offering. Investors who haven't invested in emerging markets before should consider a broader offering, he said. ''Generally, at Morningstar, we don't like the idea of artificially limiting a manager's choices,'' he said.
And if they already own foreign or emerging-markets funds, they probably have exposure to the BRICs and several other emerging and frontier countries, he said. ''Why would you want so much Brazil and China?'' he asked. ''You're really doubling down.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The BRIC nations -- Brazil, Russia, India and China -- have been popular destinations for fund investors. But in the last three years, a BRIC stock index has had an overall decline, while an index for the broad range of emerging markets has climbed. From top are a motorcycle plant in Russia, a lingerie factory in India and a steel facility in China. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAXIM MARMUR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
BABU/REUTERS
 DARLEY SHEN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); BRIC COUNTRIES (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (93%); ACADIAN ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (93%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); INDIA (94%); BRAZIL (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); EGYPT (67%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



282 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Politics; THE AGENDA; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: Romney's Goals on Environmental Regulation Would Face Difficult Path

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Mitt Romney vowed in a campaign appearance earlier this year to ''take a weed whacker'' to the thicket of federal regulations adopted by the Obama administration and promised to impose a rigid freeze and cost cap on all new government rules.
He has pledged to reverse a half-dozen major Environmental Protection Agency pollution and public health rules, to swiftly approve the Keystone XL pipeline from Canada, to rewrite the ambitious new vehicle fuel efficiency standards and to open untouched coastal and wilderness areas to oil and gas exploration. Mr. Romney envisions a nation in which coal-burning power plants are given new life, oil derricks sprout on public lands and waters, industry is given a greater say in the writing and enforcement of environmental rules and the Code of Federal Regulations shrinks rather than grows.
But as President Obama learned in his first years in office as he tried to undo some of his predecessor's industry-friendly energy and environmental policies, such promises are easier to make than keep. They require the rewriting of decades-old laws, the assent of a balky Congress, favorable rulings from courts and a bureaucracy that works smoothly and swiftly to advance a president's goals. That is a steep hill in today's Washington.
Cutting the regulatory state down to size has been a mainstay of Republican campaign oratory for years, and the basis of an avalanche of bills passed over the past 18 months by the conservative House Republican majority, all of which have died in the Democratic-led Senate.
For a President Romney to succeed in his pledges would require a significant revision to the Clean Air Act and other landmark environmental laws enacted over the past 40 years. It would also mean overcoming longstanding political opposition to oil drilling off the Florida coastline and in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. His administration would have to undergo a time-consuming process of withdrawing current and pending federal rules and resubmitting them through the complex regulatory system.
While Mr. Romney blames the Obama administration for the edifice of federal law and regulation that he argues is choking off economic recovery, many of these rules go back decades.
''It's not just Obama he's attacking, but past acts of Congress,'' said Rena I. Steinzor, a specialist in administrative law at the University of Maryland and the president of the Center for Progressive Reform. ''This does not all spring from the frenzied imagination of Obama's E.P.A. It all comes down from statutes.''
She noted that the Clean Air Act was passed in 1970, and that while many conservatives and business lobbyists believe some of its provisions are costly and onerous, there is no groundswell to repeal it. Mr. Romney advocates changing one of its key provisions, requiring that human health standards be set without regard to cost, a shift supported by many House Republicans. But such a change would probably fail in the Senate if Democrats retained their majority there, and it would certainly be challenged in court.
The sharpest contrasts between a second Obama term and a first Romney term might come in the way air pollution and fossil fuels are treated. Mr. Obama postponed a decision in 2011 on a stricter new standard for smog-causing ozone pollution that would have thrown hundreds of cities out of compliance with clean air rules, requiring costly new plans for limiting pollution from transportation and industry. But the president said he intended to allow the rule to go forward in 2013 or 2014. Mr. Romney has said that the rule is too expensive and that he will not pursue it.
The Obama administration has also signaled that it intends to regulate the disposal of coal ash from power plants and to continue efforts to limit mountaintop-removal coal mining, a particularly destructive form of extraction. Mr. Romney says such potential rules will hurt coal-producing regions and has promised to encourage coal production.
On hydraulic fracturing for oil and gas, which has led to a boom in domestic production, Mr. Romney has complained that federal rules are too strict and permitting is too slow. He wants to turn all permitting on public lands over to the states, an approach Mr. Obama has so far rejected because it would impose different standards across the country.
Mr. Romney has also said that he will reverse the Obama administration's proposed regulations limiting greenhouse gas emissions from power plants that contribute to climate change. In his acceptance speech at the Republican convention, he described such rules as an ''assault on coal and gas and oil'' that is driving up energy costs.
The Obama administration's efforts to address climate change arise from a finding that carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases endanger human health and the environment, based on the landmark 2007 Supreme Court decision Massachusetts v. E.P.A., brought by a dozen states, including Massachusetts when Mr. Romney was governor.
A federal appeals court panel recently upheld the rules adopted by the E.P.A. as a result of that ruling, saying that the agency's interpretation of the law and the Supreme Court decision were ''unambiguously correct.''
In responses to a recent questionnaire, Mr. Romney allowed that the world was getting warmer, that human activity contributes to the warming and that some action may be required to deal with it. But he opposes significant steps to combat climate change. He also has said he would revisit a recently announced fuel economy standard for cars and light trucks that would double fuel efficiency to an average of 54.5 miles per gallon for the 2025 model year while markedly reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The new target was the result of years of negotiation among automakers, the Department of Transportation, the E.P.A. and regulators in a number of states, led by California.
Mr. Romney characterized the new mileage goals as ''extreme,'' saying they would limit vehicle choices for consumers and drive up the cost of new cars. Automakers, however, are not eager to renegotiate the standards and are already adopting designs and technology to meet them. The administration says that consumers will save as much as $8,000 in fuel costs over the life of the new vehicles, more than covering the added cost of the more efficient technology.
As part of his critique of the Obama administration's approach to regulation, Mr. Romney has asserted that the government has added tens of thousands of workers to write, review and enforce new federal rules.
In an address at the University of Chicago in March, Mr. Romney said that Americans' freedom is threatened by unelected, unaccountable regulators who he said were ''always on the prowl.''
''And under President Obama,'' he said, ''they're multiplying like the proverbial rabbits. I mean, the number of federal employees has grown by 140,000 people under this president. And those regulators, they do a lot of damage.''
Mr. Romney implied that all those new hires were regulatory jobs. In fact, almost all of the growth of the federal work force under the Obama administration has come in the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security and Veterans Affairs, according to PolitiFact, which based its analysis on data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
On one pending regulatory matter, the Keystone XL pipeline, Mr. Romney and Mr. Obama are likely to arrive at the same conclusion, although by different mechanisms and on different timetables. Mr. Romney has frequently said that on his first day in office he would approve the pipeline, a much-contested project to carry heavy oil from tar sands formations in Canada to refineries on the Gulf Coast.
Mr. Obama has approved a nearly 500-mile section of the pipeline from Oklahoma to the gulf and has signaled that he intends to green-light the rest of the project in 2013 after environmental and routing reviews are completed.
For Mr. Romney to make good on his pledge to approve the project on Jan. 20, 2013, he would need a determination from the State Department -- which would still be led by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton until noon on that day -- that the project was in the national interest. The department is not yet ready to issue that finding.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Demonstrators calling for the cancellation of the Keystone XL pipeline used a prop at a rally in Washington last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); WILDLIFE (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (76%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); OIL EXPLORATION (75%); WILDERNESS (75%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (71%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (71%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (71%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (70%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (70%); POWER PLANTS (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (70%); OIL EXTRACTION (70%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



283 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Can I Phone a Friend?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
LAST week's debate was important not only because Mitt Romney ''won'' and thereby energized his moribund campaign. It was important because Romney won in a way that exposed and deepened President Obama's two greatest vulnerabilities in this election, while overcoming, at least for one night, Romney's greatest weakness.
Maybe we should have seen this coming. For weeks, Romney had performed so badly and had fallen so far behind in swing states that if this campaign were a Ryder Cup singles match, you'd have said the president felt he had the match in the bag with just a few holes left to play. So he did the worst thing you can do in match play golf: he started playing not to lose. He continued with an uninspired, vague and cautious campaign and just waited for Romney to keep hitting balls out of bounds. Romney, his back to the wall, had no choice but to start aggressively playing to win.
He did so by repositioning himself as a center-right Republican moderate. Yes, this required him to mischaracterize and disguise key aspects of his platform on taxes and health care. But because Obama did not pounce on that abrupt Romney shift to the center, Romney's arguments were allowed to be presented without any counter and, as I said, scored a direct hit on Obama's two greatest vulnerabilities.
The first, and the most dangerous threat to Obama's re-election, is a critical mass of voters saying this: ''Barack Obama, nice man, good father, great that we finally elected an African-American. He tried hard. But you know what? I just want to try something new, even if I don't know it will work.''
That sentiment is deadly for Obama. As long as Romney didn't seem like a credible alternative, Obama kept it at bay, even though the economy has stagnated. But Romney reawakened that mood by the confident and crisp way he talked about the mechanics of how jobs are created -- through start-ups, small businesses and entrepreneurship -- and the catalytic power of markets. His presentation crackled with a freshness and a sense of possibility that was completely missing in Obama's monotone discussion of health care, deficits and government programs. And where Obama had a chance to talk about how his own green jobs initiative has actually spurred all kinds of innovations and start-ups, he whiffed. (As some have noted, it is too bad the debate rules didn't allow him to phone a friend.)
I confess, spending time with inventors, social entrepreneurs and people who start companies really floats my boat -- and I am not alone. If there has been one consistent weakness to this president's public messaging, it is that it is often lacking in any excitement about innovation and entrepreneurship -- the real drivers of our economy. In recent years, all net new jobs in America have come from start-ups.
Obama knows this, and, in his convention speech, at least he actually spoke to it eloquently, saying: ''We honor the strivers, the dreamers, the risk-takers, the entrepreneurs who have always been the driving force behind our free enterprise system.''
Yes! Yes! Yes! Mr. President. And. in the next debate, look into the camera and tell us what you are going to do in a second term to multiply the number of those risk-takers by 10. Give those people who are saying, ''Nice guy, but I just want to try something new,'' a real reason to be excited that you not only want to deliver national health insurance but also an innovation economy that will ensure we can afford it.
Your closing statement was awful: If you re-elect me, I will ''fight every single day on behalf of the American people and the middle class.'' That's a given! What great inspiring journey are you going to take the whole country on to invent the future and spark more good jobs?
The other Obama weakness exploited by Romney was the country's political paralysis. Obama is right -- most of that gridlock was orchestrated by the Republicans to make him fail. But the fact is, a lot of Americans today look at our politicians and feel as though we're the children of permanently divorcing parents -- and they are sick of it. There is a longing to see our politicians working together again. So when Romney spoke about how he met with Democrats once a week as Massachusetts governor to get stuff done, that surely touched a hopeful chord with some voters. Obama needs to stress that he, from his side, aspires to restore bipartisanship and has a plan to overcome paralysis and pull the country together in a second term.
The weakness Romney overcame was the notion that he didn't care about or know how to talk to 47 percent of the country. This was the first time Romney addressed the whole country directly, rather than a purely Republican audience. He didn't have to worry about the nut balls he was running against in the G.O.P. primary and was not forced to cater just to the Tea Party base. So he finally took out the Etch A Sketch and moved to the center.
Is this how he would really govern? I wouldn't trust it -- not with all his voodoo math -- but it was a lot more effective messaging than that by the Romney of old. This new Romney sounded like a man applying to be the C.E.O. of a country that needs a turnaround. Obama sounded like a man who forgot -- or resented -- that he needed to reapply for his job at all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (88%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); GOLF (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (65%); JOB CREATION (61%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



284 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Iran Denies Plan to End Nuclear Standoff

BYLINE: By THOMAS ERDBRINK

 BODY:
TEHRAN -- Iranian officials on Saturday dismissed a New York Times report saying Iran had offered a ''nine-step plan'' for resolving a standoff with the United States and its allies over its disputed nuclear program, calling the report ''baseless.''
The Times, quoting unnamed senior Obama administration and European officials, reported on Friday that Iran had quietly proposed a plan to Western countries in July in which it demanded that oil sanctions and other economic moves be lifted.
In exchange, Tehran would gradually suspend the production of the uranium that would be easiest for it to convert into a nuclear weapon. Iran has said that it needs to enrich uranium to a level of 20 percent purity to run future civil and medical reactors, but as part of the nine-step plan, the report said, it signaled its willingness to give up production of that medium-grade uranium.
On Saturday, Iran's nuclear top negotiator, Saeed Jalili, told state news media that Iran had never made such an offer.
''Iran has never delivered any new proposal other than what had been put forward in talks with the P5+1,'' Mr. Jalili told the state Islamic Republic News Agency, referring to official negotiations between Iran and the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council, plus Germany. ''The New York Times and other U.S. media reports are baseless.''
The Times report did not characterize the proposal as new, but said it was based on a proposal made to European officials in July, during the negotiations with the P5+1. Details of that proposal only began to emerge in the past week or two, when Iranian officials were attending the opening of the United Nations.
Sadollah Zarei, a columnist for the influential state-run Kayhan newspaper, said that during his recent visit to the United Nations General Assembly in New York, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said Iran was ready to suspend 20 percent enrichment. ''But only Mr. Jalili is authorized to make decisions in the nuclear talks,'' Mr. Zarei said, ''so when he denies, it means there has never been a 'nine-step plan.' ''
Several Iranian leaders and commanders have accused Mr. Ahmadinejad of having used his September trip to the United Nations to promote direct talks with United States officials, a political taboo in Iran. Mr. Ahmadinejad's staff has denied the allegations.
As reported by The Times, the Iranian plan called for a step-by-step dismantling of the sanctions while the Iranians ended work at one of two sites where they are enriching uranium to a level of up to 20 percent purity. United States officials dismissed the plan as unworkable because Iran could easily restart its program, but the sanctions would take years to reimpose.
Western powers fear that Iran's nuclear program is a cover to make an atomic bomb and say that Iran's insistence on nuclear fuel enriched beyond 5 percent is an example of this ambition.
Last week, Iran's national currency, the rial, dropped more than 40 percent, prompting demonstrations on Wednesday. The government intervened on Saturday by trying to force money changers to sell their dollars at much lower rates, around 28,000 rials for $1, much less than the 37,500 the currency was trading for on Wednesday. Many traders said they refused to sell.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); WRITERS (62%); RELIGION (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

PERSON: SAEED JALILI (79%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (78%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); IRAN (90%); GERMANY (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



285 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; CAMPAIGN STOPS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Frenemies: A Love Story

BYLINE: By THOMAS P. O'NEILL III. 
Thomas P. O'Neill III, the lieutenant governor of Massachusetts from 1975 to 1983, is the founder and chief executive of the public affairs firm O'Neill and Associates.

 BODY:
To paraphrase a sometime friend of my father: There they go again.
Twice in their debate on Wednesday, President Obama and Mitt Romney brought up the names of my father, Tip O'Neill, and Ronald Reagan, the Republican icon, asserting that the relationship between Reagan and my father, a Democrat who was speaker of the House for most of Reagan's presidency, should serve as a model for how political leaders can differ deeply on issues and yet work together for the good of the country.
It is not a new idea. As Washington has become increasingly partisan, and increasingly deadlocked, a misty aura has grown around the O'Neill and Reagan years. That mist obscures some hard truths -- and harder words.
Let's not forget my father's blunt descriptions of his ideological opposite as ''Herbert Hoover with a smile'' or ''a cheerleader for selfishness.'' I often heard him say of the president: ''Trust, but verify,'' and ''Love the sinner, hate the sin.'' My father, likewise, was not pleased to be compared by Reagan to the character in the video game Pac-Man -- ''a round thing that gobbles up money.''
They were two men from humble Irish-American backgrounds who did not back down from a fight, and their worldviews were poles apart. As someone who watched the back-and-forth from a front-row seat, I know they each believed deeply in what they fought for -- and that each had deep concern about where the other's political views could take this country. My father detested Reagan-driven policies that left more money in the pockets of the wealthy -- and cut the social programs for the elderly and the poor that he fought so hard to create.
As speaker of the House, he was obliged to fight what he and his party believed were disastrous steps being taken by the Republicans. My father fought tirelessly to see that Reagan's policies did not run roughshod over the disenfranchised. The president fought too, pushing back against spending he believed was out of control and a social system he thought created dependency.
On occasion, these dueling philosophies brought both men to the mat -- to the point where neither would back down. My father stood firm against deep cuts and other proposed changes to Social Security, believing in his core that the elderly poor would bear too great a burden. The political battle that resulted, in 1982, was among the most bruising my father and Reagan ever had.
In the fall of 1986, they waged war again over the renewal of the Clean Water Act. Just months before my father retired, after 34 years in the House, leaders in Congress hammered out an agreement that seemed to satisfy all sides; the bill passed through the House and Senate without a single ''nay'' vote. When the president later vetoed the bill, my father didn't relent -- urging his former colleagues to override the veto from the sidelines. I remember some of what he said at the time. None of it is printable.
But such unyielding standoffs were, in fact, rare. What both men deplored more than each other's political philosophy was stalemate, and a country that was so polarized by ideology and party politics that it could not move forward. There were tough words and important disagreements over everything from taxation to Medicare and military spending. But there was yet a stronger commitment to getting things done.
That commitment to put country ahead of personal belief and party loyalty is what millions of Americans miss so much right now. It allowed these two men to bend enough, even after their knockdown fight in 1982, to forge an agreement that helped save Social Security -- something both men knew needed to be done. It meant that Reagan could support an increase in federal gas taxes, so as to finance improvements in infrastructure that could put thousands of unemployed Americans back to work. My father hated to see the House cut social programs, even as he recognized that the president had been elected by millions of Americans and had earned the right to steer the country.
Historic tax reforms, a united front that brought down the Soviet Union -- both came of a commitment to find common ground. While neither man embraced the other's worldview, each respected the other's right to hold it. Each respected the other as a man.
President Reagan knew my father treasured Boston College, so he was the centerpiece of a dinner at a Washington hotel that raised $1 million to build the O'Neill Library. When Reagan was shot at that same hotel, my father went to his hospital room to pray by his bed.
No, my father and Reagan weren't close friends. Famously, after 6 p.m. on quite a few work days, they would sit down for drinks at the White House. But it wasn't the drinks or the conversation that allowed progress to happen. What helped keep this country moving, rather, was that two great men refused to let fund-raisers, activists, party platforms or ideological chasms stand between them and action -- action tempered and improved, inevitably, by compromise.
I don't blame Mr. Obama or Mr. Romney for getting nostalgic about that.
This is an excerpt from Campaign Stops, at nytimes.com/campaignstops.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); AGING (67%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (63%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (50%); WATER QUALITY (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



286 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Why Women Hide Their Pregnancies

BYLINE: By ALISSA QUART. 
The author of ''Branded'' and the forthcoming ''Republic of Outsiders.''

 BODY:
LAST week, Yahoo's new chief executive, Marissa Mayer, gave birth to a baby boy. When she was hired in July, late in her second trimester, bloggers and newspaper columnists celebrated the breaking of another pane in the glass ceiling. Pregnant women, it seemed, could be hired for top jobs. Given the many breathless and celebratory ''bump watches'' in tabloids, it might seem that the stigma around working while pregnant has finally lifted. The birth of Ms. Mayer's son came only a week after the host of the Emmys, Jimmy Kimmel, introduced the actress Claire Danes with the line, ''Our next presenter has a baby in her.'' Ms. Danes traversed the stage in a bright yellow dress that emphasized her fertile form.
For the rich and powerful, pregnancy might not be an obstacle -- it might even help one's career. But for the rest of us, it remains a hindrance.
Although federal law prohibits companies with 15 or more employees from discriminating against pregnant job seekers, it can be quite hard for an ordinary woman to land a job if she lets prospective bosses know she is pregnant.
My own pregnant friends tend to cover up, literally and figuratively. Meeting with prospective employers, like law firms and news organizations, they hide their bumps under oversize jackets or slouchy sweaters. I met one for dinner after her job interview and she was wearing a giant, gray, cabled sweater. ''I am not telling them that I am about to enter my second trimester,'' she said, pointing to the heavy knit. She got the job, and when she accepted, she revealed her status, soon sensing her new boss's displeasure.
At work, her 36-year-old colleague was afraid to get pregnant at all for fear she would not get promoted. These fears are not unreasonable. Claims of discrimination to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission from pregnant women are increasing, having risen 23 percent from 2005 to 2011.
Proposed legislation meant to help pregnant workers was introduced in the Senate last month. The Pregnant Workers Fairness Act would require employers to offer workplace accommodations for pregnant women, like exempting them from duties that involve heavy lifting and offering them plenty of water breaks, among other things -- the same sort of accommodations offered to disabled workers.
The experience of regular women is sadly very far from that of celebrities. Among the complaints filed with the E.E.O.C. in September was one against J's Seafood Restaurant in Panama City, Fla. Two servers had been fired the preceding October after, the lawsuit claims, the restaurant became aware of their pregnancies. Another suit alleges that Bayou City Wings, a chain restaurant in Houston, forced employees to leave after their first trimesters, telling them it was ''irresponsible'' to keep working after they had become pregnant.
So what separates your everyday waitress from Ms. Mayer and Ms. Danes? Simply put, a server is easily replaceable in the eyes of management. In contrast, in the case of Yahoo, the company was struggling to find a savior, and there were few options. Ms. Mayer, pregnant or not, was deemed their best option. Ms. Danes, of course, carried the Emmy juggernaut for the show ''Homeland'' and has helped boost the visibility of the cable network Showtime. When reporting on a pregnant microelite, we should think twice before celebrating the idea that the glass ceiling has been shattered in a meaningful way.
Of course, employers can be put in a bind when workers take maternity time, and keeping a pregnant woman on the payroll can be an economic drag, especially if companies offer decent paid leaves. We might want to consider easing the burden on employers by offering a tax credit.
But the most important reason to end discrimination against pregnant women has to do with what kind of society we want to live in. We can admit that pregnant workers may be less profitable employees than nonpregnant workers in the short term, yet choose to value aspects of life beyond economic productivity. We may also want to protect pregnant workers simply so we don't become a culture of deceit in the workplace. Women shouldn't feel that they have to betray their own ethics and pretend -- sometimes for months -- that they aren't pregnant when they are.
In an economy where women now make up half the work force, we're going to have to address the treatment of pregnant employees more systemically. The passage of the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act would better protect against the discrimination pregnant job seekers face. With luck, one day, women will be able to flaunt their gestational status in a job interview in the same way Claire Danes, in her yellow dress, flaunted it at the Emmys.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RACHEL IDZERDA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (93%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); DISABLED WORKERS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (89%); LITIGATION (87%); SUITS & CLAIMS (86%); RESTAURANTS (86%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); WRITERS (77%); WOMEN (77%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); LAWYERS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); LEGAL SERVICES (67%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

PERSON: MARISSA MAYER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (76%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



287 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1601 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
SLOW-BUILDING CHALLENGE
TO CHILE ON EASTER ISLAND
Inspired by other parts of Polynesia that have obtained political autonomy or are seeking independence, leaders of the Rapanui people are mounting a rebellion against Chile. Their movement on the island presents a unique test for a Latin American country: quelling a challenge to its rule in the middle of the South Pacific. Page 9
KILLING IN ANTITERROR RAID
French police officers fatally shot a man during an antiterrorism raid in the northeastern city of Strasbourg, one of a series of raids across France stemming from the investigation into a grenade attack last month on a Jewish market near Paris, the police and judiciary officials said. Page 10
NORTH KOREAN DEFECTS
A North Korean Army sergeant crossed a demilitarized zone and defected to South Korea after killing his platoon and squadron leaders, a South Korean military spokesman said. Page 10
POPE'S BUTLER IS SENTENCED
A Vatican court sentenced the pope's former butler, Paolo Gabriele, to 18 months in prison for leaking confidential documents to a journalist in one of the most serious breaches of Vatican secrecy in modern history. Page 10
GROUP DENIES A STRIKE
Foxconn Technology Group denied that production was interrupted at a Chinese factory that made Apple's iPhones, although state news media and an overseas labor watch group said some workers had halted production lines. Page 15
A FALLEN CHINESE LEADER
The former wife of Bo Xilai spoke of the end of her marriage to an idealist, showing the web of entanglements among China's ''red nobility.'' Page 11
National
TINY ISLAND BECOMES
CLIMATE-CHANGE BELLWETHER
A married team of scientists, their mentor and a rotating cadre of graduate students have been observing disturbing declines in wildlife on Tatoosh, a tiny island in Washington State. Page 20
SUPPORTERS RETURN TO AKIN
Representative Todd Akin, who is running for the Senate from Missouri, lost the support of many fellow Republicans after he made comments about abortion and ''legitimate rape.'' Now some Republicans are deliberating whether to return to Mr. Akin, whose name is still on the ballot. PAGE 16
FLORIDIANS FACE INITIATIVES
In a year in which most states have steered clear of contentious ballot initiatives, Florida voters are facing two proposed constitutional amendments -- one on abortion, the other on the separation of church and state -- that could have far-reaching repercussions. Page 20
EMORY CONFRONTS BIAS
The evidence of bias against Jewish students in Emory's dental school has long been known, but until now, the university had neither admitted the bias nor apologized for it. Page 22
Metropolitan
FOR POOR SCHOOLCHILDREN,
A POVERTY OF WORDS
Along the socioeconomic spectrum in the city's student population, there is a corresponding vocabulary gap for children beginning well before kindergarten. Big City. Page 1
A SUITE CALLED HOME
Twenty-eight years ago, Habiba Ali moved into Room 320 in the Hotel Wales, and she has remained there, weekly linen service included, through several owners, renovations and entreaties to get out. Page 1
Sports
WEIGHING THE PROS AND CONS
OF ICING FIELD-GOAL KICKERS
In N.F.L. games, does the practice of calling a timeout seconds before a field-goal attempt distract the kicker or give him additional time to practice and to prepare better? Page 6
JAGUARS LEADING IN LUXURY
The Jacksonville Jaguars have one victory and the lowest-ranked offense after the first month of the N.F.L. season. But they have spent more than $3 million to construct the N.F.L.'s most luxurious locker room at EverBank Field. Page 6
METS STICK BY MANAGER
Mets players and the general manager sounded votes of confidence last week for Manager Terry Collins, whose position seems secure despite a second straight season that went awry. Page 5
RANGERS' LACKLUSTER FINISH
What might have been Josh Hamilton's final game for the Texas Rangers was unquestionably one of his worst. A season of so much promise ended with a wild-card loss to Baltimore. On Baseball. Page 4
PROTECTING YOUNG ATHLETES
Robert C. Cantu, an expert in concussions, offers proposals for how to limit their occurrence in youth sports. Page 8
Obituaries
CARROLL F. JOHNSON, 99
He was one of the first schools superintendents to voluntarily use busing to integrate an urban school district, doing so in White Plains in the 1960s. Page 24
HOWARD H. SCOTT, 92
He was part of the team at Columbia Records that introduced the long-playing vinyl record in 1948 before going on to produce albums with the New York Philharmonic and many other giants of classical music. Page 24
Sunday Business
THEY WORK LONG HOURS,
BUT WHAT ABOUT RESULTS?
Too often, professionals are judged by the amount of time they spend at the office. But that gauge is often at odds with an efficient workplace, writes Robert C. Pozen. Page 1
A MARKET MIRED IN ITS PAST
The $4 trillion market in municipal bonds, which finances American life where it is lived, has been stuck in the Dark Ages for decades, writes Gretchen Morgenson. Fair Game. Page 1
ELECTION PREDICTION MARKETS
There is an elegant simplicity about election prediction markets, which bring a combined market wisdom to a constantly changing presidential campaign, writes Jeff Sommer. Strategies. Page 6
HOW HOUSING FEVER SPREAD
There was little about the economic climate in 2004 that would explain why a housing peak should be coming soon. But something else, hard to discern, was driving things, writes Robert J. Shiller. PAGE 6
THE ASSISTANT'S DILEMMA
While administrative assistants have taken on more responsibility, they still tend to have influence without authority, writes Phyllis Korkki. Workstation. Page 7
LOOKING TO NEW MARKETS
Popular in the last decade, Brazil, Russia, India and China -- known as the BRIC countries -- have lost some investment appeal, with some fund managers suggesting a look at a broader range of emerging economies. Page 10
Automobiles
PRESERVING CLASSICS,
WRINKLES AND ALL
Unrestored cars may not be the headline-making winners of best-in-show awards, but collectors are recognizing their special status by driving up their prices. Sports, Page 11
Book Review
TROUBLE AHEAD: PREQUEL
FOLLOWS DRUG ADDICTS
''Skagboys'' is Irvine Welsh's new book in a series that traces the exuberant depravities of Scottish drug fiends. It's the prequel to ''Trainspotting,'' and shows how his miscreants first went wrong. Review by Steve Almond. Page 10
UNLOCKING A WRITER
In the book ''Escape Velocity,'' the sportswriter and humorist Jay Jennings assembled a collection of essays and journalism and travel writing by the novelist Charles Portis, which can be read as a key to the experiences that shaped Portis's novels. Review by Carlo Rotella. Page 18
AMERICAN NOSTALGIA
''In Sunlight and in Shadow,'' Mark Helprin's new novel, tries to resurrect the grand visions of America in the 1940s with his character Clark Gable, a paratrooper who returned to Manhattan after World War II to save his father's business from the mafia and win the love of a woman. Review by Liesl Schillinger. Page 20
Arts & Leisure
DICK WOLF'S DRAMA:
THIS IS HIS STORY
With the new show ''Chicago Fire,'' the producer Dick Wolf is adjusting with the changing broadcast television landscape toward more serial stories and away from the strict procedural style of ''Law & Order,'' which made him famous. PAGE 1
HIP-HOP'S BURST OF CHANGE
The defining document of hip-hop's current evolutionary state isn't a song, or a music video or a concert. Years from now, cultural archaeologists will do much better to look back over the Twitter account of the 17-year-old Chicago rapper Chief Keef, who's been exploding, or imploding, depending on how you look at it, writes Jon Caramanica. PAGE 1
WAKING DREAM JUST FOR ONE
A loose-knit, multidisciplinary collective called Odyssey Works has been quietly inverting art's longstanding arrangement with its audience, creating an elaborate 36-hour performance for and about an audience of one, after months of detailed study of that person. PAGE 19
Magazine
AN EXECUTIVE SWALLOWED
BY THE LONDON WHALE
A $6 billion mistake at JPMorgan Chase took down Ina Drew, the most powerful woman on Wall Street, whose career traced dramatic changes in finance. PAGE 32
A MAN OF MANY MINDS
Drawing conclusions from Mitt Romney's single term as Massachusetts's chief executive is a feat of extrapolation, but those four years were telling, even more so than the campaign's decision not to talk about them. PAGE 26
Editorial
BETTER NEWS ON JOBS,
BUT NEED FOR MORE ACTION
The latest report on unemployment, while stronger than expected, underlines the need for further federal action. Sunday Review, PAGE 12
IMPARTIAL JUSTICE AT RISK
A right-wing push to oust three sitting judges in Florida threatens fair and independent courts. Sunday Review, PAGE 12
BIG LASER IN TROUBLE
Congress needs to look hard at whether an expensive laser fusion project should be continued, or be scrapped to help reduce federal spending. Sunday Review, PAGE 12
Op-Ed
MAUREEN DOWD
Aaron Sorkin pulls back the curtain on a secret New England summit meeting. Sunday Review, PAGE 1
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
According to scientists, formaldehyde causes cancer. It also has friends in Washington. Sunday Review, PAGE 13
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
While Mitt Romney was repositioning himself in the match, the president was playing not to lose. Sunday Review, PAGE 13
FRANK BRUNI
In a vocation that rewards swagger, President Obama wobbled in Denver. Sunday Review, Page 3
ROSS DOUTHAT
In 90 prime-time minutes, the country had a glimpse of what our politics might look like if the Republican Party actually had a leader again. Sunday Review, Page 9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); REFERENDUMS (84%); CHILDREN (83%); BALLOTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); ARMIES (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (74%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); SENTENCING (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); HISTORY (72%); SHOOTINGS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); MARRIAGE (69%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (68%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); SMARTPHONES (65%); VOTERS & VOTING (65%); CLIMATE CHANGE (63%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); ABORTION (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); CHURCH & STATE (60%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (82%); FOXCONN TECHNOLOGY CO LTD (55%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (82%); 2354 (TAIEX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (82%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (82%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%); NAICS423690 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (55%)

PERSON: W TODD AKIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (72%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) CHILE (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); HOLY SEE (90%); FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



288 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; UNBOXED; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: Seeds That Federal Money Can Plant

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
LUIS VON AHN, a computer scientist at Carnegie Mellon University, sold one Internet start-up to Google in 2009, and is now on to another. With the new company, Duolingo, he hopes to tap the millions of people learning languages online to create a crowdsourced engine of translation. ''We want to translate the whole Web into every major language,'' Mr. von Ahn says.
Ambitious, sure, but Duolingo recently attracted $15 million of venture capital. The investors are betting on Mr. von Ahn, his idea and his growing team of 18 engineers, language experts and Web designers.
Mr. von Ahn, 33, personifies some of the essential ingredients of America's innovation culture, when it works well. An immigrant from Guatemala, he has intelligence and entrepreneurial energy to spare. And he has received a helping hand from the federal government. Duolingo began as a university research project financed by the National Science Foundation.
That pattern has been repeated countless times over the years. Government support plays a vital role in incubating new ideas that are harvested by the private sector, sometimes many years later, creating companies and jobs. A report published this year by the National Research Council, a government advisory group, looked at eight computing technologies, including digital communications, databases, computer architectures and artificial intelligence, tracing government-financed research to commercialization. It calculated the portion of revenue at 30 well-known corporations that could be traced back to the seed research backed by government agencies. The total was nearly $500 billion a year.
''If you take any major information technology company today, from Google to Intel to Qualcomm to Apple to Microsoft and beyond, you can trace the core technologies to the rich synergy between federally funded universities and industry research and development,'' says Peter Lee, a corporate vice president of Microsoft Research. Dr. Lee headed the National Research Council committee that produced the report, titled ''Continuing Innovation in Information Technology.''
The long-term importance of government-supported research may loom small in the current debate over how to reduce the federal deficit. But it is an economic issue worth keeping in mind, and one that points to the kinds of tough choices and trade-offs facing policy makers.
The Budget Control Act, which is scheduled to take effect next January unless Congress shifts course, calls for across-the-board cuts in discretionary spending -- for programs other than entitlements like Social Security and Medicare. A new study by the American Association for the Advancement of Science estimates that federal spending on research and development would be trimmed by more than $12 billion in 2013. The National Science Foundation, which finances most government-supported computer science research at universities, would have its budget cut by more than $450 million.
Last week, Senate leaders were trying to negotiate a deficit-reduction deal that would avoid the automatic cuts, but programs like those that finance research are likely to receive rigorous scrutiny from budget-cutters for years into the future. Already, the Advancement of Science report says, government spending on research and development has declined by 10 percent since 2010, when adjusted for inflation.
YET why should government support for scientific research and technology development be spared from the belt-tightening? Unless society benefits inordinately from such spending, there is no case for special treatment. In a new book, ''Innovation Economics: The Race for Global Advantage'' (Yale University Press), Robert D. Atkinson and Stephen J. Ezell forcefully present the argument for the exceptional role that science and technology play in the economy.
Cutting funding for research and development, Mr. Atkinson said in an interview, is ''completely shortsighted.'' Spending on science and technology, he said, is an investment that produces a larger economy in the future -- generating wealth, jobs and tax revenue. Besides, he said, the bill is not very high in the United States. America ranks 22nd among 30 nations in university funding and research and development funding as a share of the economy's gross domestic product.
In their book, Mr. Atkinson, president of the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, a nonprofit policy research group, and Mr. Ezell, a senior analyst at the foundation, define innovation as not only the generation of new ideas but also as their adoption in new products, processes, services and organizational models. In their view, the goal of policy should be to invest in and nurture the development of the innovation pipeline, from basic science to commercialization.
That would call for a more hands-on role for government than is embraced by the mainstream of economic thought, certainly in the United States. The consensus of most economists is that basic science is a ''public good,'' with the benefits widely shared by society, and thus a worthwhile recipient of government financing. But technology -- the application of science to real-world problems -- is regarded as a ''private good,'' with its development best left to the marketplace.
Mr. Atkinson, whose Ph.D. is in city and regional planning, says he is presenting the case for loosening the grip of ''neoclassical economists'' on policy. He has held economic and technology policy jobs in Rhode Island and for Congress, and has served in advisory groups in the administrations of President Obama, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush. Mr. Atkinson's nonprofit policy research organization receives financial support from groups including the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation and the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, and from corporations including Intel and I.B.M.
A linchpin of innovation policy, according to Mr. Atkinson, is collaboration between government and industry. As a prime example, he points to Germany and its network of 60 Fraunhofer Institutes, financed 70 percent by business and 30 percent by federal and state government. The institutes, he says, perform applied research intended to translate promising technologies, from polymer research to nanotechnology, into products. These tech-transfer clusters, Mr. Atkinson says, are an important reason for the strength of Germany's manufacturing sector, even though wages for its factory workers are 40 percent higher than those for American workers.
Taking a page from the German model, the Obama administration announced this year plans for up to 15 manufacturing innovation institutes, public-private collaborations called the National Network of Manufacturing Innovation. The first will be in Youngstown, Ohio, specializing in custom manufacturing using 3-D printing technology. Mr. Atkinson says that while this is a good step, what is needed is a long-term commitment. He noted that Germany's Fraunhofer initiative began nearly four decades ago, and has grown steadily.
Mr. Atkinson's focus on research investment, and on the pathways that bring ideas into the marketplace, is gaining increasing attention in economics, according to David B. Audretsch, an economist at Indiana University. ''Research and development unequivocally pays off economically,'' Mr. Audretsch says. ''But the biggest payoff is in ecosystems that take the innovative inputs and make them commercial outputs -- products.''
MR. VON AHN'S start-up is a new addition to the growing technology cluster around Pittsburgh, with Carnegie Mellon, a major research university, as its hub. Duolingo combines crowdsourcing and computing, language learning and online translation. People learn a language at no cost, while their lessons feed into Duolingo's fast-expanding translation database, which is sorted and scored for accuracy with smart software.
The crowdsourcing principle is similar to that used by Mr. von Ahn's previous company, reCaptcha. Its service employs the widely used Web security feature in which users identify and type words, scanned from old books and newpapers, to gain access to a site or service -- in the process helping to accurately digitize those old texts.
But Duolingo is far more ambitious and complex. The exploratory research was supported by a five-year grant from the National Science Foundation, about $120,000 a year, used mostly to pay the tuition and living expenses for a graduate student. Two years later, Mr. von Ahn and his small team had made enough progress to have a working prototype, start the company and attract private investors.
''The grants are really helpful when you're working on something that is scientifically complex,'' Mr. von Ahn says, ''when you're in the early year, or two or more, when you have no idea if it will work.''
Mr. von Ahn, joining other scientists, has made a few trips to Washington to speak to members of Congress and their staffs. His message is this: ''Don't eat your seed corn. It may seem like an easy thing to cut now. But years later, you will regret that you did not invest a tiny portion of your federal budget in research, in the future.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KYLE FEWELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (90%); STARTUPS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); BUDGET CUTS (85%); BUDGET DEFICITS (85%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); SCIENCE POLICY (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (77%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (74%); CROWDSOURCING (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); MEDICARE (68%); JOB CREATION (66%); SOCIAL SECURITY (64%); EXECUTIVES (62%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (55%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (51%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (85%); MICROSOFT CORP (81%); QUALCOMM INC (54%); INTEL CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (56%); NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (81%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (54%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (81%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



289 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 5826 words

HEADLINE: A Man of Many Minds

BYLINE: By ROBERT DRAPER

 BODY:
It was almost exactly four years ago that Mitt Romney watched up close as John McCain agonized over how he should respond to America's spiraling financial crisis. What McCain ultimately chose to do, six weeks before the election, was to suspend his campaign and return to Washington to meet with President Bush and Congressional leaders. But that strategic gamble -- which now takes its place in the annals of political misfires -- came as a result of a somber meeting earlier that day with his economic team at a Hilton hotel in Midtown Manhattan. The attendees included several of the candidate's big donors in the finance industry, a few political advisers and Romney.
''It was an unrelentingly bleak discussion, with the financial guys talking about the world as we know it ending,'' recalls Douglas Holtz-Eakin, who was McCain's senior economic adviser at the time. Another McCain senior staff member, who, like many people I spoke with, would speak only under the condition of anonymity, told me: ''At the time, there wasn't a person on the political team who understood what a credit-default swap was or toxic mortgages or subprime bundling. At one point I asked, 'What do you mean by economic collapse?' And one of them answered, 'It means you won't be able to get a 20-dollar bill out of an A.T.M.' Right after the meeting I called my wife and said, 'Get $30,000 in cash out of the bank today.' It was terrifying and surreal.''
Romney had been an informal adviser, fund-raiser and campaign surrogate for McCain since dropping out of the G.O.P. race seven months earlier. Well before the meltdown of the markets that summer, the former Massachusetts governor and Bain Capital C.E.O. had emphasized his vast experience in the private sector. As he told one campaign audience in Sarasota, Fla., in January 2008: ''I will not need briefings on how the economy works. I know how it works. I've been there.''
That day in the Hilton conference room, however, Romney did not distinguish himself as McCain struggled to decide what course he should recommend in Washington. Holtz-Eakin recalls ''nothing specifically'' that Romney had to offer. The other McCain senior staff member is more emphatic: ''The reality is he didn't take command. He wasn't a Marshall-type figure who conveyed an understanding of both business and politics. But the truth is, no one else had any clue what to do, either.'' Then he added, ''There wasn't a single person in the room, including Romney, who had any specific policy recommendation.''
Four years later, Mitt Romney's unsteady campaign performance has yet to convince voters that he is a ''Marshall-type figure'' who can, in his own distinct way, fill the office of the presidency. Only recently has Romney begun to detail the policies he would pursue if elected, as if they were hatched from a few late-night strategy sessions after a string of bad news days rather than from the candidate's core philosophy. The fact that Romney is in charge of his own widely criticized campaign doesn't appear to be especially reassuring to the electorate -- and even so, his campaign tactics reveal only what he would do in order to win, not what he'll do once he has won.
Romney faces an incumbent with his own leadership issues, though Obama has the benefit of surrogates who are deft at ascribing fittingly presidential characteristics to him. One morning in June, I sat in the Chicago mayor's office of Rahm Emanuel, the former White House chief of staff, watching as he emptied a grab bag of leadership adjectives: ''competitive,'' ''disciplined,'' ''resolute.'' Emanuel then bolted out of his chair, saying, ''This'll give you a sense of his mind.'' He led me into a hallway where the walls were festooned with images from the Oval Office. Pointing, the mayor said: ''This is literally his first day as president, 9:30 in the morning. There's nothing on his desk, obviously -- first day. This,'' he then gestured to another framed photograph, ''is me coming back after I'm mayor-elect, sometime in early 2011. You see anything on that desk?''
I didn't. Obama's desk still looked nearly vacant. Emanuel whirled to the other wall and directed my attention to a much earlier photo, featuring himself and another familiar face, seated behind the same desk, which in this shot was ornamented by a riot of Victorian clutter. ''Clinton,'' he grinned. ''Look at the desk. Now mind you, he's got everything arranged. Books are stacked, folders are over here, the coins soldiers gave him here, the pens -- he loved pens -- here. Incredibly creative mind.'' And then pointing back to Obama's spartan desk: ''Incredibly disciplined mind. Both incredible presidents. But their desks, in my view, say something.''
What Mitt Romney's old desks tell us about his ineffable powers of leadership is hard to divine, but through private conversations with Romney's senior strategists over the years, it's clear that they are as genuinely admiring of their candidate's biography as they are inept at selling it to the outside world. Bob White, who worked with Romney at Bain Capital, led his 1994 Senate campaign and later assisted him at the Winter Olympics and in every campaign since, said to me: ''The totality of Mitt's experiences -- starting up a business, taking all that he learned from Bain and applying it to the Olympics where the situation was dire and then moving on to another broken situation in Massachusetts and fixing that as well -- uniquely qualifies him for the challenges of the presidency. Time and time again, Mitt has stepped forward.''
You almost never hear Romney staff members cast their candidate in such a manner. Maybe it's because White's distillation calls to mind a lifelong technocrat who does whatever works rather than a conservative leader who sticks to ''what's right.'' But it's especially rare to hear the candidate or his operation refer to the period of his life when he actually did wrestle daily with both what works and what's right on behalf of his constituents -- the four years by which we can best judge what kind of president Mitt Romney might be. Drawing conclusions from his single term as Massachusetts's chief executive is, obviously, a feat of extrapolation, because the issues that he faced as well as the powers that he wielded hardly measure up to those of the Oval Office. Still, those four years are telling, even more than the campaign's decision not to talk about them.
To the newly elected governor of Massachusetts in January 2003, the commonwealth was a deeply flawed business model requiring sweeping remedies. He went about enacting them in the dispassionate manner of a C.E.O. Romney coaxed three non-Republicans out of the private sector and into cabinet-level positions. In addressing the state's $3 billion deficit, ''Mitt was opposed to an across-the-board cut, so we had to go through the state budget line by line, and that took an incredible amount of time and focus,'' recalls his senior adviser and former chief of staff, Beth Myers. Another former Romney administration official told me that the governor's methodology for analyzing the budget -- ''What's your product line, what are you trying to achieve, whether you're cost-effective in certain areas and whether you're setting your prices right''-- was deliberately Bain-like. Having informed Grover Norquist that he would not be signing a no-taxes pledge, the governor made creative use of various revenue streams -- including raising registry deed fees that had stayed the same for decades and closing corporate tax loopholes that existed only to benefit a handful of firms.
Romney's budget was clever but uncontroversial; the need to address the deficit was universally acknowledged, and Democrats had no appetite for increasing income taxes after having already done so the previous year. As the Massachusetts House minority leader Brad Jones told me, ''The Democratic Legislature quite frankly didn't have to do anything he wanted and could have done whatever it wanted and overridden his vetoes with ease and impunity.'' Closing the deficit, in any event, was the easy part. In Romney's appraisal of the state's financial paradigm, much bolder moves than simple short-term reductions and increases were required. The C.E.O. relished such scenarios: his writings, his marathon policy meetings and his heritage as the son of George Romney, the American Motors Corporation chairman, revealed a fondness for unorthodox ideas.
And so the chief executive sought a complete reorganization of the state's executive branch. He commissioned Bain to map out a dramatic restructuring of the 29 state-university campuses. He proposed a major reduction in the number of lawyer and press-secretary positions in state government, closing or merging several courts and doing away with the state's Turnpike Authority. In a move that would be reprised years later in Wisconsin and Ohio, his administration took dead aim at public-employee pensions. ''First thing we did,'' a senior official recalls, ''was sit down with all the unions, including the state police, and say: 'We have new rules: you guys aren't getting any more money than the revenue growth we're achieving at the state level. Now go home and think about that.' Next thing we said was, 'All these chummy negotiations are over -- here's a list of what we want.' And they looked at the list like we were from Mars.''
But for the most part, the only unconventional ideas that Romney managed to enact were those that he could ratify unilaterally. ''He made significant consolidations in those agencies he directly oversaw, like housing, environment and transportation,'' says Kerry Healey, his former lieutenant governor. ''But higher education is buffeted with various boards and commissions, so we were reduced to working around the edges to achieve our goals. And something like making changes in the pension system, there would have needed to have been a lot of consensus built around it.'' Romney's failure to muster such a consensus had little to do with his party affiliation: other Republican governors in Massachusetts, like Frank Sargent and William Weld, long profited from excellent relations with their Democratic counterparts in the State Legislature. But what Sargent and Weld had that the Bain C.E.O. lacked was experience in forming political alliances and reaching compromises. ''For better or for worse, he hadn't been a creature of the Legislature, and neither was his lieutenant governor,'' says Brad Jones, the minority leader. ''Maybe that's a good thing on the campaign trail, but it makes governing a challenge when you don't have the relationships.''
Several of Romney's initiatives, like higher-education reform -- which would have entailed tuition hikes and severe budget cuts for some schools -- were deeply unpopular. Building grass-roots support was not part of Romney's world experience, and he made almost no effort to enlist the public in his crusade. ''Obviously change is difficult, and for a governor or president, bringing about change is a very different art form from the private sector,'' Michael Widmer, president of the conservative-leaning watchdog group Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation, told me. ''Romney put forward some very positive reforms. But as it turned out, he never really followed up on them in any meaningful way.'' Instead of working with the Democrats on Beacon Hill, Romney decided to recruit a host of Republican challengers to unseat them in 2004. The tactic backfired. ''He ended up losing three seats and a lot of good will in the bargain,'' Widmer said.
Later in his term, the governor would show more adroitness at rallying the public to pressure lawmakers. In 2005 Romney introduced a bill that would become known as Melanie's Law -- named for Melanie Powell, a 13-year-old girl who was killed by a repeat-offense drunken driver -- that imposed strict sentences on those who were convicted of drunken driving multiple times. When a few state representatives who were trial lawyers tried to dilute the bill, he responded with a barnstorming tour that shamed Democrats into restoring nearly all the original language, which Romney then signed into law in October. The next month, Romney successfully fought back against legislators seeking to pass a retroactive capital-gains tax, by inviting about a dozen nonwealthy citizens to a news conference to describe how the new tax bill would upend their lives. ''Melanie's Law and the capital-gains tax are perfect examples of how a governor can succeed,'' the former Democratic House speaker Tom Finneran says. ''I'll give the governor credit for growth. I think he learned as he went along that being governor wasn't like a Bain takeover of a troubled company.''
In a sense, however, that's exactly what being governor was like for Romney. He came in, reimagined the business model, improved the numbers, profited handsomely from the experience and subsequently moved on.
In 2007, I asked Romney when he began to think about running for president. ''It was probably, oh, back when I was with Senator [Bob] Bennett of Utah after the Olympics, when I was governor a couple of years, sometime in 2004,'' he replied. ''He just said to me: 'You know, you don't have to decide if you want to be president. But you do have to decide if you want the option to become president.' '' (Bennett confirmed that he conveyed this in a memo just after George W. Bush's re-election in 2004.)
And so during the final two years of his term, Governor Romney's balance sheet included a new and weighty set of considerations. When the needs of his state coincided with the needs of his national political profile, Romney showed a willingness to accommodate his political adversaries that had not been apparent during the first two years of his governorship. This was particularly evident during the effort to pass a universal health care initiative in Massachusetts in 2005-6. ''It's largely true that in his last two years he focused on two things: the beginning of his run for the presidency and health reform, which was to be his signature achievement and one for which he deserves a significant amount of the credit,'' Widmer told me. With noticeable amusement, David Bowen, a senior staff member for Senator Edward M. Kennedy, who played a key role in the effort, added, ''Everyone thought at the time that Romney's success in forging a bipartisan compromise on health care was actually a thing that he would ultimately run on, not run away from.''
To get the legislation passed, Romney partnered with Kennedy, his former political opponent in the 1994 Senate race. Together they met with Bush's Health and Human Services secretary, Tommy Thompson, during his last day in office in January 2005 and persuaded him to renew a $385 million Medicaid-funding waiver that was crucial to financing the legislation -- and then accompanied Thompson to a going-away party in the building, where Romney and Kennedy performed an ''Odd Couple'' skit that brought down the house. ''I must say, I was favorably impressed with Romney in the meeting,'' another Kennedy staff member recalls. ''I'd seen him in the [1994] Senate debates, and he seemed plastic and about an inch deep -- where in this small meeting he was witty and engaging and working to make it happen.''
Romney became the most vocal proponent of the so-called individual mandate (requiring nearly all residents to purchase insurance on a sliding scale of affordability), which Kennedy and progressive groups initially resisted but later warmed to, without heavy-handed pressure on the governor's part. When a legislative deadlock between the state's two top Democrats, Senate President Robert Travaglini and House Speaker Salvatore DiMasi, in February and March of 2006 threatened to sunder progress, Romney staged unannounced (yet well-publicized) visits to their homes but otherwise left it to Kennedy's more experienced hands to produce a détente between the two leaders.
Once a deal was imminent, the Romney administration staged a photogenic bill-signing ceremony in Faneuil Hall with Senator Kennedy, who flew in from Washington, at the governor's behest. Recalls a longtime associate of Speaker DiMasi, ''There was a sense we had that the event would wind up in a Romney-for-president campaign commercial.''
But the political spreadsheet that directed Mitt Romney to favor one landmark initiative could also dissuade him from favoring another. Among the more remarkable features of Romney's early governorship was his determination to be not only a pro-environment executive but also a leader in the field. To oversee a broad portfolio of issues affecting the environment, Romney appointed Doug Foy, a lifelong environmentalist who had often sued the state in his capacity as C.E.O. of the Conservation Law Foundation. On May 6, 2004, Romney and Foy held a news conference to announce the release of a detailed climate-change action plan. In the plan's cover letter, the governor argued forcefully that meeting the challenges of global warming made good business sense. Rather than demand definitive proof of the human contribution to climate change, the state should pursue a ''no regrets'' policy -- one in which, Romney wrote, ''we can also lead the nation in new energy technologies.'' According to one of a half-dozen environmental officials with whom I spoke (and all of whom insisted on anonymity so they could speak candidly about their experiences), the governor sat through more than 20 hours of briefings on the climate-change plan: ''We went through about 80 measures. He left almost everything in, and the things he took out weren't because they were ideologically off-base but because they weren't well thought out.''
A sentimental subtext underlay his conservationist outlook: his father's company had produced one of the world's first fuel-efficient cars. And when discussing the global dimensions of climate change, the governor displayed a level of humaneness that fellow congregants in his Mormon church often saw but that his current presidential campaign has been at pains to highlight. Two environmental officials recall him saying: ''I think the impacts of this are going to be large. We in the Western world may have the money to work our way out of the problem. But what are poor people in Bangladesh going to do?''
At the same time, bucking conservative orthodoxy carried obvious risks, as Romney knew better than anyone. After all, George Romney's proclamation in 1967 that he had been given a ''brainwashing'' by the military on the progress of the Vietnam War effectively ended his quest for the presidency. ''Being right early is not good in politics,'' Romney would quote his chastened father as saying -- and in turn signaling that the son would not repeat the mistake.
''Have you seen the movie 'Animal House'?'' one of Governor Romney's environmental officials asked me. ''You remember that character who has the angel on one shoulder and the devil on the other, both telling him what to do? Watching Romney, my sense was that he was always inclined to do the right thing on environmental issues. But then there was the devil on the other side. You could almost see it. It was palpable. Clearly, in retrospect, he was weighing what was right for Massachusetts with how it would play nationally.''
Fully a year before unveiling his climate-change plan, Romney agreed to participate in the creation of the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, or RGGI (pronounced ''reggie''), a consortium of nine Northeastern states invited by Gov. George E. Pataki of New York to formulate the nation's first comprehensive cap-and-trade, greenhouse-gas-reduction policy. In a July 21, 2003, letter to Pataki, Romney wrote that ''now is the time to take action toward climate protection.'' He noted that his administration ''has a target of reducing greenhouse gases'' and added that ''I believe that our joint work to create a flexible market-based regional cap-and-trade system could serve as an effective approach to meeting those goals.'' The concept appealed to Romney's penchant for cutting-edge solutions. One of Romney's top officials told me that if the states had been able to finalize an agreement during the first year and a half of Romney's term, ''there's no question he would have signed. No doubt about it.''
But Romney's desire to be bold on climate change wasn't shared by fellow Republicans. Already the Bush administration had backed out of the Kyoto Treaty. In late 2004 and early 2005, the governor began to give speeches to Republican audiences in the conservative early-primary states Iowa and South Carolina. Following these travels, Romney's chief of staff, Beth Myers, who assisted in Romney's bid for governor in 2002, made her presence felt in the RGGI negotiations. As the guardian of Romney's political ambitions, she remained in frequent contact throughout 2004 and 2005 with operatives who formed a Romney political-action committee to raise money for a presidential campaign, according to someone involved in the communications. Later, Myers would become the manager of that campaign. Myers ''hated climate-change from Day 1,'' says one top environmental official who frequently discussed the issue with her. ''It didn't fit her political equation.'' She contacted the other RGGI states and conveyed to them that the governor now had concerns. Romney was insisting on a hard cap. Though there was an economic logic to the idea, introducing a hard cap would have by definition placed a regulation on an otherwise free market. The demand ''came out of nowhere,'' recalls one of Pataki's senior officials. ''There'd been no talk about an allowance cap for the first two years since the conversation started. It looked like a bait and switch. We watched Beth install her own cronies in the negotiations. It wasn't lost on us that Doug Foy was dealing with some major internal strife.''
Foy could see that his boss was struggling to reconcile his predisposition toward RGGI with other considerations. Foy succeeded in persuading the other RGGI states to agree to a nonrigid cap that would come into play if prices went too high. But while his Office of Commonwealth Development was extracting cost offsets in an effort to make RGGI more palatable for Romney, the governor's Office of Economic Development began to work with the defense contractor Raytheon and other businesses to oppose it. Both sides met in Romney's office in December 2005. Though the setting was a Bain-like unemotional inquisition, the ex-C.E.O. seemed only selectively interested in the data. ''He kept saying, in effect, 'Yeah, but you can't guarantee the prices won't go higher,' '' recalls one of the people with knowledge of the meeting. And Renee Fry, who represented the businesses seeking to jettison RGGI, says, ''As we were leaving, he said, 'I've got to think about how this is going to affect jobs.' '' Romney's desire to lead the nation on climate change had vanished from the discussion.
On Dec. 14, 2005, Romney publicly announced two things: that Massachusetts was withdrawing from RGGI and that he would not be seeking a second term as governor. Romney's successor, Deval Patrick, reversed Romney's decision shortly after taking office in January 2007, and Massachusetts has been a RGGI member ever since. Romney's economic concerns turned out to be unwarranted. ''I think the Massachusetts business climate is very strong -- it would be hard to find any damage that was done by RGGI,'' says David Tuerck of the conservative Beacon Hill Institute, which opposed RGGI. In fact, according to a 50-page independent analysis done by four energy experts, RGGI has led to more rather than fewer jobs and an overall net economic benefit.
When I contacted him, Doug Foy chose to put a positive spin on Romney's climate-change odyssey. ''I told him that we were eventually going to land RGGI -- he knew that for a long time -- but he never said, 'You should stop,' '' he told me. ''Even though he never signed it, he allowed it to go on.''
Like RGGI, embryonic-stem-cell research was the kind of breakthrough concept to which Romney was instinctively drawn. The governor learned in the fall of 2004 that the Massachusetts Legislature would be considering a bill the following spring that would permit the cloning of embryos in lab research seeking a cure for diseases like Parkinson's and Alzheimer's. As one Romney senior strategist told me, ''I think the governor was predisposed to be in favor of stem cells.'' But all that changed, Romney would later claim, on the day in November 2004 that he met with two Harvard researchers and thereafter decided not only to oppose embryonic cloning but also to reverse his long-stated support for a woman's right to have an abortion.
The meeting took place at the governor's request. Romney along with Beth Myers and Peter Flaherty, a senior adviser who would later serve as the presidential candidate's liaison to social conservatives, met with Dr. Douglas Melton, co-director of Harvard's Stem Cell Institute, and another Harvard representative. An internationally recognized pioneer in the field who briefed President George W. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney on the subject, Melton has said that having a diabetic child animated his desire to seek a cure through stem-cell research. For nearly a half-hour, Melton explained to Romney and his staff how an embryonic stem cell is derived from a recently fertilized inner cell mass. Melton's institute obtained such material, he told them, from in-vitro-fertilization clinics, where some 400,000 surplus ova sit in freezers, typically to remain indefinitely or to be discarded.
Acquiring these frozen embryos was anything but a casual process, both Harvard guests went on to explain. Each donor would undergo two rounds of informed consent over a period of a month, while Harvard itself insisted upon two separate rounds of ethical review -- a painstaking process that at times frustrated the scientific community. Only a few of the 400,000 surplus embryos ended up being donated to the institute, where they were treated with particular care, like nothing else in the Harvard laboratories.
Romney asked questions throughout the presentation. When Melton began to describe the process of somatic-cell nuclear transfer -- in which a cell from a patient with, say, Parkinson's disease, is transferred into a denucleated egg so as to clone a new ''defective'' embryonic-stem-cell line that can be studied -- the governor interjected, ''Well that, then, is human life.''
What happened after that is disputed. A year and a half later, in June 2006, Romney would tell the journalist Judy Woodruff that the Harvard team displayed a flip attitude at the meeting that completely altered his thinking. ''I sat down with a researcher, and he said, 'Look, you don't have to think about this stem-cell research as a moral issue, because we kill the embryos after 14 days,' '' Romney recounted, explaining to Woodruff why he decided to change his position on abortion. ''And that struck me as he said that. And I thought, Is that the extent to which we've cheapened life . . . that we think about killing embryos without batting an eye? And I recognized that I could no longer stand in the posture of saying, Look, I'm personally opposed, but I'm not gonna change the law. I needed to make it very clear that in my view, we are wrong to accept abortion, other than in cases of rape and incest.''
Romney repeated this story almost verbatim in a National Review profile published in December 2006, adding, ''After the meeting I looked over at Beth Myers, my chief of staff, and we both had exactly the same reaction -- it just hit us hard just how much the sanctity of life had been cheapened by virtue of the Roe v. Wade mentality.'' Peter Flaherty recalls that the governor ''suddenly seemed affected by it at the time -- in body language, and saying something like, 'This is clearly a serious issue.' ''
But the Harvard participants do not recollect Romney showing any concern. On the contrary, they remember Romney saying that he was proud to be governor of a state where such important work was going on. Their first inkling that Romney felt so strongly about what he remembers being said came more than a year later, when he began publicly explaining his new stance on abortion.
Furthermore, Melton vehemently denies that he used the language Romney quoted. ''I did not use the word 'kill,' '' he told me recently. ''I've never used the word 'kill' in relation to this in any conversation with anyone, from elementary-school students to scientists in my laboratory to political leaders with whom I have met to discuss our work. And I wouldn't use the word, because it is not descriptive in any way of the science we do.''
The Boston Globe columnist Gareth Cook, who won a Pulitzer Prize for a series of articles on stem-cell research, has spent time with both Melton and Romney discussing the subject. ''Doug Melton is an incredibly careful person -- he was not at all cavalier about this,'' Cook says. ''Melton has always talked about this the way a lot of biologists do -- that it's not possible to answer the question of what constitutes a human life that should be afforded protections. It's a continuum, and to say that there's a point where life is breathed into something isn't knowable in a scientific way, since you could argue that a skin cell or a sperm cell has the potential to be a human life. He never would have said 'kill.' That's not how he thought about it.''
The meeting ended cordially, with Romney telling the two visitors from Harvard that he would like to stay in touch, though in fact they never communicated again after that day. What happened instead was that Flaherty contacted William Hurlbut, a Stanford bioethicist whose largely untested theory involving altered nuclear transfer -- which uses cells that can't produce a living being rather than embryonic stem cells -- had been the subject of a recent Globe article by Cook. Hurlbut, a strong believer in legally protecting the human status of embryos, agreed to fly to Boston and meet with the governor. Excited by Hurlbut's PowerPoint presentation, Romney exclaimed, according to one aide, ''Why isn't everybody buying into this?'' (''What Hurlbut was floating was just a concept,'' Cook says. ''Obviously I wouldn't have written about it if it were completely impossible or biologically absurd. It's just that nobody's going to do it, because it's just too hard.'') Then Flaherty arranged for a third meeting -- this time with the Rev. Tad Pacholczyk, a Catholic bioethicist and, like Hurlbut, a passionate believer in the human integrity of the embryo.
After these discussions, Flaherty says, ''Mitt wanted to make sure that people had a window into his analysis,'' to explain where he stood. In early 2005, Romney's staff offered an exclusive interview with the governor to a New York Times reporter. The resulting article in The Times, on Feb. 9, disclosed that Romney would oppose the Legislature's embryonic-cloning bill on the grounds that ''there is an ethical boundary that should not be crossed.'' Twelve days later, in a speech to Republicans in Spartanburg, S.C., the Massachusetts governor declared, to great applause, ''Science must respect the sanctity of human life.'' Two weeks after that, Romney wrote an op-ed in The Globe in which he declared, ''Once cloning occurs, a human life is set in motion.'' Finally, in a May 23, 2005, USA Today article that highlighted the presidential hopeful's peculiar status as a Massachusetts Republican, Romney acknowledged to a reporter that ''I'm in a different place'' from his previous commitment not to challenge Roe v. Wade. His evolution on abortion was complete.
But as with his decision to withdraw from RGGI rather than seek to undermine it, Romney's ultimate position on embryonic-stem-cell research seemed to send mixed signals. His amendments to the stem-cell bill would have banned embryonic cloning on the grounds that an embryo constituted human life while at the same time continuing to permit the creation, freezing and eventual destruction of hundreds of thousands of human embryos in I.V.F. clinics, as well as Harvard's acquisition of those embryos for noncloning research. (The Legislature discarded his amendments and passed the bill permitting embryonic cloning, later overriding Romney's veto.) And rather than simply side against Harvard's research on moral grounds, Romney seemed equally determined to show that he had found a better solution than the one offered by the Stem Cell Institute, maintaining in his Globe editorial that ''the greatest successes in stem-cell research to date'' came from Hurlbut's ''promising approach.''
''He displayed an interesting combination of principle and pragmatism,'' Hurlbut recalls. ''Though maybe it's giving me too much credit for the change in his opinion about abortion.''
''Romneys are, by nature, an adventurous breed,'' Mitt Romney proclaimed with no apparent irony in his 2004 book ''Turnaround.'' Today that assertion is hard to square with the author's stiff persona and his risk-averse path to the presidency. But Romney's appetite for boldness marks his governorship, as does his sudden loss of that appetite; and even when policy risk-taking gave way to presidential ambition, perhaps it could be said that Romney was ahead of his time: years before the emergence of the Tea Party, he could see where the Republican Party was headed, and with an audacious turn to the right the Massachusetts governor was there waiting for it.
Should a president-elect Mitt Romney arrive in Washington with the apolitical C.E.O. orientation that he brought to the Massachusetts Statehouse in 2003 -- and with nothing in his record to suggest that he, any more than Obama, can change a political culture ''from the inside'' -- he will almost certainly encounter the same headwinds from the conservative flank of his party that seemed to blow him off course during his term as governor. After four years of Obama, the G.O.P. natives on Capitol Hill are restless. Their dutiful but fidgety optimism was bluntly expressed in a conversation I had with Rep. Raúl Labrador of Idaho, a freshman, an outspoken Tea Party star and, like Romney, a Mormon. ''Everything in Romney's background tells me he knows how to go into an organization that's not working and make it work,'' Labrador told me.
But to Labrador, a Romney presidency could ''make it work'' only by pursuing a resolutely rightward course. He warned: ''If Romney comes in here and feels like he has to capitulate and govern from the middle of the road, not only will it be disheartening: I predict that you will see the conservatives in the House rise up. We've been pretty quiet -- everybody claims we've been rambunctious, but we've been pretty quiet. I think you'll see something different.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GETTY IMAGES AND THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
COLLAGE BY CHRISSIE ABBOTT) (MM26)
The Politician: Melanie's Law, which toughened sentencing for repeat drunken drivers, was one of Romney's early successes as governor in 2005. To his right is Nancy Powell, the mother of Melanie. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL GREENE/ THE BOSTON GLOBE VIA GETTY IMAGES
)
The C.E.O.: Governor Romney ran the state as if it were a corporation, changing the business model and improving the numbers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WENDY MAEDA / THE BOSTON GLOBE VIA GETTY IMAGES)
The Fund-Raiser: Romney greets an Iowa resident before speaking at a Republican Party fund-raiser in Davenport on Oct. 29, 2005. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLIE NEIBERGALL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (MM29)
 The Odd Couple: Governor Romney and Senator Edward M. Kennedy at the 2006 signing ceremony for their state's new health care reform package. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GERRY IMAGES) (MM30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TOXIC ASSETS (77%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (77%); POLITICS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); FUNDRAISING (72%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (69%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); JOHN MCCAIN (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); TED KENNEDY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DAVENPORT, IA, USA (75%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (67%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012



290 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL | HYUNDAI VELOSTER AND VELOSTER TURBO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Relying on Glam Style In a Crowd of Athletes

BYLINE: By JONATHAN SCHULTZ

 BODY:
STANDING in his parents' driveway in Great Barrington, Mass., my girlfriend's cousin, 13, regarded the lustrous gray scarab that appeared before him one morning last summer. ''What do you think?'' I asked. With the dispassion of a Westminster Kennel Club judge, he walked from the creature's rear three-quarter aspect to its profile, then around the nose before returning to the three-quarter.
''It looks a lot faster than it probably is,'' he concluded.
Indeed, the Hyundai Veloster, which began sales in 2011, suggests a predacious Looney Toons castoff. But in the 130-mile drive from my block in Brooklyn to the Berkshires, taking in choppy outer-borough highways and wending two-lane state roads, the hatchback evoked not a bombastic cartoon, but the Tiburon. That coupe, produced by Hyundai in the 1990s and 2000s, had the lines of a kit-car Ferrari and the dynamism of an ox cart.
It is likely that Hyundai knew this about the Veloster. Introducing it at the 2011 Detroit auto show, John Krafcik, chief executive of Hyundai Motor America, said the car could be driven ''at nine-tenths without losing your license.'' Downshifting to maintain 45 miles per hour up a rise in western Massachusetts, as traffic tightened behind me, I merely lost my patience.
What Mr. Krafcik withheld was that those nine-tenths would be difficult to wring from the car's 138-horsepower 1.6-liter 4-cylinder engine. So when Hyundai unveiled the 201-horsepower Veloster Turbo at the 2012 Detroit auto show, a reconciliation between the car's extroverted exterior and rather gutless on-road demeanor seemed plausible.
The packaging of the Turbo suggested as much. Aside from raising the engine's output by 46 percent, Hyundai treated the Veloster to cosmetic upgrades that, pleasingly, rendered the vehicle more carlike than cartoonish.
The Turbo I drove wore side skirts, LEDs beneath its headlights, deepened sculpturing around the fog lamps, 18-inch alloy wheels with polished chrome accents and chrome-tipped twin exhaust pipes recessed above a matte-finish diffuser. There was also a matte-gray paint job, a $1,000 option over the car's $22,725 base price.
Not long ago, such finery was the primary province of supercars. Three cheers for economies of scale.
The nonturbo car is offered with a 6-speed dual-clutch semiautomatic transmission, a $1,250 option over its suggested starting price of $18,225, but that gearbox is not available in the Turbo. It gets a conventional 6-speed automatic, a $1,000 option, which is calibrated for more aggressive driving than the dual-clutch unit.The transmission fitted to both of my test models was the standard 6-speed manual. Derek Joyce, a Hyundai spokesman, said roughly 30 percent of Veloster buyers were opting for the stick shift, outstripping the industry average in the United States of about 7 percent, according to Edmunds.
The sixth gear of the manual unit acts essentially as an overdrive, reducing engine speed to preserve fuel economy on the highway. Beyond horsepower figures or paint jobs, that sixth gear also illuminates a fundamental difference between the two Velosters.
The nonturbo car labors to build speed for overtaking, which might dissuade a driver from probing the car's limits -- all the better to preserve its billboard-worthy highway fuel economy rating of 40 miles per gallon. On the 87 octane gasoline that carried us from Brooklyn to Great Barrington and on to southern Maine, the Veloster returned 37 m.p.g., remarkable considering the mix of roads and our abuse of the air-conditioner.
Under no circumstances, however, should a Turbo equipped with the stick shift be expected to replicate its highway fuel economy rating of 38 m.p.g. (though the around-town estimate of 26 m.p.g. is reasonable enough). For one, a driver regularly drops down a gear or two to muster passing power, causing the engine to spin more furiously and burn more fuel. For another, the Turbo in such moments feels most like a vehicle worth driving.
Peak torque of 195 pound-feet is produced in the Turbo from 1,750 r.p.m. to 4,500 r.p.m., but in the manner of competitors like the 201-horsepower Honda Civic Si and the 180-horsepower Scion tC, the car is most alive at the rowdy end of the tachometer. The base car builds speed adequately enough; Motor Trend observed a run from zero to 60 m.p.h. in 8.8 seconds. Though the Turbo accomplished the feat in a respectable if not blistering 6.9 seconds, it goads the driver to keep pushing, with much of its power band left to be exploited above 60 m.p.h.
The license loss to which Mr. Krafcik alluded in Detroit is infinitely more plausible in the Turbo.
Were the thrills more readily accessible, the Turbo would make a raucous alternative to the Civic Si, which is benchmarked by automakers and beloved by aftermarket tuners for its exploitable power band, poise and relative stealth. The Veloster buyer cares not for stealth, but it is fair to expect a small car like the Turbo, which can cost $26,000 when fully optioned, to nail the fundamentals that cheaper cars like the tC and Kia Forte Koup manage without much fuss.
For example, fitted with all-season tires, both the Turbo and nonturbo did not carve New England curves so much as skitter around them, and the cars' noses tended to dive into corners.
Where the Veloster outpaces its competitors, offering glimpses of the Korean automaker that so spectacularly improved its products worldwide over the last five years, is in the cabin. Standard on both cars are a seven-inch multimedia screen, Bluetooth, audio controls on the tilt-telescoping steering wheel and nicely contrasting dash materials.
Stubbornly, however, Hyundai does not allow the $2,000 Tech package, consisting of automatically adjusting headlights, backup warning sensors and special wheels, to be ordered independently of the $2,000 Style package, with its panoramic glass roof and various interior and exterior enhancements. The Turbo includes many of those options, but you have to buy the $2,500 Ultimate package to get the panoramic roof, navigation, rear camera and automatic headlights.
Had the Veloster reached showrooms two years ago, it might have been welcomed as a belligerent Ziggy Stardust sent to kick glitter in the eyes of the tC, Forte and, in the Turbo's case, the Civic Si and Volkswagen GTI. A 24-year-old might have regarded it as a PlayStation avatar rendered real. In 2012 came a bumper crop of excellent new sport compacts. Glam design cannot compensate for middling performance or value.
At the Turbo's end of the market, a 252-horsepower 2013 Ford Focus ST, priced from $24,495, may be the most entertaining new front-drive car in America. The ''front'' qualifier is important, because within $1,000 are respectably equipped versions of the rear-drive 2013 Scion FR-S and its stepsibling, the Subaru BRZ, and Hyundai's own Genesis 2.0T. These are carving tools that require higher-octane gas, have lower fuel-economy ratings and negligible rear seats, but could humble a Turbo with their chassis balance alone.
Irrespective of age or psychographics, consumers value a product that meets or exceeds their perception of it. By that standard, the Veloster is simply not as fast, frugal or fun as it looks.
INSIDE TRACK: A space oddity that fell from orbit.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SHARP: 2013 Veloster Turbo (AU1)
 BOOST: The Turbo, with 201 horses, has the quickness that the nonturbo model lacks. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA) (AU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR MODELS (89%); DOGS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (67%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (61%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (92%)

TICKER: HYUD (LSE) (92%); 005380 (KSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



291 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 7216 words

HEADLINE: Exile on Park Avenue

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS

 BODY:
In February of 2011, Jamie Dimon, the chief executive officer of JPMorgan Chase, approached the podium of one of the ballrooms at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel in Key Biscayne, Fla., where 300 senior executives from around the world were attending the bank's annual off-site conference. By that time, the cold fear of the financial crisis was cordoned off in the near-distant past, replaced by a dawning recognition that the ensuing changes in business -- the comparatively trifling risk limits, the dwindling bonuses, the elevated stress levels -- might actually be permanent. That day, Dimon took the opportunity, according to a bank employee in attendance, to try to inspire his team, to rouse them from the industrywide sense of malaise. Yes, there were challenges, Dimon said, but it was the job of leadership to be strong. They should be prudent, but step up -- be bold. He looked out into the audience, where Ina Drew, the 54-year-old chief investment officer, was sitting at one of the tables. ''Ina,'' he said, singling her out, ''is bold.'' 
Perhaps by now when bankers hear that kind of public praise, they simultaneously hear a distant clanging, a dim alarm that provokes an undercurrent of anxiety. It seems inevitable that an acknowledgment of such star power will eventually lead to a fall, a big one, and one year and three months later, Drew succumbed. Her team had been bold, so bold that along with Dimon, she had become the public face attached to a $6 billion mistake, a trading loss so startling in size that it dominated the business press, put Dimon on the defensive and cost Drew her job. Over and over again, online and on television, in stories about the loss, the same corporate headshot appeared: a woman wearing a hot pink bouclé jacket, showing a smile so faint it was almost frank in its discomfort.
Drew never craved public recognition, which is one reason, up until the trading error, almost no one outside of Wall Street had heard of her. Her longstanding anonymity is astonishing only in retrospect: All told, she invested nearly $350 billion for JPMorgan Chase. Drew had her hand on a major economic lever and was one of the key figures whose judgment Dimon relied on in keeping the bank steady through the financial crisis. Drew was part of the team that helped establish him as a model of restraint at a time when other bankers offered only tongue-tied defenses of their reckless behavior. Now she was responsible for the traders who had made Dimon look as fallible as everyone else, and at the very moment when he was trying, once again, to assure government regulators that banks could manage themselves, that bankers could risk-proof their balance sheets.
The $6 billion blunder has turned out to be no more than a minor ding on JPMorgan Chase's mighty balance sheet. The company's stock has rebounded strongly, and the financial world has moved on to other obsessions. But for Ina Drew, this is a scorching moment of failure from which it could be hard to recover. In 30 years in the banking industry, she ascended to a level of power and wealth that few women have known. Her rise tells an unlikely story of what it takes to succeed as an interloper in the Wall Street boys' club. Her fall is a murkier tale about how executives are coping with the growing public scrutiny and skepticism about what exactly banks are doing with all our money. Five years ago, would anyone have cared about a large trading loss incurred by a strong, well-capitalized bank? When the business press, including this paper, first started digging into the debacle, it seemed possible that Dimon himself could go down. He didn't, of course, but the conversation reflects how precarious power in banking has become. Nobody understands that better now than Ina Drew. But who exactly was she? She has declined to speak to the media, and various investigations are continuing that will reveal a more complete picture of the story. But interviews with dozens of friends and former colleagues over the last three months begin to fill in the picture of a woman whose career traced a period of dramatic change on Wall Street.
James Lee, who eventually became one of the biggest dealmakers on Wall Street, started out at Chemical Bank in New York sitting next to Ina Drew. He remembers talking to a client on the phone one day, trying to answer some questions about a deal the bank was proposing. ''So I told the client what I thought, and I'm answering and answering, and I say, 'So what do you think?' '' Lee says. But there was no response. Lee looked at the phone and then looked around. Drew, a foot away, was in the middle of a different phone conversation, but her eyes were on him, and she was shaking her head back and forth -- no, that's not right -- and waving her hand to show she had something in it: the phone jack. ''She heard part of what I was saying, which was obviously incorrect,'' Lee says. ''She literally pulled the plug on me.''
It was 1983, and Drew, just 26, had been in the business for only three years, but she proved herself quickly and was already running a small group of traders. A graduate of Johns Hopkins with a master's degree in international relations from Columbia University, Drew had hoped for a job in corporate lending, the clubby, relationship-based business that was the track to the prestigious commercial-banking group. But corporate lending did not open its doors to a young woman from New Jersey with no M.B.A. After 23 interviews, Drew landed a decidedly less glamorous job, on the trading floor of the Bank of Tokyo Trust. Thrown in with no training, she cried every day, she used to tell junior people at JPMorgan Chase. But then one day, it clicked: Not only did she get it, she was good at it.
In 1981, she moved to Chemical Bank, then considered a step up -- barely. ''They used to call it comical bank,'' Tom Block, who was in charge of government relations there, recalls. Nothing about the bank at the time would have suggested that over the next 30 years it would merge and acquire its way to become the megabank known as JPMorgan Chase.
By the mid-1980s, Drew was working directly under an economist named Petros K. Sabatacakis, the head of Chemical Bank's global treasury department. Among the department's tasks was managing interest-rate risk, ensuring that the bank did not find itself locked into paying out more in interest on the money it borrowed -- bonds and deposits -- than it was receiving in interest-rate payments from its loans. In the mid-1980s, to hedge against falling interest rates, the group poured money into $3 billion worth of government-backed mortgage securities that grew more valuable when their call on interest rates proved right. Still, the group was considered a sleepy backwater until Sabatacakis turned their attention a few years later to banking's other major risk: credit default. The bank was most vulnerable to its borrowers defaulting in a recession; in a recession, the Federal Reserve generally lowers interest rates to increase borrowing and spending. Sabatacakis determined they should continue to buy those securities whose value would rise in a recessionary environment.''It was a trader's mentality,'' says Glenn Havlicek, a trader who worked under Drew for 22 years. ''It may seem elemental, but at the time, the idea of mixing a trading solution and a credit-crisis solution -- it was in its awkward infancy.''
''What was crazy about it,'' Sabatacakis says, ''was that by the time we were finished, we were making more than 50 percent of the bank's profits.'' This kind of risk-balancing would continue to define Drew's career -- only the dollar amounts kept growing, and the instruments used to manage risk became more and more complex.
Drew was something of an unusual figure on Wall Street and not easily categorized. She was known for her small, girlish voice but could let loose with profanity when angered. She was the daughter of a Newark lawyer and had a reputation as a tough adversary but practically blushed whenever she spoke about her husband, a periodontist who was her high-school sweetheart and played on the Johns Hopkins basketball team. Tall, with expensive blond hair, she dressed impeccably for the office, favoring classic Chanel suits and Manolo Blahnik shoes, as well as a blinding emerald-cut diamond ring; but she and her husband never left the affluent but unremarkable suburban neighborhood in Short Hills, N.J., where they settled more than 20 years ago.
One of the rare women to rise steadily into the management ranks on Wall Street, Drew stood out, sometimes awkwardly so, in a mostly male work environment. Havlicek recalls hearing her address a roomful of 200 male traders not long after Chemical merged with Manufacturers Hanover in 1991. ''I didn't plan any of this for my career,'' she told the traders. ''For God's sake, I was captain of the twirling team in high school.'' Her words were met with silence. ''There were dozens of guys that were just cringing for her,'' Havlicek says. ''She didn't fit their picture of what a senior trader should look like.'' For Drew, there were a lot of moments like that: guys rolling their eyes, muttering under their breath about something she just said. ''She never seemed to care,'' Havlicek says. ''She just kept doing what she was doing.''
In the early 1980s, Chemical was making a push to hire women as traders, but that did not mean the workplace was particularly enlightened. Dina Dublon, who was one of Drew's closest colleagues, joined the bank the same month that Drew did. ''To say the environment was not welcoming to women is an understatement,'' says Dublon, who rose through the ranks alongside Drew and retired in 2004. Dublon sat next to Drew in the early days, and the women went through packs of cigarettes every day, a cloud of smoke hovering around their desks like a barrier to the barrage of tasteless jokes.
Many women quit; others responded to advances with polite refusals. Drew tended to deflect with brusque, direct humor. She was once summoned to the office on a Saturday for what she thought was a business meeting, Havlicek said, only to find the colleague who called her in had something more intimate in mind. ''I don't know exactly what she said, but knowing Ina, it would have been something like, 'You're out of your mind, I'm going home,' '' Havlicek said. ''In the future, she laughed about it.''
The traditional narrative of the woman who made it on Wall Street in the 1980s and 1990s usually entails great feats of the superwoman variety -- the female executive who is phoning in directives to the office while she is in labor, the working mother who whips up, as Morgan Stanley's Zoe Cruz once did, a batch of cookies at 4 a.m. for the bake sale, and then arrives at work by 5:30. But once in the office, family matters would often be hidden. Stephanie Newby, who was chief operating officer of Global Equities at JPMorgan in 1997, says she made sure never to have pictures of her young children at the office or even to mention them. ''You never wanted there to be an excuse for why you couldn't get ahead,'' Newby says.
Drew, who has a son and a daughter, wasn't making excuses for her career or her family. She called her children regularly when they got home from school, even if that sometimes meant interrupting a meeting. She taped their drawings to her office wall and took them to work during school vacations, her son glued to his Game Boy as she engaged in global finance. Traders have early work hours, but Drew was particularly insistent about making it home for dinner with her family; for most of the 1990s, she showed up for work at 7 a.m. but left at 4:30 p.m. ''Ina was tough about it,'' Dublon says. ''If one of her bosses tried to schedule a meeting after 4:30, Ina would say, 'You can have your meeting, but I will not be there.' It was not easy to do. It played into stereotypes some of us women climbing the ladder were not willing to confront.''
Wall Street is not exactly known as a warm place to work, but Drew had an unusually personal approach that engendered loyalty from her employees; even some employees who lost their jobs during various rounds of layoffs spoke of her glowingly. A trader who once worked under her at JPMorgan Chase asked me for a guarantee of anonymity before making this uncontroversial claim: ''I love her. I love her to death.'' She was unfailingly prompt for the 7:30 a.m. meeting she ran; she was considered so knowledgeable that traders from other groups would show up for that meeting to gauge her insights into the market. She personally picked baby gifts for low-ranking traders. ''She was like a Sheryl Sandberg figure to those of us in her group,'' said one former female trader, referring to Facebook's chief operating officer. ''She had that mystique.'' I called two other women who worked for Drew and they said the same three words -- ''She was phenomenal'' -- before hanging up. Eight other former bosses, including two former chief executives and one chairman, all described her as plain-spoken and trustworthy, an outstanding risk manager and analytical thinker.
William Harrison, who was chairman of JPMorgan Chase until 2006, recalls her fondly as someone who was ''balanced and respected'' but who didn't make a big deal of being a senior woman in the workplace. In fact, in the mid-1990s, Drew started serving on diversity committees, challenging the bank to increase the number of women in management; she spent more than a decade on the board of the NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund, a group that was involved in prominent sexual-discrimination and sexual-harassment lawsuits. ''She and Dina Dublon -- those were women I looked up to,'' says Amy Butte, a former chief financial officer of the New York Stock Exchange, who started out as an analyst at Merrill Lynch. ''They set a standard for how women on Wall Street should treat each other.'' And stand up for themselves.
When the bank was trying to retain female talent after one merger, she refused to accept a position with less responsibility. ''I remember being in her office, and there was Ina, pounding her desk, saying, 'The last time I checked, I had breasts, too!' '' Dublon says.
Drew was ambitious but never sought to acquire the kind of experience that would have groomed her for the role of chief executive. Her focus was part of the reason her bosses trusted her; she clearly was not angling for their job. While Dina Dublon took on new roles in different parts of the bank, eventually becoming chief financial officer, Drew stayed, for the most part, in the same role in which she knew she had unparalleled expertise. ''She didn't veer into areas where she was not an expert,'' Dublon says. ''Her confidence is totally built on knowledge.''
If Drew was good at what she did, says Lesley Daniels Webster, who managed market risk for the bank until 2005, that was partly because she toiled in the ranks for so long. ''Women in business often grow from the bottom up, learning all the complicated ins and outs rather than coming in at a higher level,'' Daniels Webster says. ''Nobody plucked her out and said, 'Oh, she looks and sounds just like me at this age, so I'm going to have her move from division to division every three years so she can build up her resume.' No, women succeed by building a steady string of successes.''
In the 1970s, trading bonds was a fairly straightforward business, and anyone with enough hustle could get on a trading floor; but by the 1980s, because of technology and globalization, bonds became more complex, and as the money got bigger, the competition got fiercer. Banks competed to develop investment products that would give them an edge and traders started relying on complex algorithms to beat the market. By the early 2000s, ''tech-savvy investors had come to dominate Wall Street, helped by theoretical breakthroughs in the applications of mathematics to financial markets,'' Scott Patterson wrote in ''The Quants,'' a book about the bankers who wield those tools. These days, banks compete for the top physics and applied math Ph.D.'s from around the world.
Drew did not have a business degree, much less the skills of a quant, and yet, as banking evolved and her bank kept merging with other banks, Drew survived. ''When you merge, you get to see the other side's business, and hers always looked better,'' said Don Layton, the chief executive of Freddie Mac, who oversaw Drew when Chemical merged with Manufacturers Hanover in 1991.
Drew made it through yet another merger, in 2000, when Chase merged with JPMorgan. Every merger is painful, entailing massive layoffs, factionalism and blatant power grabs. But the mutual disregard in this merger was especially high. JPMorgan had a sterling pedigree, and its bankers perceived themselves as innovators of gourmet financial products like structured derivatives. They experienced the merger as a comedown, as if they were Dean & Deluca and they had just been bought by Stop and Shop. They made little effort to conceal their disdain.
Drew's deals essentially turned on one key question she seemed to answer correctly more often than most (or at least when it mattered most): Would interest rates go up or down? That insight seemed valuable but hardly cutting edge to her new colleagues. ''She was like the idiot savant of 'I'm long' or 'I'm short,' '' says one former JPMorgan employee, summing up how some of his colleagues perceived her success.
Soon after the banks merged, Drew and her team sat in a conference room with their counterparts from JPMorgan, a group that included a banker named Patrik Edsparr, and talked about their respective backgrounds. Drew's team had all graduated from well-regarded schools, but unlike Edsparr's group, they did not have Ph.D.'s in applied math; they weren't M.I.T. graduates or physicists from Caltech. They weren't quants. ''You could just feel in the room that there was this sense emanating from Patrick and his team that we were going to be lunch,'' Havlicek says. Edsparr essentially told Drew that her way of investing -- based on bottom-up economic analysis of markets, as opposed to abstract mathematical models -- was on its way out. Both stayed after the merger. Drew continued to run the treasury department, managing its safer trades, while Edsparr was put in charge of the proprietary-trading desk, where the bank traded its own funds for profit. Until Edsparr left in 2008, the tension between them was obvious. When Edsparr disagreed with one of Drew's opinions in a meeting with several other high-level executives, Drew shot back, ''I don't care what you think.'' (Edsparr declined to comment.)
No one achieves Drew's level of power on Wall Street without fighting for turf, and Drew knew how to protect her territory. ''Ina had this ability to tell senior people, in a very nice way, without actually saying it, that the question they had asked her about her business was a very foolish question,'' says a former JPMorgan Chase executive who went head to head with Drew more than a few times. ''I admired it in a perverse way.''
In 2004, Drew survived yet another change at the bank, a result of a merger with Bank One that the following year made Jamie Dimon the chief executive. Dimon not only kept Drew on; he also put her on his operating committee, which was made up of the people who answered directly to him. ''It's a complicated business, and she knew her stuff,'' says Dimon, who was aware of her success, and trusted her increasingly over time. ''If I had a bad idea, she'd tell me it was a bad idea. She had her opinion. She was strong and a team player and very ethical.''
As the head of the chief investment office and the manager of the bank's investment portfolio, Drew had direct control over more money than most players on Wall Street -- on the level of the top asset managers in the country, including BlackRock and Pimco. In that role, Drew had access to information that might have been useful to investment bankers at JPMorgan Chase and their clients; some information she wasn't at liberty to share, but some fell in a gray area, and about that, too, she could be tight-lipped. What she might have seen as discretion, colleagues in other parts of the bank perceived as insularity. ''She did not welcome anyone questioning any part of her business or her team,'' recalls a former senior banker at JPMorgan Chase. He said a general lack of transparency about risk management, among other things, ''drove her partners at the retail bank and the investment bank crazy.'' Drew's defenders say that she shared information with the people she felt needed to know, but that those inquires may well have been power grabs.
Drew's bosses heard the complaints about her over the years, but they generally dismissed them as mere jealous griping. ''She oversaw a lot of money,'' one former boss said. ''There are always rivalries at that level. And anyone who disagrees with you? They must be stupid.''
It is surprising how much time you can spend talking to bankers without ever hearing the word ''money.'' Bankers talk about yield and credit spreads and compensation and P.& L., and what they talk about, maybe more than any of those things, is risk, without which there can be no gain. Risk is the oxygen of investment, and the ability to take a lot of risk is a signifier of prestige. Drew had some of the most generous risk limits at the bank. ''They say that managing risk is as much as anything about managing your emotions,'' Havlicek says. ''Ina was unafraid. She was a natural.''
Some of that confidence may have come from her faith in her longstanding team, many of whom had been with her from the Chemical days. They managed risk by buying and selling mostly safe assets like U.S. Treasury bonds and high-quality mortgages; their value would generally rise with falling interest rates and vice versa. But in 2006, she and Dimon together decided that her group should branch into more complex products to hedge the expanding, ever-more-complex holdings of the bank. To help build international range for her group and to diversify her positions in the market, Drew hired a team that would trade foreign bonds and corporate bonds -- and would have the quantitative skills to trade more complex and riskier credit derivatives.
To lead the effort, Drew hired Achilles Macris, who had worked at the bank Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein. Originally from Greece, he was a charming but volatile figure with a reputation for brilliance. He in turn hired Javier Martin-Artajo, an opinionated trader from Spain, and Bruno Iksil, a quiet, bookish man from France, both known to have strong quantitative backgrounds.
The year 2008 was a time most bankers would like to forget; for Drew, it was one of the highlights of her career. Starting in late 2007, her group piled money into secure, long-term government-backed bonds, close to $200 billion worth. Those soared in value as it became clear that interest rates would have to drop and every other product on the market looked like a bad bet. After the financial collapse, the group reviewed some collateralized loan obligations, financial products that were deemed toxic, and bought the safest aspects of those products. Those purchases were vastly riskier than Treasuries -- some argued too risky for an operation intended to hedge risk -- but the spending spree of the chief investment office ultimately reaped billions in profit for the bank. ''Going into the crisis, the C.I.O. positioned us well for the turmoil ahead,'' Dimon says. But it also served a larger purpose, stabilizing the market when few others had the ability to do so. ''They took risk with those collateralized loan obligations,'' Mark Williams, who teaches finance at Boston University, says. ''They provided an important service.''
Despite its success, Drew's group -- the bond traders in New York and the credit group based mostly in London -- clashed. Temperament accounted for some of the battles. Althea Duersten, a trader who had worked with Drew for more than a decade, ran the group in New York. She ''was so risk averse,'' says one former trader, ''that even in retrospect, knowing everything we know, she still may have been too risk averse.'' As for Macris, said another former executive in the chief investment office, ''He was a gunslinger -- he was more on the 'I love this trade, put it on huge' side.'' (Most of the people interviewed about Drew and the chief investment office asked not to be identified because they were not authorized to speak or feared professional repercussions.)
Drew had created within her own group the same dynamic that had vexed her since the merger with JPMorgan: one group of traders, who mostly handled straightforward assets, felt insulted and underestimated by another group, who prided themselves on the sophistication of their quantitative skills and conveyed their disdain openly in videoconference calls. ''New York hated London,'' says one former trader who worked in New York. ''They got to take more risk, so they got to make more money.''
The worst of the fighting occurred when Drew, ill with Lyme disease for most of 2010, was out of the office. When she came back, Duersten had just turned 60 and retired in January 2011. Macris was shocked when Drew brought in Irene Tse, a hedge-fund recruit, to replace Duersten, rather than making him the sole deputy. ''He was devastated, he was outraged,'' says the bank employee who says he heard this from Macris himself. Macris started telling people in the European office of the investment bank that Drew did not understand the business, according to two people. He also told them that he technically answered to Drew, but that he really reported to Dimon. (Through a lawyer, Macris declined to comment; and JPMorgan says Macris reported to Drew.) He started openly challenging Drew's opinion in front of others. She would take it stoically while the two of them were in public; later, via videoconference or in person, ''she would let him have it,'' says the bank employee, who observed one such confrontation. ''And she could be tough. I mean, talking about severing key body parts.''
The trouble that eventually ended Drew's career at the bank started out, the bank argues, as a precaution, the same kind of precaution, in fact, that set her on a successful career path at Chemical Bank: a major hedge against the possibility of a credit crisis.
Back in 2007, the bank asked the London office to execute a credit derivative hedge that would protect the bank in the event of a major crisis. (Some credit derivatives are, essentially, a bet on an outcome, like a corporation or government defaulting on their financial obligations.) The hedge not only protected the bank but also made money in 2008 when the markets collapsed.
Following the crisis, the team in London, including Iksil, continued to expand the position. (A credit trader's position can be thought of as a collection of bets on outcomes.) Iksil's position was eventually so large that he became known as the London Whale before his identity was confirmed. At some point in December of last year, a former executive from the group says, Drew checked in with Macris and Martin-Artajo about the position while the two men were in New York. They answered, but the executive, who understood the trade, remembers thinking that they did not give as full an answer as they could have. ''I think they glossed over details to the point where Ina knew the product, the size they were trading, but she did not know what the true P.& L.'' -- profit and loss -- ''impact could possibly be in a stressful scenario,'' he said. She was asking the right questions, he said, but did not seem to be picking up on what was not being said. Why didn't he say anything? The usual reasons: less than total certainty, resistance to jumping rank, faith in Iksil's judgment. Plus, he liked the guy.
In any case, there were several layers of people at the bank whose job it was to evaluate risk. Being the risk manager at a bank, of course, is like being the chaperon at the dance: your authority is more than matched by the desire of others to subvert it. ''The trader in the world of Wall Street is a lot more important than the person with a whip and a chair attempting to keep the traders from blowing up,'' says Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. To try to mitigate that very human dynamic, banks also rely on a variety of statistical models, including those known as ''value at risk'' models, which theoretically provide bankers with a certain degree of probability about how much they could stand to lose on any given day under adverse circumstances. Those V.A.R. models did little to help bankers when the unforeseeable happened in 2008, which is why they are generally viewed with some skepticism these days. Sometimes the models miss key information, sometimes the people who use them miss what the models are telling them and sometimes traders manage to work around them.
A former executive said he warned Dimon for years that the quality of risk control in the chief investment office was not transparent enough, compared with that in the investment bank; Drew brushed him off, and Dimon told him, he says, essentially, to ''mind my own business.'' ''Honestly, I don't care what second-guessers say in life,'' Dimon told me when asked about the warnings. ''If anyone in the company knew, they should have said something. No one came to us beforehand and said we have a problem we should be looking at.''
A review of the risk limits at the chief investment office was moving slowly along in 2011. By late November, Drew realized she needed a more experienced risk officer than the one in place, Peter Weiland, who had been there for several years. A well-liked if mild-mannered person, Weiland was up against some very strong personalities, many of whom had superior quantitative skills. (Weiland did not respond to requests for comment.) But it was February before she hired Irvin Goldman, a former Credit Suisse First Boston executive, as the chief risk officer of the unit. It is possible that Drew, who had a reputation as an excellent risk manager, did not feel an urgency to fill the job of the risk officer. ''She and her team had a great track record,'' a senior executive said. ''We all thought they had it under control.''
Later, when the trade collapsed, it was reported that Goldman was the brother-in-law of Barry Zubrow, an operating committee member at the bank. This was interpreted as further proof of the shoddy risk standards at the unit. Goldman, however, was a classic hire for Drew: he was a longtime professional friend, a trusted ally with whom she had talked shop for 20 years.
Goldman started pushing forward a review of the risk limits, which generally needed more specificity. One serious defect in the risk evaluation of Iksil's position was that its limit was folded into the aggregate risk of the unit's entire portfolio. In other words, Iksil could continue to increase the position without triggering alarms. Even more problematic, a new value-at-risk model was implemented in January, which, unknown to the team ultimately allowed for even more leeway, creating a false sense of security.
In December, Drew and other senior managers determined that the unit should reduce the overall exposure to risk, mostly because of soon-to-be-implemented regulations imposing more stringent capital requirements. London came up with a strategy that Drew approved although she left it to that office to determine the execution. As an interim measure, they would hedge the hedge, rather than flood the small market for that type of security and take a loss. The main position was essentially a bearish bet on a bond index; the hedge was essentially a bullish bet on a similar but different index. The end result, however, made the total position even bigger.
Iksil's colleagues liked him, but he was not popular among some Wall Street dealers who brokered his trades. The London group had a reputation for using the weight of the bank to muscle the rest of the market and for being a little arrogant. ''They thought they were geniuses,'' said a hedge-fund manager on the other side of the trade that ultimately brought Iksil down. ''They just had access to cheaper capital than everyone else, because they worked at JPMorgan,'' that manager said. ''It's sort of like race cars -- everyone else is in a Camry, and you're in Porsche, and you think you're the best driver.''
Disgruntled dealers might be more likely to gossip, and in March, Martin-Artajo, always a little nervous, got positively jittery, said the bank employee. The dealers on the street were talking, he told his bosses; they knew too much. Knowledge, for the hedge-fund managers who buy from the dealers, was power. Martin-Artajo had reason to feel nervous: the hedge-fund managers had figured out that JPMorgan's position had grown so large that it was dominating the market, which meant there were few options if the bank wanted to unwind the position. This gave the few buyers Iksil could turn to tremendous negotiating power.
By the third week of March, after several days of losses, Drew was concerned enough to order her traders to stop trading the portfolio. At the same time, she started holding daily teleconferences with London to try to manage the position. Martin-Artajo's worst fears were realized on April 6, when The Wall Street Journal ran an article with the headline: '' 'London Whale' Rattles Debt Market.'' The whale was Iksil, whose position was so large, the article said, that traders on the street had given him that nickname.
Tension at the bank escalated, and Dimon, who was traveling, started checking in with Drew. She was concerned about the position but also seemed a little bit riled up: The hedge funds were trying to squeeze the bank, she told Dimon, but the bank was O.K. They didn't seriously consider the possibility that they might have to unwind the position quickly, which would render them vulnerable to a market that would take advantage of their desperation. Most of the key players in the unit thought the same thing: this was a long-term position, and no one had the firepower, the capital, to force mighty JPMorgan Chase to fold.
Drew and her team had backed themselves into a corner. Then, on April 13, during the first-quarter-earnings call, Dimon slipped. An analyst asked about the ''tempest in the teapot nature'' of the stories in the press, and Dimon, as if enamored of the phrase, repeated it back: ''It's a complete tempest in a teapot,'' he said. It was quotable, unlike the bland corporate-speak in which he continued. It gave the story legs. And if his assessment turned out not to be true, it would make Dimon look like either a dissembler or a manager with a weak grasp of the facts.
The trade started losing even more money. A war-room mentality took over, moving from the chief investment office to more and more players at the bank. A team flew to London, working around the clock and making so many demands that one of the men running databases, who had a heart attack in the past, quit, afraid the stress would literally kill him. Macris and Martin-Artajo were conducting frequent video conferences with New York. Martin-Artajo labored nervously through long-winded explanations, with Macris occasionally turning angrily on him. Drew struggled to maintain composure, although occasionally, a tone of voice revealed just how tense the situation was becoming. ''That's not what I asked for,'' she snapped at Macris, and another time barked, ''I need it now!''
When other crises hit the bank, Drew had seemed, by all accounts, her most alive and alert. But in this instance, she seemed unable to step back and look at the big picture. Faith in Drew's ability to handle the crisis started to seep away. In May, John Hogan, the bank's chief risk officer, took over management of the position. It was officially out of Drew's hands. Drew still seemed to think the damage could be contained; the famously cleareyed risk manager started to sound like someone in denial. To everyone else, it became apparent that the bank was going to have to make a public disclosure about the loss. This would be a huge embarrassment, an admission of failure just as Dimon was trying to convince regulators and Congress that banks could manage themselves, if only they were careful enough and had the right, prudent people in place. It meant, in the near term, that the stock would plummet.
The mood around Drew got darker. Word spread around the building that some members of the operating committee were urging Dimon to fire her. ''Ina had to have known,'' the bank employee said. ''Everyone knew, and she was very well connected. This was not a matter of your colleagues not having your back. This was them sticking the knife in it.''
Even Dimon was sickened by the wash of rage toward Drew. During a crisis, ''some people will act like children and most will rise to the occasion,'' he said. ''To those who attacked Ina, I said: 'This is Ina. This was always Ina. What are you talking about?' ''
By the second week in May, the stress had taken a toll. A colleague saw Drew walking around the executive floor, her mascara smeared. A slight tremor in her hand left over from her illness seemed worse, a physical symbol of her emotional state. Although she still came to work dressed impeccably, she had lost weight and looked somber, almost shut down. The week that the bank decided to make a public disclosure, 20 senior people gathered in a meeting room on the 47th floor. Everyone went around the room and spoke about what they had found out and what still needed to be learned. After about 45 minutes, with the meeting drawing to a close, Drew, uncharacteristically, still had not said a word. Finally, John Hogan, the chief risk officer for the bank, asked: ''Does anyone need anything? Need some help?'' Drew raised her hand. ''I need help,'' she said. It was a white flag.
On Mother's Day, she drafted her resignation letter. By Monday afternoon, she was gone.
In July, the bank restated its earnings, announcing concerns that traders at the unit had not revealed ''the full amount of the losses in the portfolio during the first quarter,'' mismarking, in their favor, the numbers that would indicate their theoretical losses or gains at the end of the day. (The Wall Street Journal reported sources close to the investigation saying that Martin-Artajo had prodded Iksil, whom he supervised, to raise the valuation of his position's holdings at the end of the day.) Greg Campbell, Martin-Artajo's lawyer, says, speaking of his client, that there was ''no direct or indirect attempt by him to conceal losses.'' Iksil declined to comment. Whether or not the numbers were mismarked, it was baffling that the size of the position and its obvious vulnerability did not warrant a closer look, says Peter Tchir, a consultant to hedge funds and other institutions. No one has been charged with fraud, but investigations are continuing.
Maybe Drew still believes -- as Macris does, according to people at the bank -- that the position could have worked out given enough time. Maybe if she had asked the right questions sooner, her traders would have been forced to clarify or she would have sensed danger before it went out of control. Many systems failed and perhaps, too, her judgment.
Drew was someone known for her grasp of the big picture, for internalizing historical trends and economic cycles to the point where her gut instincts were almost always right. She was also someone known for having a personal touch. But in this instance, she seemed incapable of grasping the complicated, interlocking human dynamics that can't be measured by reassuring models -- the idea that a position could be leaked, that the press might bear down, that the regulatory environment could compound all those problems.
For a few years, one of Drew's friends had been talking to her about retiring. For that friend, it was yet another matter of risk calculation: If she was going to retire soon enough anyway, her friend advised, do it while she was still on top, before time stopped being on her side. Wait long enough, and someone else might decide for her. Or something might go wrong, as things do.
Even Drew's friends do not feel that she could have stayed in her job, especially in the current regulatory environment. She was, after all, in charge of the unit that lost $6 billion. ''She had to go,'' one friend said, ''and she would have seen that.'' One Wall Street headhunter said: ''That's what they pay you so much money for. To take the fall when things go wrong.''
Drew forfeited two years' worth of compensation. But she was also very wealthy and was allowed to keep stock upon her resignation. There are critics who wonder why Dimon has not surrendered some of his own compensation.
Drew spent the first weeks after she left JPMorgan doing what she always did: heading into Manhattan, to the corner of Park Avenue and 47th Street. Instead of entering 270 Park, however, she went to 277 Park, directly across the street. Many large companies have offices known to some as elephant graveyards, where retired chief executives are given offices and a secretary. As she was being debriefed by company lawyers, Drew was given a temporary office in JPMorgan Chase's elephant graveyard, which happened to be in the old Chemical building, where Drew spent so many years on the ascent. She was surprised and pained that Dimon didn't call her right away. ''I'm sure it's for legal reasons,'' she told a friend. She described herself as ''devastated.''
After a few weeks, the lawyers' questions slowed down. And Dimon went out of his way to publicly praise Drew and the work she did. ''Let me just say a word about Ina Drew,'' he said in the middle of the second-quarter-earnings call in July. ''I have enormous respect for Ina as a professional and as a person; she has made some incredible contributions to this company.'' She has not been accused of malfeasance, and as the investigations wear on, the bank still seems comfortable defending her integrity.
For Drew, Dimon's comments marked a turning point: at least she knew -- and the world knew -- that Dimon did not consider her a bad actor. She started planning a trip to Eastern Europe. Her friends thought she sounded better, but seemed physically weaker.
Drew's old friend Glenn Havlicek, who left the bank in 2005, now spends much of his time in Palo Alto at a company called GLMX, building a high-tech trading platform. When the news broke, he thought a lot about Drew and those days when they first starting hedging interest-rate risks, a move that seemed so innovative at the time but so simple now, compared with the modern multibillion-dollar deals that twist and turn on themselves. The two spoke several times, most recently right before Drew left for her trip. It pained him to hear Drew, whom he recalls as one of the toughest, funniest, warmest women he knows, sounding so defeated. ''You know, Ina,'' he said, ''sometimes I think I'd give my right arm to go back to those days at Chemical, you know?''
''Yeah,'' Drew said to him quietly. ''I do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The JPMorgan Chase headquarters (below) and the building where Ina Drew was given an office after leaving the bank (top). (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTAA FELBER) (MM32-MM33)
Ina Drew in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID YELLEN) (MM35)
 Jamie Dimon, chairman of JPMorgan Chase, after testifying before the Senate Banking Committee on June 13 in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAREN BLEIER/AFP/GETTY IMAGES) (MM38) CHART: The Players (MM37) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (95%); RITZ CARLTON HOTEL CO LLC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (95%); JPM (LSE) (95%); 8634 (TSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2012



292 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: Ye Olde Partisanship Is Nothing New

BYLINE: ALBERT R. HUNT


HIGHLIGHT: Think the partisanship in the American political system is bad now? A generation ago it was even more pronounced and pessimistic. 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - An American political system marked by partisanship and polarization engenders despair from both Republicans and Democrats.
Senator Olympia Snowe of Maine, one of the few congressional Republicans who comfortably works with members of the other party, decided to retire last year lamenting "the sensible center has disappeared from American politics." 
Kent Conrad, a North Dakota Democrat who heads the Senate Budget Committee, said he realized it was "time for me to leave" when a senior colleague told him, "Your problem, Conrad, is you're too solutions-oriented. You've never understood this is political theater.'"
This is a periodic refrain. A generation ago it was even more pronounced and pessimistic, as I describe in my latest column.
Jimmy Carter was president. With his legislative agenda stalled, he faced a
challenge within his own party, a relentlessly hostile opposition Republican Party, a sluggish economy and runaway inflation. In the summer of 1979 the president gave a speech on America's "crisis of confidence." It often is labeled the "malaise" speech, though Carter never used that word.
Four months later, Iranian radicals stormed the U.S. Embassy in Tehran and held 52 Americans hostage for more than a year.
This exacerbated the despair, coming as it did on the heels of the American defeat in Vietnam. 
"The last time we got involved with a two-bit country we lost 50,000 men," lamented one of Washington's wise men, the late Harry McPherson, who had been counsel to President Lyndon Johnson. "Now we were involved with another one, and there was nothing we could do about it."
Another of the presidential wise men, Lloyd Cutler, then counsel to
Mr. Carter, wrote an article for Foreign Affairs suggesting that our
political system was broken and America should consider changing to a
parliamentary system.
Ronald Reagan was elected, he proved to be a forceful president, and talk about altering the system diminished.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); POLITICS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); MEN (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); BUDGETS (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%) partisanship; Carter, Jimmy; Conrad, Kent; Snowe, Olympia; United States Politics and Government; Democratic Party; Republican Party; United States; Page Two

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Republican Party

PERSON: OLYMPIA SNOWE (90%); KENT CONRAD (90%); JIMMY CARTER (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%) Carter, Jimmy; Conrad, Kent; Snowe, Olympia

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (53%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); VIET NAM (67%); IRAN (53%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



293 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Venezuelans Line Up Before Dawn to Vote in Midtown

BYLINE: JULIE TURKEWITZ


HIGHLIGHT: Over two thousand expatriates voted at the Venezuelan Consulate in the country's presidential race between Hugo Ch&#225;vez and Henrique Capriles Radonski, who is considered Mr. Ch&#225;vez's first serious challenger. 

 BODY:
Alejandro Fandiño awoke at 3 a.m. on Sunday and drove from his home in Dover, N.J., to the Venezuelan Consulate in New York, hoping to be first in line to vote in Venezuela's presidential election.
Mr. Fandiño, 26, who arrived with his mother, stepfather, sister and an aunt, waited for two and a half hours in the cold, damp autumnal darkness before the polls opened. He was the first in line, yet just before he went inside to vote for his candidate, Henrique Capriles Radonski, he ceded his spot to a woman from Caracas, Venezuela, named María.
She said that she had flown 14 hours from Geneva so she could vote in New York and that her return flight left in 45 minutes.
They were among many Venezuelan expatriates who took part in the election. Mr. Capriles, a state governor, had been seen as the first serious challenger to the longtime incumbent, Hugo Chávez, who came to power in 1998 but faced mounting criticism over high murder rates and persistent food and energy shortages. Mr. Chávez was declared the winner late Sunday. 
In February, before Mr. Capriles, who had campaigned as a moderate alternative to the left-wing policies of Mr. Chávez, won a critical primary that united the opposition, there were only 56,000 Venezuelans registered to vote abroad. Today, the number is 100,495, according to the Council of the Americas, an educational and economic development organization.
According to the consulate in New York, some 3,500 people are registered to vote there - more than three times as many as those who voted in the 2006 election. The sidewalk outside the consulate, at 51st Street and Madison Avenue, was jammed by 5:15 a.m. The consulate said that 2,487 people had voted by the end of day.
Voters walked from their homes in Midtown, drove in from Vermont and flew in from Europe. Venezuelan election law requires that all voting be done in person with voters dipping thumbs in black ink to verify their identity.
"It brings hope," said Mr. Fandiño, a flight attendant, who added that he, like others, had been awakened from a deep political apathy. "It brings a lot of beautiful things to the country, it brings a lot of excitement. Because I'll tell you, a government cannot be in power for so long. Fourteen years? That's not democracy."
Mr. Fandiño, who grew up in the rainy city of San Cristóbal, Venezuela, in what he described as a middle-class family, said he had never voted before. He moved to the United States as a teenager, prompted, he said, by rising violence and declining economic opportunity. Another aunt, who ran a pharmacy, was robbed several times and assaulted. And, he added, a teenage cousin was kidnapped and killed about a decade ago.
By 11:30 a.m., the line of Venezuelans snaked down East 51st Street, curving onto Madison Avenue and then twisting onto East 52nd Street. Many of the voters were students from middle-class and wealthy class families, and they rattled off stories of so-called express kidnappings - in which people are abducted and forced to make purchases or take money out of A.T.M.'s.
Aymara León, a medical technologist who lives in Vorhees, N.J., said she voted for Mr. Chávez in his first campaign, did not vote at all in 2006, and was now firmly for Mr. Capriles.
"I voted for him in 1998 because he was the change," she said of Mr. Chávez, speaking in Spanish. "There was a lot of corruption, he was a young guy, very sensitive, he wasn't from the same government we'd had, but he's turned bad now, power has sickened him."
The Venezuelan community in New York, and in the United States over all, has grown significantly since Mr. Chávez took power, and those who live abroad tend to be from economically mobile families who can afford to move.
Despite election rules that prohibit any campaigning within 650 feet of the consulate, dozens of voters chanted slogans and wore the red, blue and gold baseball caps that had become the trademark of the Capriles campaign.
Directly across the street, a family of four who are supporters of Mr. Chávez calmly made their case for the president.
"Over all we have seen that what he has said, he has done," said Ramiro Villafane, 27, a human resources consultant who lives in Corona, Queens. "He has built houses, he pretty much democratized the health system for all citizens in the country."
His father, also named Ramiro Villafane, was a businessman in Venezuela and now does building maintenance in Queens. He said that many of those voting against Mr. Chávez in New York were college students who had benefited from the education subsidies the president had pushed through.
Mr. Fandiño, after he voted, said he would go home with his family to watch election coverage while his mother made arepas, a traditional Venezuelan cornmeal cake, in this case stuffed with cheese, ham and eggs.
"My mom was actually thinking about doing a paella," said Mr. Fandiño, "and I was like, 'What do you think you are, Spanish?' I'm like 'Make some arepas!' "

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CRIME RATES (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); FAMILY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); ELECTION LAW (72%); MURDER (67%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); LIBERALISM (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); STEPPARENTS (57%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (52%) Capriles Radonski, Henrique; Chavez, Hugo; Voting and Voters; Venezuela

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS (54%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (91%) Capriles Radonski, Henrique; Chavez, Hugo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



294 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: For Both Campaigns, Time to Fine-Tune Their Messages

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The debate, events in the Middle East and the better-than-expected jobs numbers on Friday are forcing the two campaigns to adjust to a new reality in the final month before Election Day. 

 BODY:
 Presidential candidates win when they adapt. And that is exactly whatMitt Romney andPresident Obama are each trying to do. 
 The debate last Wednesday, events in the Middle East and the better-than-expected jobs report on Friday are forcing the two campaigns to adjust to a new reality in the final month before Election Day. Neither can simply follow its playbook and expect to succeed. 
 Here is a look at how the dynamics have shifted, and how the candidates are expected to react in the week ahead: 
 UNEMPLOYMENT For more than a year, Mr. Romney's most consistent economic argument was a simple one: unemployment had stubbornly remained above 8 percent for Mr. Obama's entire presidency. That is a firing offense, Mr. Romney said again and again.
"We've had 43 straight months with unemployment above 8 percent," Mr. Romney said in his closing statement at the debate on Wednesday.
Now, though, Mr. Romney will have to adjust his stump speech and his ads. The drop in unemployment to 7.8 percent robs him of the simple argument he has been making and will require a new line of attack.
Mr. Romney's initial attempt to adjust his message was to question the statistic. Speaking at an event in Virginia on Friday, he said that people who "just drop out altogether" from the work force had artificially lowered the rate.
But that technical explanation is not a rallying cry. So Mr. Romney has seized on a slightly different jobs message that does not dwell so much on the current unemployment rate. The new approach will be on display in rallies this week.
"There were fewer new jobs created this month than last month," Mr. Romney said in Abingdon, Va. "We don't have to stay on the path we've been on. We can do better."
 DEBATE TACTICS For Mr. Obama, the new reality was created moments after the debate ended on Wednesday night. His lackluster performance slowed his momentum and raised questions about his strategy.
For Mr. Obama's campaign, the question is how to adapt. Senior strategists on Thursday hinted strongly that Mr. Obama would be much more aggressive in his next debate - an approach he has already begun taking at rallies in the last several days.
Campaign advisers say Vice PresidentJoseph R. Biden Jr. will reinforce that shift in his debate with RepresentativePaul D. Ryan on Thursday. And the campaign's allies have already begun calling Mr. Romney a serial liar - a message that will continue in ads this week.
A new video released by Mr. Obama's campaign on Sunday is an example of the new strategy. Called "Cameras," the video argues that Mr. Romney's debate performance was a series of lies that distorted his record.
But the biggest challenge for Mr. Obama's campaign may be how to respond if polls this week show that his campaign has lost the momentum it seemed to have at the end of September.
 LIBYA AND THE MIDEAST Both campaigns have long argued that the economy is the biggest issue of the campaign. But the killing of the American ambassador to Libya, as well as the broader instability in the Middle East, has changed that dynamic a bit.
Mr. Romney appears ready to adjust his message by seizing on the Libya situation to question the president's judgment and leadership. He plans to deliver a foreign policy speech on Monday at the Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Va.
He clearly hopes to put Mr. Obama on the defensive over the attacks on the diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya. The question is whether he can turn that argument into a broader indictment of the president's foreign policy.
For Mr. Obama, the overseas events also present the need to adapt. His campaign will need to find answers for the situation in Libya and the Middle East while more aggressively making the wider case for his leadership abroad.

        
After a Weak Jobs Report, Romney Goes on the Attack
        
Jobs Numbers Prompt Obama to Account for Anemic Recovery
        
On Medicare, Obama Plays Offense
        
Before Candidates Debate, Their Lawyers Do
        
An Ocean Away, but Still Shadowing His Competition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); POLITICS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (72%) barack obama; economy; mitt romney; Presidential Election of 2012; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; United States Economy; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%) MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



295 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: On Fund-Raising Tour, Obama Admits Poor Debate Showing

BYLINE: HELENE COOPER


HIGHLIGHT: The president acknowledged before a star-studded fund-raiser on Sunday night that he may have flubbed the face-to-face standoff with Mitt Romney last week. 

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES - President Obama joined the chorus of critics who have been slamming his debate performance, acknowledging on Sunday night before a star-studded fund-raiser that he may have flubbed the face-to-face standoff with Mitt Romney last week.
Appearing at the Nokia Theater after a concert where Stevie Wonder, Earth Wind and Fire, Jennifer Hudson, Katy Perry and Jon Bon Jovi performed, Mr. Obama complimented the entertainers for their flawless presentations. Then, he added, "I can't always say the same." 
The joke at his own expense comes as Mr. Obama and his campaign continue to try to recover from the debate. The president, seeking to add to his already strong fund-raising totals last month, exhorted wealthy and staunchly Democratic donors to continue their support, painting a picture of an economy in the United States that is making a comeback.
"On Friday we found out the unemployment rate has fallen from the height of 10 percent to 7.8 percent, the lowest since I took office," Mr. Obama said, to cheers. "Manufacturing is coming back."
Mr. Obama is on a two-day fund-raising swing in California, a state he has visited only recently to raise money for Democratic coffers. At a posh party at the home of the Hollywood mogul Jeffrey Katzenberg, Mr. Obama, joined by former President Bill Clinton, mingled with a small group of wealthy donors, ostensibly to thank them, campaign aides said, for all the money they've given this election cycle.

Then it was on to the Nokia Theater. From there, the president headed to a $25,000 per person party for 150 supporters held at Wolfgang Puck's WP24 in the Ritz Carlton. On Monday, Mr. Obama will do the same, this time in San Francisco.
Still stinging from the president's lackluster showing in the debate, the Obama campaign is beginning this week with a full frontal assault on Mr. Romney, who is due to deliver a foreign policy speech at the Virginia Military Institute on Monday.
Aboard Air Force One en route to California, a campaign spokeswoman, Jennifer Psaki, ridiculed Mr. Romney's foreign policy experience. "We are not going to be lectured by someone who's been an unmitigated disaster on foreign policy every time he sticks his toe in the foreign policy waters," Ms. Psaki said, referring to Mr. Romney's European trip this summer, which received poor reviews both at home and abroad.
But the Obama campaign is clearly nervous about the next presidential debate, which is scheduled for next week in Long Island. Mr. Obama will hole up in Williamsburg, Va., this weekend for debate preparation, aides said, and Ms. Psaki even joked that a childhood friend of the president's from Punahou School in Hawaii, Mike Ramos, who was along for the ride on Air Force One on Sunday, was actually on the plane to act as Mr. Obama's new debate coach. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); CAUCUSES (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (66%); ARMED FORCES (66%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; California; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JON BON JOVI (56%); JEFFREY KATZENBERG (50%); WOLFGANG PUCK (50%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



296 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2230 words

HEADLINE: Toe to Toe

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney has regained the initiative, but will he be able to follow through? 

 BODY:
For the past year, conservative and Republican groups have spent more than$138 million in a concerted attempt to turn voters against Barack Obama.
The big dog in the effort to drive up Obama's negative job approval ratings, the pro-Romney super PAC Restore Our Future, has invested $82.5 million in independent expenditures, mostly for television ads. Restore Our Future hired Larry McCarthy, the media consultant who achieved both recognition and infamy for producing the Willie Horton commercial in 1988. Restore Our Future's hope: to do to Obama what McCarthy did to Michael Dukakis.
So far in the campaign, the right has outspent the left on independent advertising by just over 3 to 1.
Obama's conservative adversaries have had plenty to work with. Median household income has steadily declined, and, until October's employment report was released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics on Friday, unemployment had remained above 8 percent for the first 44 months of Obama's presidency. Since Obama's November 2008 victory, in fact, the labor force participation rate - the percentage of adults actually working - has fallen from 65.8 percent to 63.6 percent, a 2.2 point drop. In other words, a growing number of men and women have dropped out of the workforce altogether.
Despite this abundance of liabilities, Obama's job approval rating over the past year has gone up, not down. By most measures, the massive anti-Obama television, radio and Internet campaign has been a bust.
Romney's rising poll numbers in the aftermath of the debate on Oct. 3 actually reveal the relative failure of Romney's general election advertising. Millions of dollars in ads couldn't do what one effective debate performance - and a dismal showing by the president - did. By Oct. 6, Romney trailed Obama nationally by only 1.4 points, 47 to 48.4.
No one knows how the interaction of the two remaining presidential debates and the final four weeks of advertising and campaigning will play out, but extensive data suggest that the anti-Obama independent expenditure campaign has faltered in its effort to fatally discredit the president. As of Oct. 6, RealClearPolitics was still projecting a 303-235 Electoral College victory for Obama, although some of the polling data R.C.P. has to work with was collected before the debate and does not fully reflect the dramatic changes afterward.
The survey data on Obama's job favorability tell an interesting story. A full year ago, the final three NBC/Wall Street Journal surveys of 2011 - conducted in August, October and November - found that more voters held unfavorable views of Obama's job performance, 51 percent, than positive views, 44 percent, a net 7 point negative rating.
The most recent NBC/WSJ poll, released the day before the debate, was conducted by Republican Bill McInturff and Democrat Peter Hart and found that this month, after the millions spent by such conservative groups as American Crossroads, Restore Our Future and Americans for Prosperity, Obama's job approval ratings had actually improved to a net positive 49-48, an 8-point gain since the end of 2011.
The same pattern of improvement in Obama's job approval ratings over the past year shows up in the New York Times/CBS polls, the Washington Post/ABC surveys and Gallup.
In an interview, Jonathan Collegio, spokesman for two Republican organizations, the super PAC American Crossroads and Crossroads GPS, an affiliated 501(c)(4) issue advocacy organization (which together have spent over $32 million attacking Obama), contended that the Gallup tracking poll following Obama's job approval ratings had shown a relatively consistent negative tilt until the conventions this summer.
Collegio noted that after Tampa and Charlotte, "there has been some pro-Obama movement. The question is whether an outside group could create or stop the momentum Obama has had since the convention. That's a very good question."
Carl Forti is involved in almost every aspect of the independent expenditure anti-Obama campaign as the founder of the Romney super PAC Restore Our Future, the political director of American Crossroads and a consultant to Crossroads GPS. He disputed the accuracy of NBC, Gallup and other national surveys.
"I'm seeing different numbers," Forti said in a phone interview. After I sent him some of the national data, he replied in an email: "I think it's fair to say that the numbers I'm seeing don't match the national numbers." Forti told me that he cannot "share internal poll data."
In contrast, officials of Priorities USA - the pro-Obama super PAC that has spend $36.2 million attacking Romney - were more than willing to provide evidence of the effectiveness of their ads.
Before the debate, Brennan Bilberry, the research director for Priorities USA, sent me an internal memo from earlier in the summer that includes data from surveys by two Democratic polling firms - Garin-Hart-Yang Research and the Global Strategy Group - of 3,800 voters in Colorado, Florida, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Virginia. According to the memo, these surveys found that:
In all five of these swing states, more voters have an unfavorable view of Mitt Romney than a favorable one. On average, Romney's favorable rating across these states is 36 percent favorable and 43 percent unfavorable.
Obama led Mitt Romney in these 5 swing states by 48-42. In addition, half the voters surveyed said that Obama was the best candidate to "stand up for the middle class," compared to 31 percent who thought Romney was.
To determine how effective the Priorities USA ads have been, the pollsters compared media markets where the ads ran to markets where the ads did not run. In the "Priorities markets," Obama had a 49-41 lead over Romney compared to a 46-43 lead in "non-Priorities markets." Romney had a net 9 point negative rating, 35 favorable to 44 unfavorable, in the Priorities markets, compared to a negative five point rating in non-Priorities markets, 37-42. Obama had an 11 point advantage in the Priorities markets when voters were asked which candidate "is honest and someone you can trust," compared to a 5 point advantage in the non-Priorities markets.
Bilberry also emailed the results of a number of public polls that he felt bolstered Priorities' case:
A USA Today survey from July 8, for example, found that "Obama is the clear winner in the ad wars. Among swing-state voters who say the ads have changed their minds about a candidate, rather than just confirmed what they already thought, 76 percent now support the president, vs. 16 percent favoring Romney."
On July 17, ABC News reported that a Priorities USA ad, "Stage," is the "ad Romney should fear the most."
The commercial is narrated by Mike Earnest, who worked at a paper plant acquired by Bain Capital. He was told to build a 30-foot stage. A few days later, Bain officials used the stage to announce the closing of the plant. "Mitt Romney made over $100 million by shutting down our plant and devastated our lives. Turns out when we build that stage it was like building our own coffin, and it just makes me sick," Earnest says at the end.
The one-minute spot, made by the super PAC supporting President Obama, Priorities USA Action, already has more than 2 million hits on YouTube, more than 10 times any other super PAC ad.
It is difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of television advertising, especially political ads. Ace Metrix, Inc., a non-partisan television analytics firm, sells a technique it has developed to quantify the effectiveness of such ads.
Jonathan Symonds, executive vice president of Ace, described the firm's method in an email to The Times. The company collects every political ad with national implications and sends them all out online to panels of viewers made up of 30 percent Republicans, 30 percent Democrats and 40 percent independents. The panelists rate the ads on persuasiveness and watchability on a broad scale designed to improve the results, a score from 1 to 950.
Presidential ads score well below ads for commercial products, 403 to 531. The highest scoring political ad to date was the Priorities USA Stage spot, which got a 562 rating.
Ace Metrix, at the request of The Times, provided average ratings for five groups, three of them conservative - Americans for Prosperity, American Crossroads and Restore Our Future - and two of them liberal - Priorities USA Action and Move On. The findings:
Americans for Prosperity, a 501(c)4 tax exempt advocacy group founded by David and Charles Koch, the owners of Koch Industries, held a decisive lead, followed by Priorities USA, American Crossroads and Moveon.org. Restore Our Future, the biggest spender, scored at the bottom.
After Romney's success in the first presidential debate, the numbers may shift, but toward the end of last weekthe averaging of the personal favorability-unfavorability ratings of the two candidates put together by RealClearPolitics continued to give Obama a strong advantage, plus 5.4 points (51.6 to 46.2), compared to Romney's negative 1.2 points (47-48.2).
It's hard to determine the reasons for the slim payoff the pro-Romney forces have gotten in return for their huge investment. At the Denver debate, Romney made a concerted effort to present a more compassionate face and distance himself from earlier gaffes and it was much more effective than ads attacking the president.
One Republican active in the presidential campaign argued that negative campaigning can weaken an incumbent, but that the "the deal can only be closed" by a "quality challenger." The source - who insisted on anonymity because he did not want to be quoted criticizing his party - pointed to the 2010 Senate races in Colorado and Nevada where an onslaught of ads undermined the stature of the Democratic incumbents, Michael Bennett and Harry Reid, respectively. In both cases, the Democrats still won "because the Republicans running against them were lousy candidates."
According to a Republican media specialist who requested anonymity because he does not want to damage future client prospects, "Romney has a Little Lord Fauntleroy quality. He's Richie Rich. People enjoy taking down the top dog."
At this stage in the campaign, Priorities USA has successfully identified Romney's point of vulnerability and made use of a relatively smaller bank account to stick the knife in. (At the time of the most recent filings, Priorities USA, the pro-Obama super PAC, had $4.8 million cash on hand as of Aug. 31; American Crossroads had $32 million; and Restore Our Future had $6.3 million.) The anti-Obama groups have tried multiple avenues of attack - welfare, deficits, slow growth, cutting Medicaid - but none have gained the kind of traction a challenger needs to bring an incumbent president to his knees.
With the benefit of momentum gained from the first debate, the Romney campaign and its conservative allies have four weeks left to capitalize on Obama's vulnerabilities. Obama may have assisted his adversaries with the diffidence and lack of affect he displayed in Denver about the plight of American workers. No matter what happens, this probing of Obama's weaknesses will continue.
The Oct. 5 Bureau of Labor report showing that unemployment had dropped below 8 percent to 7.8 percent is, of course, a huge break for Obama, although whether it came soon enough is impossible to say right now. Imagine, though, if after the dismal debate on Wednesday, the jobs report had been more of the same.
In terms of advertising, the jobs report undermines a central element of the theme being used against Obama. On Oct. 2, American Crossroads had announced an $11 million television buy of anti-Obama commercials beginning with one called "Actually Happened." The now out-of-date spot declares, that "this is what the jobless rate actually is: 8.1 percent."
Obama post-debate ads dispute Romney's claims during the Denver debate, a clear sign that the president's strategists believe they have to slow the challenger's momentum right now. In "How Can We Trust Romney?" the moderator asks
Why won't Romney level with us about his tax plan which gives the wealthy huge new tax breaks? Because according to experts he'd have to raise taxes on the middle class or increase the deficit to pay for it. If we can't trust him here how could we ever trust him here?
"Here" is accompanied by a photograph of the Oval Office.
A second Obama ad, "Mitt Romney Is Not Telling the Truth," repeats the theme: 
Mitt Romney didn't tell the truth about his tax plan, his plan for Americans with pre-existing conditions, his Medicare plan, nor the president's Medicare plan. Why would Romney not tell the truth about what he'd do as president? Because his real plans would hurt the middle class.
In large part, the contest over the next four weeks will be a struggle to stay on the offensive. We won't know until Nov. 6 whether the debate marked a decisive turning point, but it has definitely put the president on the defensive and opened up some running room for Romney - a patch of daylight he and his allied super PACs and 501(c)4s have not seen for months.
 Thomas B. Edsall, a professor of journalism at Columbia University, is the author of the book "The Age of Austerity: How Scarcity Will Remake American Politics," which was published earlier this year. 

        
Cool Hand Barry
        
Ordinary Lies, Damn Lies and the Debates
        
The Electoral Art of War
        
The Welfare Gambit
        
Battle of the Placards

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (76%); STATISTICS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%) 501(c)4s; Barack Obama; Mitt Romney; political advertising; presidential debates; super Pacs; Forti, Carl; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2012; American Crossroads; Priorities USA; Restore Our Future

COMPANY: FORBES INC (52%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%) American Crossroads; Priorities USA; Restore Our Future

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (92%) Forti, Carl; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



297 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: 'Mad Men' Era Women: Their Tale

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

 BODY:
Though you couldn't tell it from the delighted expressions of the women they're dancing with, the men at the Christmas office party are real stiffs. Sure, they're tall, dark and kind of handsome, if your tastes run to buttoned-down, Scotch-scented swagger.
But let's face it, they're so much alike they could have rolled off an assembly line. They might as well be made of cardboard. Wait a minute. They are made of cardboard.
It seems fitting, as well as economical, that the male extras in the disarming new stage adaptation of Rona Jaffe's ''Best of Everything'' should be giant paper dolls. That's how guys often looked to the hopeful secretaries in the 1950s Manhattan of Jaffe's best-selling novel of a half-century ago: flat, unbending, interchangeable and, alas, an essential possession if you wanted to keep up with the other girls.
What with the cultural ascendancy of ''Mad Men,'' and recent Broadway revivals of ''Promises, Promises'' and ''How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying,'' we haven't lacked of late for vintage reminders of sexism in the office. But Jaffe's 1958 novel told the story from a gimlet-eyed female perspective that today seems less quaint than you might have expected.
When I heard that ''The Best of Everything'' was being made into a work of downtown theater, at Here through Oct. 20, I expected an over-the-top camp fest, replete with female impersonators of all genders. Hadn't the luscious 1959 movie version featured Joan Crawford as a loveless publishing boss and the mannequin deluxe Suzy Parker as an obsessive, man-stalking actress?
To my surprised pleasure, the 95WordsPerMinute production of ''The Best of Everything,'' adapted and directed by Julie Kramer, is neither a delirious sendup nor a mordant, finger-wagging deconstruction. It's a respectful, hysteria-free, streamlined (at 90 minutes) and appealingly modest effort that lets Jaffe's working girls speak for themselves.
What they have to say isn't, in some ways, all that different from what the women of ''Sex and the City'' and even Lena Dunham's ''Girls'' would be saying decades later. (In an interview in The New York Times with Ruth La Ferla in 2005, Jaffe described ''Best'' as '' 'Sex and the City' without the vibrators.'')
Like the more contemporary women of ''Sex and the City,'' Jaffe's female characters perceive an unfathomable gender gap dividing them from those perplexing but necessary beings called men. This is true even of her independent-minded heroine, Caroline, who rises quickly from the typing pool at Shalimar Publishing and to whom everyone always seems to be saying, with more astonishment than admiration, ''You're so ambitious.''
Ms. Kramer, who developed her adaptation with Amy Wilson (who also plays the Joan Crawford part here), is working with a mostly female cast, led with brisk expertise and visible intelligence by Sarah Wilson as Caroline. (There are exactly two men, Jordan Geiger and Tom O'Keefe, in the ensemble, and Mr. O'Keefe wittily embodies four separate love interests.)
The cast members are kept on a naturalistic rein that's relaxed enough to allow for the occasional loopy comic flourish. They wear Daniel Urlie's confining period costumes as if they put them on every morning. None of them are allowed to condescend to their characters, even when they're swooning with envy over a best friend's engagement ring, speculating on a future in a shared double bed or gossiping cattily about interoffice affairs.
That's, you know, affffaaairrs. Jaffe's original novel was notoriously straightforward about sex, from messy foreplay to messier aftermath (including abortions), and its abuses by men in power, which more or less meant all men in those days. The more lurid moments are presented here with neither a wink nor heavy breathing.
A calm lucidity, both amused and a tad sorrowful, prevails in all aspects of the production. Lauren Helpern's single multiplatform set and Graham Kindred's lighting suggest the workplace as a sort of sociological laboratory.
There are a few antic touches in addition to the cardboard dancing partners: a toy-size model of an ocean liner to evoke Caroline's lost love, a couple of musical interludes (including a torchy number performed by Hayley Treider as the obsessive actress) and a sly, inspired dream sequence that involves an exchange of headwear between a man and a woman. There is also, of course, a 1950s soundtrack, in which period vocalists like Jo Stafford and Doris Day sing of love, loss and matrimony.
But this production doesn't call deliberate attention to these elements. The whole show is refreshingly free of the ''aren't-we-clever'' self-consciousness that often accompanies such excursions into pop-culture past.
''The Best of Everything'' is part of Here's Sublet Series, which allows artists to develop and perform work, at a discount. So don't expect high gloss from this production. The lack of it may in fact be a blessing.
For there is a welcome humility at work here, which in turn creates a feeling of unvarnished transparency. This approach gently and divertingly reminds us that while Jaffe's popular novel may not have been a major work of art (and she never claimed it was), it focused a clear and abidingly useful gaze on women caught in a moment in time that isn't as distant as you might suppose.
The Best of Everything
Adapted and directed by Julie Kramer, based on the book by Rona Jaffe; developed with Amy Wilson; sets by Lauren Helpern; lighting by Graham Kindred; costumes by Daniel Urlie; sound by Jill B C Du Boff ; production stage manager, Katharine Whitney; general manger, Leah Michalos; associate producer, Holly Rosen Fink. Presented by Hyde Park & Lafayette and 95WordsPerMinute. At Here, 145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street, South Village; (212) 352-3101; here.org. Through Oct. 20. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes.
WITH: Jordan Geiger (Eddie), Sas Goldberg (Brenda), Molly Lloyd (Mary Agnes), Tom O'Keefe (Mike Rice/Shalimar/David/Ronnie), Alicia Sable (April), Hayley Treider (Gregg), Amy Wilson (Miss Farrow) and Sarah Wilson (Caroline).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Sarah Wilson, Alicia Sable and Amy Wilson in ''The Best of Everything,'' based on Rona Jaffe's 1958 novel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (88%); CHRISTMAS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (75%); DRAMA LITERATURE (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); FILM (69%); BESTSELLERS (68%); INTERVIEWS (67%); THEATER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



298 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: A Tokyo University Looks to Foreign Students to Raise Its Profile

BYLINE: By MIKI TANIKAWA

 BODY:
TOKYO -- As other Asian powers rise and Japan becomes less of a player on the world stage, the University of Tokyo is trying to strengthen its reputation as a globally relevant institute of higher learning.
Prospective students have long needed strong Japanese-language skills to do well at the university, which was founded 135 years ago, but that is beginning to change with the introduction of an undergraduate degree program taught in English.
The program, PEAK, for Programs in English at Komaba (Komaba being the name of the campus in Tokyo), is the university's first four-year undergraduate curriculum where all courses required for graduation can be taken in English.
''We wanted to remove the language barrier so we can tap the pool of top talent out there in the world,'' said Yujin Yaguchi, associate professor of American studies and the chairman of PEAK.
Driving such a move, which Mr. Yaguchi said was ''unthinkable'' 10 to 15 years ago, is the sense that Todai, as the university is commonly called in Japan, might be falling in international rankings, particularly behind top counterparts in Asia.
''There are problems with the way the ranking is done, but the university's leadership is not ignorant of the ranking, either,'' Dr. Yaguchi said.
The new degree program in English, Mr. Yaguchi said, raises Todai's visibility in the international education marketplace and plugs the university into the stream of top talent looking for opportunities worldwide.
''I visit university fairs around the world, and there are great talents emerging from high schools around the world,'' Mr. Yaguchi said.
Those students tend to be drawn to top colleges and universities, he said, adding, ''We want them to include University of Tokyo as a possible choice.''
Many high school graduates from South Korea and China, proficient in Japanese, are bound for Todai, but the talent pool is limited to a few Asian countries.
''We wanted to diversify our international student body'' to include people from other regions, Mr. Yaguchi said.
The 27 incoming PEAK students, who finished their entrance ceremony on Oct. 1, arrived from 11 countries including Australia, Britain, Finland, Poland, the United States and Vietnam.
Bryan Kuek, a Singaporean, said he never imagined that he would attend Todai because ''I thought they teach only in Japanese.'' But he was browsing the Todai's Web site and noticed information that said the university was introducing a program entirely in English. ''I got interested in the chance of becoming the pioneering batch,'' he said. ''And this university is very prestigious, so that is a plus point.''
The new group of international students adds less than 1 percent to the freshman class of 3,000. But expectations are high among top officials at the university.
Increasing the flow of international students and researchers and ''enhancing diversity in our student body is high on the agenda for the university,'' said Masako Egawa, executive vice president for international affairs. PEAK will add to the dynamism of student flow, both in and out, she said.
Japanese students at the university also seem to be excited with the arrival of a new international group. At the suggestion of the international office, students formed PEAK Friends, an organization of volunteers who help the foreign students get acclimated to life at the university and Japan in general. Two hundred students have signed up for the program.
''I was surprised at the enthusiasm and the number of people interested in it, as they completely outnumbered the PEAK students,'' said Mr. Yaguchi, the program's chairman.
Despite the uncertainty of the new program, Seojin Lee, a South Korean, says she feels fortunate.
The university authorities are recruiting ''30 students maximum, and they are putting so much resources on us, so we would all get a lot of attention, allowing us to do what we want to do and to be who we want to be -- and that's what really drew me to this program,'' she said.
Students who speak English will be able to take an array of classes during their first two years, including physics, mathematics, philosophy, linguistics and economics. They will then proceed to a major in one of two fields during their third and fourth years: environmental science or East Asian studies, with a particular focus on Japan.
About three-quarters of the students are eligible for a full-tuition waiver and a monthly living allowance. Tuition is ¥535,800 annually, or about $6,800, plus a one-time admission fee of ¥282,000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN STUDENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (75%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%) JAPAN (93%); ASIA (92%); CHINA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SINGAPORE (78%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



299 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Amid Successes, W.N.B.A. Is Still Facing Challenges

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
With all the good news that it has to shout about, the W.N.B.A. may be the quietest professional sports league in the United States.
The N.F.L. is a behemoth, the N.B.A. pounds its chest and Major League Baseball enjoys an inheritance, but the W.N.B.A. -- the most successful women's teams sports league in American history -- continues to fly under the radar even as it prepares for its 16th finals this week. And though it wouldn't be accurate to say that nobody cares, league officials say they wish more people did.
The league has completed its first season with the wireless service provider Boost Mobile as its marquee sponsor. Officials say W.N.B.A. merchandise sales have increased 19 percent over last season and group sales by 20 percent. Season-ticket renewals for next season are up 10 percent.
In many ways the W.N.B.A. would not exist without Title IX, the federal mandate that, among other things, created equal opportunity for women in college sports. Title IX's reach does not extend beyond the college cocoon, so women's pro sports are forced to make their own way in a marketplace dominated by the more established men's leagues.
But the league has held its own in this competitive landscape. It had, for example, a strong presence at the London Olympics, with its players represented on several national teams. The young talent in the league and the talent on the horizon are sources of optimism.
''I feel very good about the level of play in the United States, and we've had a very solid year in terms of very key metrics,'' said Laurel Richie, who is completing her second season as the league president after serving as a senior vice president and chief marketing officer for the Girl Scouts.
But metrics are one thing, passion quite another. The challenge for the W.N.B.A. is to cultivate a widening fan base that really cares about women's basketball. Richie's marketing background makes her a timely pick to head the league. But she faces challenges.
Despite an uptick in season-ticket sales, the W.N.B.A. had its lowest average regular-season attendance, 7,457 fans a game, since its inception in 1997. It has not averaged more than 10,000 since 1999.
''At the end of the day, you've got to get people in the stands and people supporting it, and not just dads with their little daughters,'' said Chamique Holdsclaw, a three-time all-American at Tennessee and a former W.N.B.A. star.
Holdsclaw notes that men often get together after work and go to N.B.A. games in their business suits.
''It's the after-work thing to do,'' she said. ''You rarely see that with women. The W.N.B.A. and N.B.A. need businesswomen and women executives buying season tickets and going to games after work. We're trying, we're making waves. We're not there, where we need to be yet.''
In a significant shift, the W.N.B.A. is promoting not simply those who fit a traditional marketing profile but its top talent, like Minnesota's heavily tattooed star Seimone Augustus, who burst on the scene with an abundance of personality and has been widely embraced.
''Sometimes it wasn't the best players who were being promoted, but the best image,'' Holdsclaw said. ''I see the league getting away from that and saying, hey, we want to promote the players who are the best players.''
Closely related, Holdsclaw said, is the W.N.B.A.'s acknowledgment of its significant gay fan base, an effort that sets it apart from its male counterparts.
''The league realizes that it has to support and have a place for its gay community,'' Holdsclaw said. ''A lot of gay people love sports and want to support the W.N.B.A. You have players, some star players now, who openly identify as being gay. Early on, the league would not market them because of that. That has changed. You have to be honest with your product and with the athletes that you're dealing with. And get support from wherever you can.''
Another great challenge is making the league a hip destination, not a social or moral obligation.
''You have to make your product interesting and entertaining and make it a choice,'' said Paula Madison, the chief executive and majority owner of the Los Angeles Sparks. ''You can't get people to come to you because they feel badly. It can't be, 'Oh my God, I should go watch women's basketball.' ''
She added: ''It's got to be: 'I had an unbelievable experience. It was so much fun, the level of play was great and the fans were great and I can take my kids and it didn't break my wallet.' That's where we have to start.''
The Sparks have been one of the W.N.B.A.'s most successful franchises and Madison one of the league's most dynamic owners. She decided to buy the team in 2007 after the radio host Don Imus referred to members of the predominantly black Rutgers women's basketball team as ''nappy-headed hos.''
''That changed my whole life,'' said Madison, who is African-American and was NBC's diversity chief at the time. ''It did two things. It made me, with all of my might, work really hard to have NBC separate itself from Don Imus.''
MSNBC broadcast Imus's show.
After working successfully to sever the relationship, Madison turned her attention to the Sparks, who are not affiliated with the N.B.A.
Madison pointed out that the issues facing the W.N.B.A. are not only economic but cultural. These go to the core of the perception of and value placed on women as athletes.
''We bump up against culture challenges,'' Madison said. ''There are some cultures that don't want young women once they get past 15 years old or so being that athletic. There are some young women who perceive being athletic as being not as feminine.''
There have also been suggestions that the W.N.B.A. should play in smaller arenas to create a more intimate experience. But Madison said the league could not go backward.
''In order for us to gain the kind of marketing dollars and sponsorship dollars, we have to play big,'' she said.
Rather, she said, the W.N.B.A.'s goal should be to secure a leaguewide television contract. According to Madison, the Sparks, who led the league with an average attendance of 10,176, are the only W.N.B.A. team with a paid local television contract -- through Time Warner Sports West. The other teams give the games away or pay a production fee to have their games televised.
''I'm not giving this away; that's content that somebody needs,'' she said. ''Once you give it away, it becomes virtually impossible now to monetize it.''
The most compelling argument for the W.N.B.A.'s survival may be the N.B.A. itself. The men's league was in 1946 known as the Basketball Association of America and adopted its current name in 1949 after merging with the rival National Basketball League. It spent decades and millions of dollars to establish itself on the American sports landscape.
With innovative marketing and forceful leadership, the W.N.B.A. can make similar strides, aided by a greater acceptance of women's sports and the increasing athleticism of its players.
Record numbers of girls continue to play the sport, and women's college basketball at the top level enjoys popularity. And, most important, the W.N.B.A., in a relative sense, is in its infancy.
''I have to remind myself that the W.N.B.A. is in its 16th year going on its 17th year,'' Richie said. ''This is a process; it takes time to build a following. There are strong signs we're headed in the right direction.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The opening game of the W.N.B.A. Eastern Conference finals between Indiana and Connecticut. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA HILL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); OLYMPICS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); WOMEN (76%); BASEBALL (73%); TICKET SALES (73%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (72%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); RETAIL SALES (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (69%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); HISTORY (56%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



300 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: Whose Sacrifice?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Three Muffled Syllables,'' by Frank Bruni (column, Sept. 30):
Bull's-eye, Mr. Bruni. Those beating the drums of war the loudest are usually those who never served and whose children also avoid service. Those who worry most about the deficit and the debt are the ones most protective of their tax privileges. Those who vote and rail against minimum-wage increases and argue against collective bargaining then wonder why the middle class is dying.
Sadly, this pervasive greed and insanity have afflicted those who have and those who don't. In the past, unions have bargained for more than is economically sustainable. And people at the bottom of our economy have often come to expect something for nothing.
But it is the Americans at the top of our economic pyramid who have created the problem and who benefit most (at least in the short run) from our loss of any sense of shared sacrifice.
I fault the Democratic Party for lacking the courage to expose the problem clearly and to offer viable solutions. But it is the G.O.P. that engages in the rankest hypocrisy in this regard and appeals to our basest instincts.
DAVID KUZIEMKO Sterling Heights, Mich., Sept. 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (56%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



301 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: With Affirmative Action, India's Rich Gain School Slots Meant for Poor

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS; Niharika Mandhana contributed reporting from Chennai and New Delhi.

 BODY:
CHENNAI, India -- The two women both claim that affirmative action cost them coveted spots at elite public universities. Both cases have now reached the Supreme Court.
One of the women, Abigail Fisher, 22, who is white, says she was denied admission to the University of Texas based on her race, and on Wednesday, the United States Supreme Court is to hear her plea in what may be the year's most important decision. The other woman is from the southern Indian state of Tamil Nadu, and two weeks ago the Indian Supreme Court ordered that she be admitted to medical school pending the outcome of a broader court review.
''When I came to know that I could not get into any medical college, I was really shocked,'' C. V. Gayathri, the Indian student, said in an interview. ''I didn't speak to anyone for a week. I cried. I was very depressed.''
Though the outlines of the two cases are similar, differences between how the world's two largest democracies have chosen to redress centuries of past discrimination are striking. While affirmative action in the United States is now threatened, the program in India is a vast system of political patronage that increasingly works to reward the powerful rather than uplift those in need.
Indeed, the caste-based affirmative action here raises questions for nations like Brazil and Malaysia that have adopted anti-discrimination programs that are in some ways similar to India's. Without diligent judicial oversight, experts say, the efforts can help perpetuate inequality rather than redress it.
In Tamil Nadu, for instance, 69 percent of university admissions are now set aside for what the state has determined to be ''backward castes.'' Many of those favored with these set-asides have controlled Tamil Nadu's government and much of its resources for generations, but they claim special status by pointing to a caste survey done in 1931. (Ms. Gayathri, 17, is a Brahmin whose parents are civil servants with modest incomes.)
Five prominent university officials in Tamil Nadu said in interviews that those given set-asides at their institutions were generally the children of doctors, lawyers and high-level bureaucrats. The result is that rich students routinely get preference over more accomplished poor ones who do not happen to belong to the favored castes. None of the officials would allow their names to be used for fear of angering the government ministers who benefit politically and personally from the program.
India's caste system was created nearly 1,500 years ago to organize occupations in a feudal agricultural society. Those at the bottom of the system, now known as Dalits, were forbidden in some places from even allowing their shadows to fall on those at the top, known as Brahmins. Most castes were deemed ''backward,'' which meant that they were consigned to menial jobs.
Over the last 30 years, however, India's economy has been transformed, much of its populace has moved from villages to sprawling cities, and once distinct castes have been scrambled. That has led to the erosion of historic differences in education and increased income mobility within castes in India, recent studies have found.
''Caste is no longer an economic restriction,'' said Viktoria Hnatkovska, an assistant professor of economics at the University of British Columbia, and a co-author of several studies on the changing role of caste in India.
Nonetheless, quotas have transformed the taint of ''backwardness'' into a coveted designation.
The Gujjars of Rajasthan, for instance, held violent riots two years ago to protest the government's refusal to declare them as ''most backward.'' Politicians win elections in India by promising to bestow this one-time curse, which has led to a dramatic expansion in those considered backward decades after the designation had true economic meaning.
Indeed, caste awareness among the young is sustained in part because of set-asides, so a program intended to eliminate the caste system is now blamed by many for sustaining it.
''When I was filling out my college application forms, there was this box for caste,'' said Sneha Sekhsaria, 25, of Calcutta. ''I had to ask my dad what our caste was, and he had to think about it for 15 minutes before telling me that we were in the general category.''
The general category meant that she received no preference, a fact that Ms. Sekhsaria blames for her failure to qualify for medical school. She went to dental school instead.
''Being a doctor was always my dream, but I got a dental degree instead and that's O.K.,'' she said.
But she remains bitter that some of her friends who scored more poorly than she did on entrance exams were able to become doctors even though she and others in her circle were entirely unaware that they were ''backward.''
Nonetheless, the benefits that flow from caste quotas have made them popular, and supporting them is one of the few issues on which the present government and its opposition agree. Within the next few months, the Indian Parliament is expected to overwhelming approve a constitutional amendment that would allow caste-based quotas not just in educational settings and in government hiring but also in government promotions.
The Supreme Court has repeatedly tried to curtail the scope of caste quotas, but the Parliament has passed amendments in response to protect and even expand them. The court has ruled that quotas should not exceed 50 percent of university admissions, but Tamil Nadu has ignored this restriction and a case challenging the state's larger quota has been pending since 1994.
In the meantime, the court has ordered the state to provide extra slots to at least some students who contest the higher quotas, including Ms. Gayathri, who has been admitted to Tirunelveli Medical College. In an interview, Salman Khurshid, India's law minister and minister for minority affairs, said that wealthy beneficiaries of caste quotas should acknowledge that they no longer need set-asides and voluntarily bow out of the system.
Some rules forbid the wealthy -- or ''creamy layer'' -- from taking advantage of quotas, but those rules have not been implemented in many states and are widely ignored in others.
D. Sundaram, a retired professor of sociology from Madras University and a longtime member of Tamil Nadu's now-disbanded Backward Classes Commission, defended the state's quotas by saying that even three generations of wealth and power cannot reverse centuries of backwardness.
''The system has not been in place long enough,'' Dr. Sundaram said.
To be sure, many Dalits and people from tribal backgrounds are still overwhelmingly poor, and even many critics of India's caste-based quotas acknowledge that set-asides for them may still be worthy.
Ravi Kumar, general secretary of a Dalit political party in Tamil Nadu, agreed that many of those who benefit from the state's vast caste-based quotas are wealthy and powerful. But his party supports quotas, also known as reservations, for the wealthy ''because if we opposed them they would stop all reservations,'' Mr. Kumar said.
Pratap Bhanu Mehta, president of the Center for Policy Research in New Delhi, said that caste-based quotas will gradually become less important as the quotas themselves make public universities less attractive to the most talented students. ''The talented people will simply migrate away,'' he said.
But that is no comfort to Ms. Sekhsaria, whose family ended up spending tens of thousands of dollars to send her to a private dental school after she was turned down for a government medical school, where the fees are modest.
''Of the thousands of reasons to hate the government, reservations is definitely one of them,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SNEHA SEKHSARIA, 25, of Calcutta, facing front at right, of the quotas used for university admissions (PHOTOGRAPH BY KUNI TAKAHASHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (94%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (76%); CHILDREN (75%); LAWYERS (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (90%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOLKATA, INDIA (58%) TAMIL NADU, INDIA (95%); SOUTH INDIA (79%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (58%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



302 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Romney's's Missing Foreign Policy

BYLINE: By DANIELLE PLETKA. 
Danielle Pletka is the vice president for foreign and defense studies at the American Enterprise Institute.

 BODY:
IF it hadn't been for the deadly Sept. 11 attack on the United States Consulate in Benghazi, Libya, Mitt Romney probably wouldn't be giving a speech on foreign policy in the waning weeks of this election season. But Mr. Romney sensed an opening in President Obama's missteps in Libya, and on Monday he plans to lay out his case that he will be a better steward of America's national security.
For an American public fixated on the economy, another Romney valedictory on the advantages of not being Barack Obama will be a waste of time. Americans feel more comfortable when they have a sense of the candidate's vision, because it gives them a clearer road map for the future.
Mr. Romney must articulate his vision of America's place in the world in a way that makes sense not only to the American people, but to friends and foes alike. There is a case to be made for a contrast with Mr. Obama. But, thus far, no Republican leader has made it.
Mr. Romney needs to persuade people that he's not simply a George W. Bush retread, eager to go to war in Syria and Iran and answer all the mail with an F-16. He needs to understand that even though Mr. Obama's so-called pivot to Asia is more rhetorical flourish than actual policy, it responds to a crying need.
Any new vision for American greatness in the world must flow from an understanding of how the country has changed since 2001. We are still one of the richest nations on earth, but Americans are poorer, war-weary and irritated with what appears to be the ingratitude of nations for which we have sacrificed a great deal in blood and treasure. There are substantial wings of both the Democratic and Republican parties that wish to wash their hands of the world's troubles.
In that environment, Mr. Romney must give a clear explanation of how American power since the end of World War II provided the foundation for the most prosperous and successful era in human history; how our domination of the world's most trafficked waterways has permitted the flourishing of trade; and how exporting our principles of political and economic freedom has opened and nourished markets that buy American goods, employ American workers and allow Americans to enjoy an unmatched level of security.
More important, Americans must know that it is not for mercantile benefits alone that the United States has exerted its leadership. It is because there is no other power, and no other people, that can -- or, if able, would -- exert the benign influence that has characterized our role in the world. Whether you like the Iraq war or hate it; like the battle in Afghanistan or not; believe in the ouster of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi or revile it -- in no case has the United States intervened for malevolent purposes.
Unfortunately, Mr. Romney hasn't made that claim. Instead, when asked for specifics, he has outlined an Iran policy that doesn't differ markedly from Mr. Obama's. When pressed on what he would do differently in Syria, he has trodden so carefully that he has found himself to the left of his party's internationalist wing. And he has doubled down on the notion that Russia remains a geostrategic threat, without presenting any persuasive evidence that it is.
It's not that Mr. Romney does not or cannot offer a more compelling vision of American leadership. Having heard him speak privately, and having met him on a few occasions, I believe he has one. Now is the moment to show it.
Mr. Romney must make clear that he has a strategic view of American power that is different from the Obama administration's narrow and tactical approach. He must tell Americans that he won't overlook terrorist threats, as the Obama administration did in Benghazi; that he won't fight to oust a dictator in Libya and ignore the pleas of another revolution in Syria; that he won't simply denounce Iran's nuclear program while tacitly legitimizing the country's theocratic regime and ignoring its opponents; and that he won't hand out billions of dollars in aid and debt forgiveness to Egypt's new leaders when the principles of religious and political freedom are being trampled in the streets of Cairo.
Clearly America cannot do everything. But we must always champion our founding beliefs and reject the moral, political and cultural relativism that has flourished under Mr. Obama.
Mr. Romney can make the case that when people fight for their freedom, they will find support -- sometimes political, sometimes economic and sometimes military -- from the American president. When Russians and Chinese demand accountability from their governments, we can stand with them and work with their governments to further common interests. When terrorists target us, we will not simply eliminate them with drones while ignoring the environment that breeds them. And when our allies look to us for support, we will help them fight for themselves.
Criticisms of Mr. Obama's national security policies have degenerated into a set of clichés about apologies, Israel, Iran and military spending. To be sure, there is more than a germ of truth in many of these accusations. But these are complaints, not alternatives. Worse yet, they betray the same robotic antipathy that animated Bush-haters. ''I will not apologize for America'' is no more a clarion call than ''let's nation-build at home.''
Mr. Romney must put flesh on the bones of his calls for a renewed American greatness. With a vision for American power, strategically and judiciously applied, we can continue to do great things with fewer resources. The nation's greatest strength is not its military power or fantastic productivity. It's the American commitment to our founding principles of political and economic freedom. If Mr. Romney can outline to voters how he will use American power to advance those principles, he will go a long way in persuading them he deserves the job of commander in chief.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); WORLD WAR II (66%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); ASIA (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



303 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: A Parting Glance at Ad Week 2012

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT and TANZINA VEGA

 BODY:
HERE is a look at some highlights, lowlights and sidelights of Advertising Week 2012, which took place from Monday through Friday in New York.
JOB TRUTHERS? The sharp decline in the nation's unemployment rate to 7.8 percent, announced Friday, generated comments on Twitter that the Obama administration had cooked the books for political gain.
Joining Jack Welch, former chief executive of General Electric, in casting doubts on the report was Miles S. Nadal, chairman and chief executive of MDC Partners, which owns agencies like Crispin Porter & Bogusky and Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners. The remarks from Mr. Nadal, who had appeared on an Advertising Week panel on Wednesday, included ''This is fudged!'' and ''Makes no sense.''
Left unmentioned was an announcement on Thursday by Andrew Keller, chief executive of Crispin Porter & Bogusky, which employs nearly 900 people. Although the agency will continue hiring in areas like ''creative, strategic and digital,'' Mr. Keller said in a statement, it will be ''eliminating some positions, less than 5 percent, most in areas not absolutely essential to our creative product.''
MDC seemed to be the only agency holding group to reduce staff during Advertising Week.
STAR TREKS Each year, the organizers of Advertising Week seek to sprinkle the schedule with famous names to increase attendance and stimulate buzz.
For instance, Whoopi Goldberg was part of a panel, Future of Film, discussing her recent campaign on Kickstarter to raise money for a film about the comedian Moms Mabley. Although the initial reaction was not positive, Ms. Goldberg said, because many people assume that celebrities are flush with cash for personal projects, the campaign ended successfully. ''It made me feel so appreciated,'' she said.
When the conversation turned to incorporating brands into movies, television shows and videos, Ms. Goldberg spoke frankly to two other panelists, Judy Hu, global executive director for advertising and brand at General Electric, and Doug Scott, president of Ogilvy Entertainment. ''I can't come work for you,'' she said, ''because my film will be tied to my opinion that may threaten your business.''
Naomi Campbell also appeared on a panel, the Currency of Culture in Marketing, talking about her new reality competition series, ''The Face,'' on the Oxygen cable channel, and the challenges faced by black models when trying to land brand sponsorships or magazine covers.
''There are still a lot of publications that will not put a black person on the cover,'' Ms. Campbell said.
Other familiar faces included Andrew Shue of ''Melrose Place,'' who spoke on a panel in his capacity as a founder of the Web site CafeMom, and the rapper Lupe Fiasco, who performed at a concert, sponsored by Microsoft Advertising.
One panel even spoofed the star-centric tendencies of Madison Avenue. It was called Peter, Paul and Mary, but it featured no folk singers. Rather, the moderators were Paul Lavoie, chairman of Taxi, and Mary Baglivo, chairwoman and chief executive for Latin America and multicultural at Saatchi & Saatchi, and all the panelists were named Peter.
NOT EURO SKEPTICS After nine years of Advertising Week in New York, the organizers are planning to expand. The first Advertising Week Europe is set for London, at the British Academy of Film and Television Arts headquarters in the West End.
Advertising Week Europe is scheduled for March 18 through 22, or, as the target audience might say, 18 through 22 March. An advertising week takes place annually in Canada, but it is not affiliated with the New York event.
BROUGHT TO YOU BY Although advertising during Advertising Week to people who work in advertising is almost a meta-concept, many companies try anyway.
For instance, each day AOL gave away a different item to attendees: mints, Monday; energy shots, Tuesday; hand sanitizer, Wednesday; and lip balm, Thursday.
And the Weather Channel cable network delivered customized daily weather reports on video screens inside places like the B. B. King Blues Club and Grill. Each ended with a reminder that the Weather Channel was ''the official forecaster of Advertising Week.''
WHAT A CHARACTER As has been done each year since the first Advertising Week, in 2004, the organizers announced results of consumer voting for members of the Madison Avenue Walk of Fame.
Two characters were inducted, both for insurers: Flo, the Progressive salesclerk, played by Stephanie Courtney, and an anthropomorphic pig named Maxwell, for Geico. Maxwell joins the Geico gecko and cave men on the walk of fame.
Two slogans were also inducted: ''The Sea Is Calling. Answer It Royally,'' for Royal Caribbean, and ''When colors mean this much, you can only trust them to Tide,'' for Tide detergent.
NICE GIG IF YOU CAN GET IT Five young men and women who hope to work in advertising won paid, 30-day freelance positions in the fourth annual Big Ad Gig contest. They were among eight finalists who presented ideas to six industry judges for a public service campaign for the Advertising Council that would help parents discuss with their children how to prevent bullying.
The campaign presented by Alex McAreavey, which carried the theme ''Create a hero. Bullying happens but it doesn't have to,'' was declared the winner and will be produced by the council through a donation from Microsoft of ad space and time worth $250,000. Mr. McAreavey will work at Atmosphere Proximity; the other winners are: Jordan Chlapecka, who will work at Deutsch New York; Joey Manin, Crispin Porter & Bogusky; Kristen Scharf, Co Collective; and Jenny Wagstaff, Ogilvy & Mather New York.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Popular ad characters at the New York Public Library during Advertising Week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN ACH/INVISION FOR ADVERTISING WEEK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (71%); HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); CELEBRITIES (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); REALITY TELEVISION (63%); CABLE TELEVISION (62%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (62%); HIP HOP CULTURE (60%)

COMPANY: CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (91%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); MDC PARTNERS INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); MDZ.A (TSX) (57%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); JACK WELCH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



304 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: Romney Strives to Stand Apart in Global Policy

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Mitt Romney is intensifying his efforts to draw a sharp contrast with President Obama on national security in the presidential campaign's closing stages, portraying Mr. Obama as having mishandled the tumult in the Arab world and having left the nation exposed to a terrorist attack in Libya.
In a speech on Monday at the Virginia Military Institute, Mr. Romney will declare that ''hope is not a strategy'' for dealing with the rise of Islamist governments in the Middle East or an Iran racing toward the capability to build a nuclear weapon, according to excerpts released by his campaign.
The essence of Mr. Romney's argument is that he would take the United States back to an earlier era, one that would result, as his young foreign policy director, Alex Wong, told reporters on Sunday, in ''the restoration of a strategy that served us well for 70 years.''
But beyond his critique of Mr. Obama as failing to project American strength abroad, Mr. Romney has yet to fill in many of the details of how he would conduct policy toward the rest of the world, or to resolve deep ideological rifts within the Republican Party and his own foreign policy team. It is a disparate and politely fractious team of advisers that includes warring tribes of neoconservatives, traditional strong-defense conservatives and a band of self-described ''realists'' who believe there are limits to the degree the United States can impose its will.
Each group is vying to shape Mr. Romney's views, usually through policy papers that many of the advisers wonder if he is reading. Indeed, in a campaign that has been so intensely focused on economic issues, some of these advisers, in interviews over the past two weeks in which most insisted on anonymity, say they have engaged with him so little on issues of national security that they are uncertain what camp he would fall into, and are uncertain themselves about how he would govern.
''Would he take the lead in bombing Iran if the mullahs were getting too close to a bomb, or just back up the Israelis?'' one of his senior advisers asked last week. ''Would he push for peace with the Palestinians, or just live with the status quo? He's left himself a lot of wiggle room.''
Indeed, while the theme Mr. Romney plans to hit the hardest in his speech at V.M.I. -- that the Obama era has been one marked by ''weakness'' and the abandonment of allies -- has political appeal, the specific descriptions of what Mr. Romney would do, on issues like drawing red lines for Iran's nuclear program and threatening to cut off military aid to difficult allies like Pakistan or Egypt if they veer away from American interests, sound at times quite close to Mr. Obama's approach.
And the speech appears to glide past positions Mr. Romney himself took more than a year ago, when he voiced opposition to expanding the intervention in Libya to hunt down Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi with what he termed insufficient resources. He called it ''mission creep and mission muddle,'' though within months Mr. Qaddafi was gone. And last spring, Mr. Romney was caught on tape telling donors he believed there was ''just no way'' a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict could work.
Mr. Romney's Monday speech calls vaguely for support of Libya's ''efforts to forge a lasting government'' and to pursue the ''terrorists who attacked our consulate in Benghazi and killed Americans.'' And he said he would ''recommit America to the goal of a democratic, prosperous Palestinian state living side by side in peace and security'' with Israel. But he does not say what resources he would devote to those tasks.
The shifts, a half dozen of Mr. Romney's advisers said in interviews, partly reflect the fact that the candidate himself has not deeply engaged in these issues for most of the campaign, certainly not with the enthusiasm, and instincts, he has on domestic economic issues. But they also represent continuing divisions.
Some are on the way to resolution. Over the summer, an ''inner circle'' of foreign policy advisers emerged, with Richard S. Williamson, a former Reagan administration official who briefly returned to government to serve President George W. Bush, playing a leading role. Another central player is Mitchell B. Reiss, the president of Washington College in Maryland and a veteran of Mr. Romney's 2008 campaign. And Jim Talent, the former Missouri senator, has taken a major role in defense strategy.
Liz Cheney, who served in the State Department during the Bush administration and is the daughter of Mr. Bush's vice president, has begun to join a weekly conference call that sporadically includes Dan Senor, who served as spokesman for the American occupation government in Iraq. Since the Republican National Convention, Mr. Senor has been assigned to the staff of Mr. Romney's running mate, Representative Paul D. Ryan, who in recent weeks has made Mr. Obama's foreign policy a particular target.
The foreign policy group is overseen by Kerry Healey, who served as lieutenant governor under Mr. Romney in Massachusetts. Missing from the calls are some of the better-known veterans of the Republican foreign policy wars that played out during the Bush administration and went into abeyance until the players reconvened in Mr. Romney's campaign.
The faction around John R. Bolton -- the neoconservative former ambassador to the United Nations, who has made clear his distaste for working through international organizations -- expressed its deep unhappiness when Robert Zoellick was appointed as a strategist for the national security transition team. Mr. Zoellick, the former president of the World Bank, who also served in the Bush administration, comes from the internationalist wing of the party; Mr. Bolton's allies deride him as moderate to a fault.
Those disputes have been shelved, at least until Nov. 7, advisers say. '' 'After the election,' that's what they say in all the conference calls,'' one member of the team said after trying, unsuccessfully, to argue for more specificity in one of Mr. Romney's recent statements on the Middle East. He added, ''They see little benefit in resuming the battles that preoccupied the Bush White House, at least for the next month.''
Two of Mr. Romney's advisers said he did not seem to have the strong instincts that he has on economic issues; he resonates best, one said, to the concept of ''projecting strength'' and ''restoring global economic growth.'' But he has appeared unconcerned about the widely differing views within his own campaign about whether spreading American-style freedoms in the Middle East or simply managing, and limiting, the rise of Islamist governments should be a major goal.
And that has led to some embarrassing confusion. Mr. Williamson said in an interview two weeks ago that Mr. Romney favored arming the Syrian rebels, then called back to say that, in fact, Mr. Romney favored having Arab neighbors arm them, a position fairly close to Mr. Obama's. In the speech he is to give on Monday, Mr. Romney calls for organizing ''members of the opposition who share our values'' and ensuring ''they obtain the arms they need to defeat Assad's tanks, helicopters and fighter jets.'' But he stops short of saying he would provide them himself.
In a television interview two weeks ago, Mr. Romney seemed to forget his position that he would halt Iran from getting a nuclear ''capability'' -- something it would reach long before it had a weapon -- and sounded like he was in agreement with the president that he would simply stop Iran from gaining a weapon.
In the V.M.I. speech, he returns to the promise to ''prevent them from acquiring a nuclear weapons capability.'' But he discusses primarily ''new sanctions on Iran,'' at a moment when Mr. Obama has imposed what Republicans from the Bush administration agree are the most severe sanctions in history, and combined them with cyberattacks on Iran's nuclear infrastructure.
Missing from the team are the big names in establishment Republican foreign policy circles. The best known of them, Henry A. Kissinger, has endorsed Mr. Romney, but recently took a shot at his declaration that he would declare China a currency manipulator on the ''first day'' of a new administration. Last week, Mr. Kissinger described both presidential candidates' approach to China as ''extremely deplorable.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mitt Romney at the Western Wall in July. He says President Obama has failed to project American strength abroad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Liz Cheney, who worked at the State Department under George W. Bush, has joined campaign conference calls. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLIFF OWEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 The campaign's foreign policy group is overseen by Kerry Healey, who was lieutenant governor under Mr. Romney. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHITOSE SUZUKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); TERRORISM (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: VIRGINIA MILITARY INSTITUTE (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



305 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data to be released will include wholesale trade for August and the Federal Reserve beige book (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims, trade deficit for August and import prices for September (Thursday); and the Producer Price Index for Septemberthe Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for October (Friday).
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to report quarterly earnings include Alcoa and Chevron (Tuesday); Costco Wholesale (Wednesday); Safeway (Thursday); and JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, bond markets will be closed in observance of Columbus Day.
On Tuesday, a jury trial is scheduled to begin in the Securities and Exchange Commission's lawsuit against the Reserve Primary Fund, its chairman and his son.
On Wednesday, FedEx executives will meet with investors and lenders to detail cost-cutting efforts.
On Thursday, the Agriculture Department will issue monthly estimates of crop supply and demand.
OVERSEAS On Monday, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, will start a three-day visit to India; the European Stability Mechanism will take effect; euro zone finance ministers will meet in Luxembourg to discuss ways to end the region's debt crisis; the European Central Bank and the Federal Reserve will convene a two-day conference on bank financing in Frankfurt; and the International Monetary Fund will update global growth forecasts for 2012 and 2013.
On Tuesday, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner will embark on two days of bilateral meetings in New Delhi and Mumbai; the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank will begin six days of meetings in Tokyo; and the International Monetary Fund will release its global financial stability report.
On Wednesday. Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy of Spain will meet in Paris with President François Hollande of France.
On Thursday, Group of 7 finance ministers will meet in Tokyo.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); EURO ZONE (79%); DEBT CRISIS (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); IMPORT PRICES (77%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (74%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); BONDS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); JURY TRIALS (69%); LITIGATION (69%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (66%); MONETARY UNIONS (66%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (63%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (68%); COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (58%); ALCOA INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); COST (NASDAQ) (58%); AAI (ASX) (57%); AA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (58%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (57%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (57%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (77%); BEN BERNANKE (59%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (77%); TOKYO, JAPAN (65%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (92%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); SPAIN (78%); JAPAN (65%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



306 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: Bartz Reflects, And Offers Advice To Her Successor

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

 BODY:
If Carol Bartz, the former chief executive of Yahoo, could go back in time, she would have changed one thing about her relationship with the board that fired her by phone last year.
Ms. Bartz would have spent more time understanding the relationships between the board members, she said Tuesday at Fortune's Most Powerful Women summit in Laguna Niguel, Calif.
"I didn't understand or have the time or take the time - that's a much better thing to say, take the time - to understand the relationships they had between themselves," she said.
How could she have done that as chief executive? "Well, you go in the men's room," she said. In reality, she added, she should have arranged dinners with two board members at a time.
Ms. Bartz gave Yahoo's former board some credit - but also a little dig.
"Unfortunately for the board, they had gone through one year of the acquisition battle with Microsoft," she said. "And in fairness to them, they just wanted it to be simple, like no more press, no more anything. But the business is tougher than that."
Now Marissa Mayer has taken over as chief executive of Yahoo, with an entirely new board. Ms. Bartz said she and Ms. Mayer have spoken about the job.
Her advice for Ms. Mayer was to understand that change at such a big company is hard. Ms. Mayer is trying to change Yahoo's culture in ways big and small, like serving free food and acquiring more startups.
"One piece of advice I would give her is changing culture is not a sprint, it's a marathon," Ms. Bartz said. "It's very, very hard to affect culture. And you can get surprised thinking you're farther down the path of change than you really are because, frankly, most of us like the way things are."
Employees might nod when an executive suggests changes, she said, "then they go back to their cube and go, 'I ain't doing that.' And so I think that's important for all of us, is to realize how stuck individuals can be, much less 14,000 people."
Ms. Bartz did not rule out taking another chief executive role, saying she is an opportunist rather than a planner.
"I grew up in a small town in Wisconsin," she said. "I never thought I'd be where I am. I never thought I'd have bling," she said, flashing the rings on her fingers before adding, with perfect comic timing, "that I bought."
Ms. Bartz is the lead director of Cisco Systems, where she has been on the board for two decades, and she has also served on seven other public company boards during that time.
The difference between a good board and a bad one, she said, is not panicking, which she said the Cisco board achieves, and being genuinely interested in the company rather than prestige or money.
She said she has turned down board positions from banks because "I like banks because they keep my money safe, but I don't want to talk about banks 12 times a year."
Directors who are genuinely interested will take the time to get to know one another and the executives, but not be afraid to fire one another, she said.
"When trouble strikes, which it always does - bad economy, bad quarter, activists, takeover - when trouble strikes, those board members who don't understand or are not committed are not helpful," she said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carol Bartz, the former chief of Yahoo, spoke last week at a Fortune magazine conference in California. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX GALLARDO/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (94%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (50%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (94%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (50%)

PERSON: CAROL BARTZ (93%); MARISSA MAYER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); WISCONSIN, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



307 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
In observance of Columbus Day, bond markets will be closed on Monday. Stock markets will be open for trading. The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes the weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills on Tuesday and an auction of four-week bills on Wednesday.
At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.10 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.14 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.10 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
TUESDAY
Fontana, Calif., Unified School District, $87.9 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
WEDNESDAY
Montgomery County, Md., $295 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
South Carolina Transportation Infrastructure Bank, $432.3 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Alabama Incentives Financing Authority, $119.1 million of special obligation bonds. Raymond James.
California Association of Bay Area Governments, $61 million of debt securities. Bank of America.
California Wetlands Water District, $84 million of refinancing revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
California, $315 million of taxable hospital debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
Centre County, Pa., Hospital Authority, $108 million of medical center debt securities. Bank of America.
Clear Creek, Tex., Independent School District, $131.5 million of general obligation refinancing bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Cleveland, $77 million of water revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Colorado Health Facilities Authority, $50.5 million of revenue refinancing bonds. Ziegler.
Delaware River Joint Toll Bridge Commission, $86.9 million of university enterprise refinancing bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
Denver, $700 million of aviation airport system revenue bonds. Barclays Capital.
Fort Bend, Tex., $127 million of debt securities. Bank of America.
Greenville County, S.C., $51.1 million of debt securities. Wells Fargo Securities.
Illinois Finance Authority, $61.5 million of revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Kentucky Economic Development Finance Authority, $50 million of health care facilities revenue refinancing bonds. Ziegler.
Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, $300 million of power system revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, $350 million of power system revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Los Angeles, $350 million of revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Massachusetts School Building Authority, $725 million of debt securities. Jefferies.
Minnesota Port Authority, $51 million of debt securities. Bank of America.
Mississippi Development Bank, $163 million of highway construction project debt securities. Raymond James.
Nassau County, N.Y., Local Economic Assistance Corporation, $92.1 million of hospital revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
New Orleans, $198.6 million of taxable limited tax refinancing bonds. Raymond James.
New York Dormitory Authority., $887 million of personal income tax revenue bonds. Bank of America.
Ohio, $175 million of highway debt securities. Wells Fargo Securities.
Philadelphia Authority for Industrial Development, $231.2 million of city service agreement revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs.
Rhode Island, $82 million of general obligation bonds. Barclays Capital.
San Antonio, $519.5 million of public facilities improvement revenue refinancing bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
South Dakota Health and Educational Facilities Authority, $120 million of revenue bonds. Cain Brothers.
University of Colorado, $130.8 million of university enterprise refinancing bonds. RBC Capital Markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (95%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); HOSPITALS (87%); HEALTH CARE (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (87%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); WATER RIGHTS (71%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); TAX LAW (70%); AIRPORTS (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%); INCOME TAX (66%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (60%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); WETLANDS (52%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); DELAWARE RIVER JOINT TOLL BRIDGE COMMISSION (66%); LOS ANGELES DEPARTMENT OF WATER & POWER (65%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (53%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (53%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (53%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (65%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



308 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Politics; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: For Both Campaigns, Time to Fine-Tune Their Messages

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
Presidential candidates win when they adapt. And that is exactly whatMitt Romney andPresident Obama are each trying to do.
The debate last Wednesday, events in the Middle East and the better-than-expected jobs report on Friday are forcing the two campaigns to adjust to a new reality in the final month before Election Day. Neither can simply follow its playbook and expect to succeed.
Here is a look at how the dynamics have shifted, and how the candidates are expected to react in the week ahead:
UNEMPLOYMENT For more than a year, Mr. Romney's most consistent economic argument was a simple one: unemployment had stubbornly remained above 8 percent for Mr. Obama's entire presidency. That is a firing offense, Mr. Romney said again and again.
"We've had 43 straight months with unemployment above 8 percent," Mr. Romney said in his closing statement at the debate on Wednesday.
Now, though, Mr. Romney will have to adjust his stump speech and his ads. The drop in unemployment to 7.8 percent robs him of the simple argument he has been making and will require a new line of attack.
Mr. Romney's initial attempt to adjust his message was to question the statistic. Speaking at an event in Virginia on Friday, he said that people who "just drop out altogether" from the work force had artificially lowered the rate.
But that technical explanation is not a rallying cry. So Mr. Romney has seized on a slightly different jobs message that does not dwell so much on the current unemployment rate. The new approach will be on display in rallies this week.
"There were fewer new jobs created this month than last month," Mr. Romney said in Abingdon, Va. "We don't have to stay on the path we've been on. We can do better."
DEBATE TACTICS For Mr. Obama, the new reality was created moments after the debate ended on Wednesday night. His lackluster performance slowed his momentum and raised questions about his strategy.
For Mr. Obama's campaign, the question is how to adapt. Senior strategists on Thursday hinted strongly that Mr. Obama would be much more aggressive in his next debate - an approach he has already begun taking at rallies in the last several days.
Campaign advisers say Vice PresidentJoseph R. Biden Jr. will reinforce that shift in his debate with RepresentativePaul D. Ryan on Thursday. And the campaign's allies have already begun calling Mr. Romney a serial liar - a message that will continue in ads this week.
A new video released by Mr. Obama's campaign on Sunday is an example of the new strategy. Called "Cameras," the video argues that Mr. Romney's debate performance was a series of lies that distorted his record.
But the biggest challenge for Mr. Obama's campaign may be how to respond if polls this week show that his campaign has lost the momentum it seemed to have at the end of September.
LIBYA AND THE MIDEAST Both campaigns have long argued that the economy is the biggest issue of the campaign. But the killing of the American ambassador to Libya, as well as the broader instability in the Middle East, has changed that dynamic a bit.
Mr. Romney appears ready to adjust his message by seizing on the Libya situation to question the president's judgment and leadership. He plans to deliver a foreign policy speech on Monday at the Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Va.
He clearly hopes to put Mr. Obama on the defensive over the attacks on the diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya. The question is whether he can turn that argument into a broader indictment of the president's foreign policy.
For Mr. Obama, the overseas events also present the need to adapt. His campaign will need to find answers for the situation in Libya and the Middle East while more aggressively making the wider case for his leadership abroad.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama during the debate in Denver last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



309 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Venezuelans Line Up Before Dawn to Vote in Midtown

BYLINE: By JULIE TURKEWITZ

 BODY:
Alejandro Fandiño awoke at 3 a.m. on Sunday and drove from his home in Dover, N.J., to the Venezuelan Consulate in New York, hoping to be first in line to vote in Venezuela's presidential election.
Mr. Fandiño, 26, who arrived with his mother, stepfather, sister and an aunt, waited for two and a half hours in the cold, damp autumnal darkness before the polls opened. He was the first in line, yet just before he went inside to vote for his candidate, Henrique Capriles Radonski, he ceded his spot to a woman from Caracas, Venezuela, named María.
She said that she had flown 14 hours from Geneva so she could vote in New York and that her return flight left in 45 minutes.
They were among many Venezuelan expatriates who took part in the election. Mr. Capriles, a state governor, had been seen as the first serious challenger to the longtime incumbent, Hugo Chávez, who came to power in 1998 but faced mounting criticism over high murder rates and persistent food and energy shortages. Mr. Chávez was declared the winner late Sunday.
In February, before Mr. Capriles, who had campaigned as a moderate alternative to the left-wing policies of Mr. Chávez, won a critical primary that united the opposition, there were only 56,000 Venezuelans registered to vote abroad. Today, the number is 100,495, according to the Council of the Americas, an educational and economic development organization.
According to the consulate in New York, some 3,500 people are registered to vote there - more than three times as many as those who voted in the 2006 election. The sidewalk outside the consulate, at 51st Street and Madison Avenue, was jammed by 5:15 a.m. The consulate said that 2,487 people had voted by the end of day.
Voters walked from their homes in Midtown, drove in from Vermont and flew in from Europe. Venezuelan election law requires that all voting be done in person with voters dipping thumbs in black ink to verify their identity.
"It brings hope," said Mr. Fandiño, a flight attendant, who added that he, like others, had been awakened from a deep political apathy. "It brings a lot of beautiful things to the country, it brings a lot of excitement. Because I'll tell you, a government cannot be in power for so long. Fourteen years? That's not democracy."
Mr. Fandiño, who grew up in the rainy city of San Cristóbal, Venezuela, in what he described as a middle-class family, said he had never voted before. He moved to the United States as a teenager, prompted, he said, by rising violence and declining economic opportunity. Another aunt, who ran a pharmacy, was robbed several times and assaulted. And, he added, a teenage cousin was kidnapped and killed about a decade ago.
By 11:30 a.m., the line of Venezuelans snaked down East 51st Street, curving onto Madison Avenue and then twisting onto East 52nd Street. Many of the voters were students from middle-class and wealthy class families, and they rattled off stories of so-called express kidnappings - in which people are abducted and forced to make purchases or take money out of A.T.M.'s.
Aymara León, a medical technologist who lives in Vorhees, N.J., said she voted for Mr. Chávez in his first campaign, did not vote at all in 2006, and was now firmly for Mr. Capriles.
"I voted for him in 1998 because he was the change," she said of Mr. Chávez, speaking in Spanish. "There was a lot of corruption, he was a young guy, very sensitive, he wasn't from the same government we'd had, but he's turned bad now, power has sickened him."
The Venezuelan community in New York, and in the United States over all, has grown significantly since Mr. Chávez took power, and those who live abroad tend to be from economically mobile families who can afford to move.
Despite election rules that prohibit any campaigning within 650 feet of the consulate, dozens of voters chanted slogans and wore the red, blue and gold baseball caps that had become the trademark of the Capriles campaign.
Directly across the street, a family of four who are supporters of Mr. Chávez calmly made their case for the president.
"Over all we have seen that what he has said, he has done," said Ramiro Villafane, 27, a human resources consultant who lives in Corona, Queens. "He has built houses, he pretty much democratized the health system for all citizens in the country."
His father, also named Ramiro Villafane, was a businessman in Venezuela and now does building maintenance in Queens. He said that many of those voting against Mr. Chávez in New York were college students who had benefited from the education subsidies the president had pushed through.
Mr. Fandiño, after he voted, said he would go home with his family to watch election coverage while his mother made arepas, a traditional Venezuelan cornmeal cake, in this case stuffed with cheese, ham and eggs.
"My mom was actually thinking about doing a paella," said Mr. Fandiño, "and I was like, 'What do you think you are, Spanish?' I'm like 'Make some arepas!' "
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Many expatriates outside the Venezuelan Consulate in Manhattan, above, favored Hugo Chavez's challenger, who lost. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CRIME RATES (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); FAMILY (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); ELECTION LAW (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); MURDER (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (67%); LIBERALISM (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); STEPPARENTS (57%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF THE AMERICAS (54%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



310 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Feisty Debate for Connecticut Senate Candidates

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Facing off in a feisty and highly personal debate on Sunday, the candidates in Connecticut's closely contested race for United States Senate seemed determined to prove that they had gleaned a lesson from President Obama's lethargic performance from last week: attack early and often.
There was scolding, shaming and head-shaking aplenty as Linda E. McMahon, a Republican and former professional wrestling executive, met her Democratic opponent, Representative Christopher S. Murphy, for the first of four face-to-face meetings in a race that could help determine control of the Senate next year.
In her opening statement, Ms. McMahon briefly mentioned her grandchildren and her personal history before asserting that her opponent would ''push our economy off a fiscal cliff.'' Mr. Murphy, not missing a beat, said he would represent the state's middle class, whereas Ms. McMahon ''stands up for herself and her profits.''
The mutual rebukes did not let up, even as the topics wound from tax policy to Medicare to the candidates' personal finances. Each accused the other of dishonesty and of misleading voters. Several times, Ms. McMahon addressed her opponent directly, saying, ''Shame on you.'' Mr. Murphy, for his part, called on voters to ignore advertising from the McMahon campaign that he described as ''personal attacks against me and my family and my wife.''
Ms. McMahon, after falling short two years ago in her bid to defeat Richard Blumenthal, has re-emerged with a concerted appeal to female voters and is attempting to soften her image as a wrestling magnate, instead focusing on her struggles to raise her children after declaring bankruptcy in 1976.
Mr. Murphy, a traditional Democrat in a deep blue state, has the support of labor and women's groups, but he has struggled to dig out from beneath an avalanche of negative advertising financed by tens of millions of dollars from Ms. McMahon's personal fortune.
The contest, for the seat being vacated by Joseph I. Lieberman, is now considered a tossup, and Ms. McMahon, in delivering her most forceful line during Sunday's bout, summarized it thusly: ''When you got into this race, as a Democrat in the state of Connecticut,'' she told Mr. Murphy, ''you thought this was going to be a coronation. But now you are in a serious race with a serious woman.''
Mr. Murphy did not flinch. ''I know she made her living making up stories in the wrestling ring, but it's not O.K. to make them up when you're running for the United States Senate,'' he said at one point, referring to accusations by his opponent that he had received preferential treatment on a mortgage loan.
No single moment appeared to mark a significant shift in the race, though Mr. Murphy's strong criticism seemed to signal that he would no longer sit idly by as his opponent attacked him, as some have criticized his campaign of doing. And Ms. McMahon, less experienced in political debates, had some stumbles.
She seemed befuddled by a question about legalizing same-sex marriage, saying, ''I absolutely support America's law for, you know, same-sex marriage.'' (Mr. Murphy pointed out that such a law does not exist.)
Asked how the poor economy had affected her personally, she would not answer directly, instead discussing the recession's effect on the state. Mr. Murphy was quick to fill in the blank, saying that Ms. McMahon's wrestling company laid off 10 percent of its work force.
While Mr. Murphy showed a command of policy details, Ms. McMahon relentlessly stuck to her talking points, at one point repeating a series of sentences verbatim after an earlier attempt had been drowned out by a moderator. She also needled Mr. Murphy about missing rental and mortgage payments, urging him to ''come clean,'' and criticized him for supporting the president's Affordable Care Act.
Ms. McMahon, who must win over an electorate that is weighted toward the Democrats, declared herself ''an independent thinker'' after Mr. Murphy said she would toe the Republican party line, and she offered an implicit criticism of Mitt Romney's recent remarks, filmed at a fund-raiser, where he referred to 47 percent of the population as dependent on government support.
''The difference between Governor Romney and myself, when he talked about those in poverty, I said they haven't chosen to be there,'' Ms. McMahon said, as she pledged to maintain social safety-net programs for the poor.
Mr. Murphy replied that Ms. McMahon's stated intention to maintain low tax rates for the wealthy meant those programs would have to be reduced.
Later, as the two sparred over Social Security and Medicare, Ms. McMahon cited a repeatedly debunked claim that the president cut $716 billion from Medicare. Mr. Murphy, in response, seized on the opportunity to press a point that the president missed last week.
''President Obama let Mitt Romney get away with the $700 billion lie, and I'm not going to let Linda McMahon get away with it,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Linda E. McMahon, a Republican, and Representative Christopher S. Murphy, her Democratic opponent, at Sunday's debate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WRESTLING (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (74%); WOMEN (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (54%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER S MURPHY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



311 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: Biden Up Next, Obama's Aides Plot Comeback

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and TRIP GABRIEL

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama's campaign is working feverishly to restore its momentum after a lackluster debate performance last week, an effort that began with a conference call 10 minutes before the debate even ended and led to new advertisements, a rewritten stump speech, a carefully timed leak and a reversal of months-old strategy.
Perhaps most important as the president's team struggles to put his campaign back on track is a renewed effort to win the three remaining debates, starting with Thursday's face-off between Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Representative Paul D. Ryan. Mr. Biden began traveling to a Delaware hotel on Sunday for three days of debate camp.
Under the tutelage of David Axelrod, the president's chief strategist who is personally overseeing the preparations, Mr. Biden will be counseled on how to avoid Mr. Obama's mistakes and even correct them with a more aggressive prosecution of the Republican ticket. Mr. Axelrod's involvement highlights the stakes the Obama campaign places on the debate, and Mr. Biden has been reading ''Young Guns,'' the book co-written by Mr. Ryan, and practicing attack lines that Mr. Obama avoided.
The focus on Mr. Biden comes as the campaign tries to diagnose what went wrong in Denver and what to do about it. Advisers had seen two presidents during practice debates, one who had been listless and passive two nights before and another energetic and aggressive the next night. It turned out the former was the one who showed up in Denver. He kept looking down and was not using the lines they had practiced assailing Mitt Romney, who kept the president on the defensive and presented a forceful case against his re-election.
For Mr. Obama, it was arguably the lowest point in his campaign for a second term. The campaign's own focus groups and research indicated that he lost. Mr. Obama did not fully realize as he walked off the stage just how badly it had gone, but aides said he resolved to step up his game. ''He doesn't brood -- he acts,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''Whatever the concerns were about yesterday, he wakes up the next day ready to take it on again.''
On the conference call convened by aides in Denver and Chicago even as the candidates were still on stage, there was no debate in the Obama campaign about the debate. None of the advisers fooled themselves into thinking it was anything but a disaster. Instead, they scrambled for ways to recover. They resolved to go after Mr. Romney with a post-debate assault on his truthfulness. Ad makers were ordered to work all night to produce an attack ad. And they would seize on Mr. Romney's vow to cut financing for Big Bird.
Mr. Obama has been helped by two subsequent events. A labor report on Friday showed that unemployment had dropped to 7.8 percent from 8.1 percent, still historically high but back down to where it was when he took office. And his campaign privately spread the word that fund-raising had soared, giving him a bankroll for a comeback attempt.
But the debate remains a singular event in the life of the campaign, watched by more than 67 million people -- a larger audience than for any of Mr. Obama's 2008 debates, either of his nominating conventions or any of his State of the Union addresses.
Thursday's debate between Mr. Biden and Mr. Ryan may not draw quite the same audience, but both sides view it as critical and are preparing for a contentious clash. ''With Paul Ryan, it's a different dynamic'' than when he debated Sarah Palin in 2008, said Jennifer Granholm, a former Michigan governor who played Ms. Palin in debate practice then. The vice president ''can go hard on policy.''
In rehearsals, Representative Chris Van Hollen, a Maryland Democrat who is playing Mr. Ryan, has mimicked what he considered the Republican's staccato speaking style and penchant for slashing arguments wrapped in a smile. ''I expect the vice president to come at me like a cannonball,'' Mr. Ryan told The Weekly Standard.
Mr. Biden's advisers view Mr. Ryan as a walking encyclopedia of numbers and policy and hope he might get lost in the weeds. ''The key is to be able to cut through the numbers that often don't make sense,'' said Mr. Van Hollen. Also crucial is helping Mr. Biden tame his own loquacious nature and proclivity for gaffes.
The Obama-Biden team approached the debate knowing the perils. History showed that incumbents tended to lose their first debate, both because of their own confidence and the chance for a challenger to appear as an equal to a sitting president.
Like other presidents, Mr. Obama's debate preparations were hindered by his day job, his practice sessions often canceled or truncated because of events, advisers said. One session took place just after he addressed a service for the four Americans slain in Libya, leaving him distracted.
Mr. Obama does not like debates to begin with, aides have long said, viewing them as media-driven gamesmanship. He did not do all that well in 2008 but benefited from Senator John McCain's grumpy performances. Mr. Obama made clear to advisers that he was not happy about debating Mr. Romney, whom he views with disdain. It was something to endure, rather than an opportunity, aides said.
Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts was recruited to play Mr. Romney. The preparation team was kept small. The most important players were Mr. Axelrod; David Plouffe, the president's senior adviser; and Anita Dunn, a former White House communications director. Others included Joel Benenson, the president's pollster; Ronald A. Klain, Mr. Biden's former chief of staff; and Robert Barnett, a longtime Democratic debate coach.
By the time Mr. Obama retreated to Nevada for a final couple days of practice, the debate prep team was getting by on as little as three hours of sleep a night as they crafted answers and attack lines. Mr. Kerry played a range of Mr. Romneys -- aggressive, laid back, hard-edge conservative -- and got in the president's face, according to people in the room. Mr. Obama's alternating performances left aides walking off Air Force One in Denver looking worried.
On stage, Mr. Obama seemed thrown off as Mr. Romney emphasized elements of his agenda that seemed more moderate and was surprised that the moderator, Jim Lehrer of PBS, did not pose more pointed questions. The president's team had decided in advance not to raise Mr. Romney's tenure at Bain Capital, aides said, but Mr. Obama held back on other attack lines they had intended to use. The base wanted him ''to gut Romney,'' one adviser said, but swing voters hate that and he was seeking a balance. Few thought he found it.
Joining the damage-control conference call were Mr. Axelrod, Mr. Plouffe, Jim Messina, the campaign manager, and Stephanie Cutter, his deputy, in Denver; and Ms. Dunn, Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director, and Larry Grisolano, a political adviser, in Chicago. In just minutes, they reversed a longstanding strategic decision; at the start of the campaign they had decided to attack Mr. Romney as a committed conservative rather than a flip-flopper, but now they decided to use his debate statements to argue that he was reinventing himself.
Mr. Obama walked off the stage thinking he at least had gotten in some of his points. ''This was a terrific debate,'' he said in the closing minutes.
''He knew that Romney had had a decent night as well,'' Mr. Axelrod said later. ''But it's very hard when you're standing there. It's hard when you're up there to judge it completely.''
Mr. Obama's advisers were so off balance that they did not show up in the media filing center for the traditional post-debate spin until long after the Republicans. But they were relieved that at least there was no single memorable moment to be used against Mr. Obama in an ad. And they took some solace from focus groups showing that he broke even with Mr. Romney on substance even if he lost over all.
By morning, the Democrats had an ad criticizing Mr. Romney. They had scheduled a morning rally and were surprised that the Romney team had not. As they watched Twitter and some of the entertainment shows on television, they noticed a lot of attention on Mr. Romney's pledge to cut money for public broadcasting, so they added a line to Mr. Obama's speech and dispatched a volunteer in a Big Bird costume to a Romney event.
The president proved as aggressive in his post-debate rallies as he was passive in the debate, but the campaign was besieged by anxious Democrats. Mr. Messina had to pep up a demoralized staff in Chicago. Mr. Obama took the blame during calls with advisers. ''This is on me,'' he told them. Asked by some if Mr. Kerry was at fault, Mr. Obama said no. ''It wasn't Kerry,'' he sad. ''Kerry was fine.''
Beyond the vice-presidential debate, Mr. Obama is focused on his next encounter with Mr. Romney, on Oct. 16; lines unused in Denver may finally be aired in Long Island. But for a hypercompetitive politician, the first debate remains a raw subject. Asked if Mr. Obama was making fun of his performance, one adviser said, ''We're not at that point yet.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. greeting a crowd recently in Boca Raton, Fla., and Representative Paul D. Ryan greeting two nonvoters in Sturtevant, Wis., on Sunday. The first and only debate between the two vice-presidential candidates is on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (77%); FOCUS GROUPS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOE BIDEN (92%); PAUL RYAN (92%); DAVID AXELROD (78%); MITT ROMNEY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (86%) FLORIDA, USA (91%); COLORADO, USA (86%); DELAWARE, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



312 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Where Commerce and Politics Collide

BYLINE: By IAN BREMMER and DAVID GORDON

 BODY:
Whatever happened to the reassuring view that expanding trade ties make for a safer and more prosperous world? This idea has been long present in U.S. strategies toward China, even before being concretized in Robert Zoellick's notion of integrating China into the world financial and commercial systems as a way of promoting ''responsible stakeholdership.''
The Chinese had a parallel concept -- that promoting economic interdependence with America would counter Washington's natural tendency to block China's rise as an alternative power.
But as President Obama and Governor Mitt Romney argue over who can be tougher on China and its trade practices, and as a wave of anti-American nationalism surges across China, the commercial partnership meant to bring Washington and Beijing closer together appears to be pushing the world's two largest economies further apart. Are we headed for some new form of Cold War-style confrontation?
We don't think so. Behind all the finger-pointing and fist-shaking on both sides is a powerful economic interdependence that constrains both countries and was totally missing from U.S.-Soviet relations during the Cold War. What's bad for one economy is still bad for the other, and both Washington and Beijing know it.
With trillions invested in U.S. Treasuries, and the continuing sluggishness of American consumer spending, China has a huge stake in a more robust U.S. recovery. And the prospect of a rapidly growing consumer sector in China creates enormous opportunities for American agriculture and industry.
But macro-economic interdependence brings with it a whole range of tactical tensions -- over exchange rates, intellectual property, investment rules and standard-setting. Yet there is also a more strategic downside to mutually assured economic destruction, because neither side has perfect control over events that might undermine the relationship, and because reduced risk of all-out conflict lets them feel freer to play with fire.
There are a growing number of security risks around the world. In Asia, an expanding U.S. security and commercial presence has China's next generation of leaders on edge, and Beijing finds itself in various forms of direct conflict with many of its neighbors, some of whom are America's strategic allies. In the Middle East, a variety of new actors with competing agendas are jostling to fill emerging power vacuums. In Europe, Germany has taken a leadership role in what is sure to emerge as a quite different continent. In Russia's sphere of influence, a government that faces rising risks at home may well respond more aggressively abroad.
In the past, these sorts of tectonic geopolitical shifts and the uncertainty they create might well have provoked war. But today, the economic dimension is at least as important as military muscle in shaping the balance of power. That makes for more complicated international relationships.
Look more closely at the contradictions. A military rivalry is a zero-sum relationship; what's good for one side is bad for the other. But economic security is good for both. America and China both need oil to flow smoothly from the Middle East and for peace to prevail in the South China Sea. Deepening trade relations give each side a stake in the other's success.
As China and Japan bicker over territorial disputes, both sides are trying to exploit local resentments for political gain. But they share an overriding incentive to protect a deepening economic partnership that reinforces stability at home by enriching them both. Similarly, Turkey and Iran are backing different sides in Syria, but neither will let their bilateral relationship deteriorate too sharply; Iran needs Turkey to go easy on enforcement of sanctions, and Turkey needs Iran to continue selling its natural gas.
However, there are two important reasons why this is not as good as it appears. First, the assurance that all-out war has become so unlikely encourages governments to flirt with economically damaging lower-level conflicts.
If U.S.-China trade relations spiral into various forms of confrontation, the risk of proxy battles in cyberspace will rise sharply, and a more aggressive Chinese approach to territorial disputes with Vietnam, the Philippines and others could draw Washington into fights it hopes to avoid.
If Iran tries to undermine Turkey's opposition to Syria's government by offering clandestine support for Kurdish separatists inside Turkey, the trouble between Ankara and Tehran could escalate to levels that neither can manage. Regional war in Asia or the Middle East remains extremely unlikely, but a constant state of tension will have an economic impact.
Second, conflicts can take on a life of their own. Beijing may discover over time that it's becoming much more difficult to keep a lid on the crowds it riles up for geopolitical advantage, and Japanese leaders may talk themselves into conflicts from which they can't easily back down. Arab world animosities may grow beyond the ability of inexperienced new governments to control.
Governments around the world face much more complicated challenges than the Cold War could offer, and economic interdependence can create joint vulnerability. The risk of superpower nuclear war is much lower, but there is little to protect one side's security from volatility on the other.
Following the leadership transition in Beijing and the presidential election in America, both China and the United States need to reinvigorate their top-level dialogue, and pay more attention to ensuring that domestic politics does not overcome the incentives for conflict avoidance that mutually assured economic destruction has created.
Ian Bremmer is president of Eurasia Group and author of ''Every Nation for Itself: Winners and Losers in a G-Zero World.''David Gordon is head of research at Eurasia Group and former director of policy planning at the State Department.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLD WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (50%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (73%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



313 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM WASHINGTON; Pg. 

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Romney Is No Reagan

BYLINE: By ALBERT R. HUNT | BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Mitt Romney's winning performance in the presidential debate has reinforced his campaign's belief that this election parallels the one in 1980: In troubled times, Republicans inevitably defeat an unpopular Democratic president.
While Mr. Romney gets to hit the reset button after President Barack Obama's desultory display, he'd better not count on the 1980 analogy. Ronald Reagan's victory over President Jimmy Carter was not inevitable; it was earned, with some help from outsiders. The environment was far less hospitable for the incumbent president in 1980 than it is today.
Looking at the three major elements of any presidential contest -- the candidate and campaign, the conditions, and the electorate -- underscores the Republican's challenge in replicating the Reagan victory this year. Mr. Obama is a better candidate than Mr. Carter was. Mr. Romney is no Mr. Reagan.
To be sure, the architects of the Carter campaign in 1980 were a little better than their Reagan counterparts and probably better than the Obama team this year. And Mr. Reagan made some major mistakes, like warning about the environmental damage caused by trees. He dispatched his running mate, George H.W. Bush, to China to burnish the ticket's foreign policy credentials even as he expressed support for Taiwan, resulting in a debacle reminiscent of Mr. Romney's overseas travels this summer.
Yet, at crucial times, Mr. Reagan was also capable of inspiring moments; his eloquent convention speech gave him a big advantage in polls, in sharp contrast to Mr. Romney's address this year. In the close of his debate with the president, after being on the defensive for much of the evening, Mr. Reagan blew Mr. Carter away.
And Mr. Carter matched Mr. Reagan mistake for mistake. Less than four weeks before the election, the Democrats had to arrange a special TV interview during which the president promised to cut out his mean rhetoric. After facing Senator Edward M. Kennedy in a bruising nomination battle, he was leading a divided party.
For all the talk about a lousy economic environment this year, things were much worse 32 years ago. The jobless rate had remained at the 7.5 percent level that Mr. Carter had inherited (slightly lower than the 7.8 percent today). For the past three years, inflation and interest rates have been remarkably low and stable. Under Mr. Carter, the inflation rate more than doubled to 12.6 percent. A metric known as the Misery Index, the combination of inflation and unemployment, topped 20 percent on Election Day in 1980. Today, it is 9.5 percent.
The interest-rate picture was worse. Home mortgage rates almost doubled, and the federal funds rate tripled. The month before the election, Mr. Carter had a job approval rating of 37 percent; Mr. Obama's hovers around 50 percent.
Republicans now are trying to make the case that the tragedy in Libya, where lax security may have contributed to the killing of the U.S. ambassador, underscores Mr. Obama's weakness on national security. That is a tough sell against the commander in chief who ordered the successful mission to kill Osama bin Laden.
And it does not begin to compare to the charges made against Mr. Carter in 1980, when 52 Americans were held hostage for 444 days after the takeover of the U.S. Embassy in Tehran. ABC News broadcast an award-winning nightly program on the crisis called ''America Held Hostage,'' with each episode's subtitle counting the number of days since the crisis began. The charge that the United States was impotent resonated in those Cold War days.
The demographics of the electorate have also shifted dramatically. In Mr. Reagan's victory, 88 percent of voters were white. In November, that number will most likely be closer to 74 percent, and the president is expected to capture about 80 percent of the nonwhite vote. Young voters split in the earlier election; this year, turned off by what they see as the Republican Party's intolerance, they will vote decisively for Mr. Obama.
Even with these advantages, Mr. Reagan struggled in the fall of 1980. Three weeks before the election, his pollster, Richard B. Wirthlin, in a private campaign survey, found Mr. Carter ahead by two points.
It was Mr. Reagan's command at the end of the final debate, his strength as a closing candidate and, perhaps most of all, the Iranians' pulling out the rug from under Mr. Carter on the eve of the election that settled the contest.
Mr. Reagan trimmed some of his harder-line conservative positions in the general election. He altered his opposition to government aid for New York City and Chrysler and enlisted establishment Republicans like Henry Kissinger and Alan Greenspan.
These changes pale in comparison to Mr. Romney's complete transformation since he first decided to run for president six years ago: He turned from a supporter of immigration overhaul to an immigration basher; from a champion of stem cell research to an opponent; and, most recently, he has moved away from the position on tax cuts he espoused in the primaries.
In the end, Mr. Reagan persuaded voters he had core principles and an ability to lead the country. One minor triumph in a debate is only a small step if Mr. Romney is to accomplish a similar journey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); INFLATION (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (67%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (65%); MORTGAGE RATES (60%); HOUSING MARKET (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JIMMY CARTER (89%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



314 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Desperately Chasing Jobs in a Polarized Wisconsin Town

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

 BODY:
In 2008, Brad Lichtenstein began filming a modest documentary about the effects of the recession, specifically the closing of a General Motors plant, on Janesville, Wis., a small Midwestern city. That's how he found himself, a few years later, with an up-close view of one of the meanest and most dramatic chapters in recent American politics: the battle over collective-bargaining rights for Wisconsin state employees and the subsequent effort to recall the Republican governor, Scott Walker, from office.
His film, ''As Goes Janesville,'' which has its premiere on Monday night in the PBS documentary series ''Independent Lens,'' remains modest. And it seems likely that the plight of former workers at the Janesville assembly plant receives less attention than Mr. Lichtenstein originally planned to give them. The trade-off is that the film has a narrative drive unusual for a 60-minute television documentary, pulling us along like a political thriller.
Mr. Lichtenstein tells a complicated story with an interlocking cast of characters. Representing the original thrust of the documentary are two former Janesville autoworkers. One leaves her family during the week to work at another General Motors plant four hours away; the other goes back to school to become a lab technician, a job that will pay 80 percent of what she used to make.
Two local businesswomen, meanwhile, spearhead a marketing campaign to make the Janesville area attractive to businesses. They zero in on a medical-supplies company looking for a place to build a factory that may employ 120 people if the company can come up with a product to produce there. Despite the uncertainties of the project, the city is asked to chip in $9 million in incentives, representing, according to one City Council member, 20 percent of the municipal budget.
No one says so on screen, but the energy and political capital expended on those 120 potential jobs are a sign of how desperate things are in Janesville and surrounding Rock County, where the closing of the auto plant is estimated to have cost 11,000 jobs. (The film makes no reference to Representative Paul D. Ryan, the Republican candidate for vice president, who was born and reared in Janesville and still lives there with his family.)
The supporters of the medical-supplies project are also fervent supporters of Mr. Walker's campaign for governor in 2010, and he repays them, speaking at Janesville's annual business banquet. Mr. Lichtenstein catches one of the businesswomen asking him, ''Any chance we'll ever get to be a completely red,'' right-to-work state? The first step, he tells her, is to take on the public-employee unions over collective bargaining. ''Divide and conquer,'' he says.
From there the film becomes immersed in the statewide battles and its true hero emerges, a Rock County Democratic politician named Tim Cullen, who leaves retirement to run again for the State Senate and to try to work constructively with the new Republican majority. Mr. Cullen projects the decency and civic-mindedness of the Frank Capra-era Jimmy Stewart, even when we see him in Illinois, where he's fled along with other Democratic senators in an unsuccessful attempt to stop the governor's budget bill.
Sitting in the Legislature, where Democratic amendments are routinely ignored, Mr. Cullen says, ''I'm learning that it's a different Wisconsin.'' This comes home for the viewer, though, in a later scene where Mr. Cullen asks a hectoring crowd to show the governor some respect and is called ''despicable'' by a protester for his trouble. At which point you might think, as goes Wisconsin ... .
Independent Lens
As Goes Janesville
On PBS stations on Monday night (check local listings).
Produced by 371 Productions, Kartemquin Films and the Independent Television Service. Directed and produced by Brad Lichtenstein.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE FILMING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); CLOSINGS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); BEGINNING OF FILMING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (76%); POLITICS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); CITIES (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (69%); RIGHT TO WORK LAWS (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); SCOTT WALKER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



315 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Truth About Jobs

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
If anyone had doubts about the madness that has spread through a large part of the American political spectrum, the reaction to Friday's better-than expected report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics should have settled the issue. For the immediate response of many on the right -- and we're not just talking fringe figures -- was to cry conspiracy.
Leading the charge of what were quickly dubbed the ''B.L.S. truthers'' was none other than Jack Welch, the former chairman of General Electric, who posted an assertion on Twitter that the books had been cooked to help President Obama's re-election campaign. His claim was quickly picked up by right-wing pundits and media personalities.
It was nonsense, of course. Job numbers are prepared by professional civil servants, at an agency that currently has no political appointees. But then maybe Mr. Welch -- under whose leadership G.E. reported remarkably smooth earnings growth, with none of the short-term fluctuations you might have expected (fluctuations that reappeared under his successor) -- doesn't know how hard it would be to cook the jobs data.
Furthermore, the methods the bureau uses are public -- and anyone familiar with the data understands that they are ''noisy,'' that especially good (or bad) months will be reported now and then as a simple consequence of statistical randomness. And that in turn means that you shouldn't put much weight on any one month's report.
In that case, however, what is the somewhat longer-term trend? Is the U.S. employment picture getting better? Yes, it is.
Some background: the monthly employment report is based on two surveys. One asks a random sample of employers how many people are on their payroll. The other asks a random sample of households whether their members are working or looking for work. And if you look at the trend over the past year or so, both surveys suggest a labor market that is gradually on the mend, with job creation consistently exceeding growth in the working-age population.
On the employer side, the current numbers say that over the past year the economy added 150,000 jobs a month, and revisions will probably push that number up significantly. That's well above the 90,000 or so added jobs per month that we need to keep up with population. (This number used to be higher, but underlying work force growth has dropped off sharply now that many baby boomers are reaching retirement age.)
Meanwhile, the household survey produces estimates of both the number of Americans employed and the number unemployed, defined as people who are seeking work but don't currently have a job. The eye-popping number from Friday's report was a sudden drop in the unemployment rate to 7.8 percent from 8.1 percent, but as I said, you shouldn't put too much emphasis on one month's number. The more important point is that unemployment has been on a sustained downward trend.
But isn't that just because people have given up looking for work, and hence no longer count as unemployed? Actually, no. It's true that the employment-population ratio -- the percentage of adults with jobs -- has been more or less flat for the past year. But remember those aging baby boomers: the fraction of American adults who are in their prime working years is falling fast. Once you take the effects of an aging population into account, the numbers show a substantial improvement in the employment picture since the summer of 2011.
None of this should be taken to imply that the situation is good, or to deny that we should be doing better -- a shortfall largely due to the scorched-earth tactics of Republicans, who have blocked any and all efforts to accelerate the pace of recovery. (If the American Jobs Act, proposed by the Obama administration last year, had been passed, the unemployment rate would probably be below 7 percent.) The U.S. economy is still far short of where it should be, and the job market has a long way to go before it makes up the ground lost in the Great Recession. But the employment data do suggest an economy that is slowly healing, an economy in which declining consumer debt burdens and a housing revival have finally put us on the road back to full employment.
And that's the truth that the right can't handle. The furor over Friday's report revealed a political movement that is rooting for American failure, so obsessed with taking down Mr. Obama that good news for the nation's long-suffering workers drives its members into a blind rage. It also revealed a movement that lives in an intellectual bubble, dealing with uncomfortable reality -- whether that reality involves polls or economic data -- not just by denying the facts, but by spinning wild conspiracy theories.
It is, quite simply, frightening to think that a movement this deranged wields so much political power.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRENDS (89%); STATISTICAL METHOD (89%); JOB CREATION (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); RETIREMENT AGE (63%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (63%); BABY BOOMERS (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: JACK WELCH (70%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



316 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; IECONOMY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4894 words

HEADLINE: The Patent, Used as a Sword

BYLINE: By CHARLES DUHIGG and STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
When Apple announced last year that all iPhones would come with a voice-activated assistant named Siri, capable of answering spoken questions, Michael Phillips's heart sank.
For three decades, Mr. Phillips had focused on writing software to allow computers to understand human speech. In 2006, he had co-founded a voice recognition company, and eventually executives at Apple, Google and elsewhere proposed partnerships. Mr. Phillips's technology was even integrated into Siri itself before the digital assistant was absorbed into the iPhone.
But in 2008, Mr. Phillips's company, Vlingo, had been contacted by a much larger voice recognition firm called Nuance. ''I have patents that can prevent you from practicing in this market,'' Nuance's chief executive, Paul Ricci, told Mr. Phillips, according to executives involved in that conversation.
Mr. Ricci issued an ultimatum: Mr. Phillips could sell his firm to Mr. Ricci or be sued for patent infringements. When Mr. Phillips refused to sell, Mr. Ricci's company filed the first of six lawsuits.
Soon after, Apple and Google stopped returning phone calls. The company behind Siri switched its partnership from Mr. Phillips to Mr. Ricci's firm. And the millions of dollars Mr. Phillips had set aside for research and development were redirected to lawyers and court fees.
When the first lawsuit went to trial last year, Mr. Phillips won. In the companies' only courtroom face-off, a jury ruled that Mr. Phillips had not infringed on a broad voice recognition patent owned by Mr. Ricci's company.
But it was too late. The suit had cost $3 million, and the financial damage was done. In December, Mr. Phillips agreed to sell his company to Mr. Ricci. ''We were on the brink of changing the world before we got stuck in this legal muck,'' Mr. Phillips said.
Mr. Phillips and Vlingo are among the thousands of executives and companies caught in a software patent system that federal judges, economists, policy makers and technology executives say is so flawed that it often stymies innovation.
Alongside the impressive technological advances of the last two decades, they argue, a pall has descended: the marketplace for new ideas has been corrupted by software patents used as destructive weapons.
Vlingo was a tiny upstart on this battlefield, but as recent litigation involving Apple and Samsung shows, technology giants have also waged wars among themselves.
In the smartphone industry alone, according to a Stanford University analysis, as much as $20 billion was spent on patent litigation and patent purchases in the last two years -- an amount equal to eight Mars rover missions. Last year, for the first time, spending by Apple and Google on patent lawsuits and unusually big-dollar patent purchases exceeded spending on research and development of new products, according to public filings.
Patents are vitally important to protecting intellectual property. Plenty of creativity occurs within the technology industry, and without patents, executives say they could never justify spending fortunes on new products. And academics say that some aspects of the patent system, like protections for pharmaceuticals, often function smoothly.
However, many people argue that the nation's patent rules, intended for a mechanical world, are inadequate in today's digital marketplace. Unlike patents for new drug formulas, patents on software often effectively grant ownership of concepts, rather than tangible creations. Today, the patent office routinely approves patents that describe vague algorithms or business methods, like a software system for calculating online prices, without patent examiners demanding specifics about how those calculations occur or how the software operates.
As a result, some patents are so broad that they allow patent holders to claim sweeping ownership of seemingly unrelated products built by others. Often, companies are sued for violating patents they never knew existed or never dreamed might apply to their creations, at a cost shouldered by consumers in the form of higher prices and fewer choices.
''There's a real chaos,'' said Richard A. Posner, a federal appellate judge who has helped shape patent law, in an interview. ''The standards for granting patents are too loose.''
Almost every major technology company is involved in ongoing patent battles, but the most significant player is Apple, industry executives say, because of its influence and the size of its claims: in August in California, the company won a $1 billion patent infringement judgment against Samsung. Former Apple employees say senior executives made a deliberate decision over the last decade, after Apple was a victim of patent attacks, to use patents as leverage against competitors to the iPhone, the company's biggest source of profits.
Apple has filed multiple suits against three companies -- HTC, Samsung and Motorola Mobility, now part of Google -- that today are responsible for more than half of all smartphone sales in the United States. If Apple's claims -- which include ownership of minor elements like rounded square icons and of more fundamental smartphone technologies -- prevail, it will most likely force competitors to overhaul how they design phones, industry experts say.
HTC, Samsung, Motorola and others have filed numerous suits of their own, also trying to claim ownership of market-changing technologies.
While Apple and other major companies have sometimes benefited from this war, so have smaller partners. In 2010, Apple acquired Siri Inc., the company behind the software of the same name. The stock price of Mr. Ricci's company, Nuance, which had by then become Siri's partner, rose by more than 70 percent as iPhone sales skyrocketed. Some former executives at Vlingo, Nuance's old rival, remain bitter.
''We had spent $3 million to win one patent trial, and had five more to go,'' said a former Vlingo executive who spoke on condition of anonymity because he had signed confidentiality agreements. ''We had the better product, but it didn't matter, because this system is so completely broken.''
Mr. Ricci declined to be interviewed. Others at Nuance said they were simply protecting their intellectual property.
''Our responsibility is to follow the law,'' said Lee Patch, a vice president at Nuance. ''That's what we do. It's not our fault if some people don't like the system.''
Today, Nuance is a giant in voice recognition. Apple is the most valuable company in the world. And the iPhone is wrapped in thousands of patents that keep companies in numerous court battles.
''Apple has always stood for innovation,'' the company wrote in a statement in response to questions from The New York Times. ''To protect our inventions, we have patented many of the new technologies in these groundbreaking and category-defining products. In the rare cases when we take legal action over a patent dispute, it's only as a last resort.
''We think companies should dream up their own products rather than willfully copying ours, and in August a jury in California reached the same conclusion,'' the statement said.
At a technology conference this year, Apple's chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, said patent battles had not slowed innovation at the company, but acknowledged that some aspects of the battles had ''kind of gotten crazy.''
''There's some of this that is maddening,'' he said. ''It's a waste; it's a time suck.''
The evolution of Apple into one of the industry's patent warriors gained momentum, like many things within the company, with a terse order from its chief executive, Steven P. Jobs.
A Patent Warrior's Education
It was 2006, and Apple was preparing to unveil the first iPhone. Life inside company headquarters, former executives said, had become a frenzy of programming sessions and meetings between engineers and executives. And, increasingly, patent lawyers.
Just months earlier, Apple reluctantly agreed to pay $100 million to Creative Technology, a Singapore-based company. Five years before, Creative applied for a broad software patent for a ''portable music playback device'' that bore minor similarities to the iPod, an Apple product that had gone on sale the same year. Once the patent was granted to Creative, it became a license to sue.
Apple settled three months after Creative went to court. ''Creative is very fortunate to have been granted this early patent,'' Mr. Jobs said in a statement announcing the settlement in 2006.
Privately, Mr. Jobs gathered his senior managers. While Apple had long been adept at filing patents, when it came to the new iPhone, ''we're going to patent it all,'' he declared, according to a former executive who, like other former employees, requested anonymity because of confidentiality agreements.
''His attitude was that if someone at Apple can dream it up, then we should apply for a patent, because even if we never build it, it's a defensive tool,'' said Nancy R. Heinen, Apple's general counsel until 2006.
Soon, Apple's engineers were asked to participate in monthly ''invention disclosure sessions.'' One day, a group of software engineers met with three patent lawyers, according to a former Apple patent lawyer who was at the meeting.
The first engineer discussed a piece of software that studied users' preferences as they browsed the Web.
''That's a patent,'' a lawyer said, scribbling notes.
Another engineer described a slight modification to a popular application.
''That's a patent,'' the lawyer said.
Another engineer mentioned that his team had streamlined some software.
''That's another one,'' the lawyer said.
''Even if we knew it wouldn't get approved, we would file the application anyway,'' the former Apple lawyer said in an interview. ''If nothing else, it prevents another company from trying to patent the idea.''
The disclosure session had yielded more than a dozen potential patents when an engineer, an Apple veteran, spoke up. ''I would like to decline to participate,'' he said, according to the lawyer who was at the meeting. The engineer explained that he didn't believe companies should be allowed to own basic software concepts.
It is a complaint heard throughout the industry. The increasing push to assert ownership of broad technologies has led to a destructive arms race, engineers say. Some point to so-called patent trolls, companies that exist solely to sue over patent violations. Others say big technology companies have also exploited the system's weaknesses.
''There are hundreds of ways to write the same computer program,'' said James Bessen, a legal expert at Harvard. And so patent applications often try to encompass every potential aspect of a new technology. When such applications are approved, Mr. Bessen said, ''the borders are fuzzy, so it's really easy to accuse others of trespassing on your ideas.''
The number of patent applications, computer-related and otherwise, filed each year at the United States patent office has increased by more than 50 percent over the last decade to more than 540,000 in 2011. Google has received 2,700 patents since 2000, according to the patent analysis firm M-CAM. Microsoft has received 21,000.
In the last decade, the number of patent applications submitted by Apple each year has risen almost tenfold. The company has won ownership of pinching a screen to zoom in, of using magnets to affix a cover to a tablet computer and of the glass staircases in Apple stores. It has received more than 4,100 patents since 2000, according to M-CAM.
And as patent portfolios have expanded, so have pressures to use them against competitors.
In March 2010, Apple sued HTC, a Taiwanese smartphone manufacturer that had partnered with Google. Apple did not talk to HTC before suing. Negotiations were not part of the strategy, according to a former executive. ''Google was the enemy, the real target,'' the executive said.
It was one of seven major smartphone and patent-related lawsuits Apple has initiated since 2006. The suits have focused on two large companies, HTC and Samsung, both Google partners, which together account for 39 percent of American smartphone sales. Apple has also filed countersuits against Nokia, as well as against Motorola Mobility, which is now owned by Google and accounts for 12 percent of sales.
In addition, the company has filed two declaratory judgment actions asking the courts to rule on the provenance and validity of patents. Over the same period, Apple itself has been sued 135 times, mostly by patent trolls interested in its deep pockets.
Apple is not alone. The number of patent lawsuits filed in United States district courts each year has almost tripled in the last two decades to 3,260 in 2010, the last year for which federal data is available. Microsoft has sued Motorola; Motorola has sued Apple and Research in Motion; Research in Motion has sued Visto, a mobile technology company; and in August, Google, through its Motorola unit, sued Apple, contending that Siri had infringed on its patents. (Google dropped the suit last week, leaving open the possibility of refiling at a later date.) All of those companies have also been sued numerous times by trolls.
Patents for software and some kinds of electronics, particularly smartphones, are now so problematic that they contribute to a so-called patent tax that adds as much as 20 percent to companies' research and development costs, according to a study conducted last year by two Boston University professors.
Supporters of suits initiated by Apple say that the litigation is vital to the company's success and that Apple is sued far more often than it sues, as do all major tech firms.
''If we can't protect our intellectual property, then we won't spend millions creating products like the iPhone,'' a former Apple executive said, noting that some of Apple's patents, like the ''slide to unlock'' feature on the iPhone, took years to perfect. The concept ''might seem obvious now, but that's only after we spent millions figuring it out,'' the executive said. ''Other companies shouldn't be able to steal that without compensating us. That's why the patent system exists.''
But others challenge that logic, given the huge profits the technology industry enjoys. Apple collects more than $1 billion a week in iPhone and related sales. ''I am skeptical whether patents are needed in the software industry to provide adequate incentives,'' Judge Posner wrote in an e-mail.
One consequence of all this litigation, policy makers and academics say, is that patent disputes are suffocating the culture of start-ups that has long fueled job growth and technological innovation.
''Think of the billions of dollars being flushed down the toilet,'' said Ms. Heinen, the former Apple general counsel, who left the company and paid $2.2 million in connection with a federal investigation of stock option backdating. ''When patent lawyers become rock stars, it's a bad sign for where an industry is heading,'' she said, adding that she had no issue with the lawyers themselves.
There are some indications that the big companies themselves are growing weary of this warfare.
In its response to The Times, Apple addressed ''standards-essential'' patents, which companies are obligated to license to competitors at reasonable rates, and wrote that it was ''deeply concerned by the rampant abuse of standards-essential patents by some of our competitors.''
''Standards-essential patents are technologies which these companies have volunteered to license to anyone for a reasonable fee,'' the statement said, ''but instead of negotiating with Apple, they've chosen to sue us.'' Samsung, Motorola, Nokia and HTC have sued Apple, claiming it violated standards-essential patents.
Another sign of fatigue is the frequency with which executives and lawyers from Apple and Google speak to one another about patent disputes. Earlier this year, Google proposed a cease-fire, according to people familiar with the conversations. And when Google withdrew its Motorola suit last week, it was widely seen as a peace gesture.
But Apple has been hard to pin down, said one person from Google who was not authorized to speak publicly. ''Sometimes they're asking for money. Then they say we have to promise to not copy aspects of the iPhone. And whenever we get close to an agreement, it all changes again.
''Our feeling is they don't really want this to end. As long as everyone is distracted by these trials, the iPhone continues to sell.''
Apple declined to comment on the negotiations.
The Patent Bureaucracy
The application by Apple that eventually became patent 8,086,604 first crossed desks at the Patent and Trademark Office on a winter day in 2004.
In the next two years, a small cast of officials spent about 23 hours -- the time generally allotted for reviewing a new application -- examining the three dozen pages before recommending rejection. The application, for a voice- and text-based search engine, was ''an obvious variation'' on existing ideas, a patent examiner named Raheem Hoffler wrote. Over the next five years, Apple modified and resubmitted the application eight times -- and each time it was rejected by the patent office.
Until last year.
On its 10th attempt, Apple got patent 8,086,604 approved. Today, though the patent was not among those Vlingo and Nuance fought over, it is known as the Siri patent because it is widely viewed as one of the linchpins of Apple's strategy to protect its smartphone technologies.
In February, the company deployed this new patent in a continuing lawsuit against Samsung that could radically reorder the $200 billion smartphone business by giving Apple effective ownership of now-commonplace technologies, software experts say.
Patent 8,086,604's path to approval ''shows there's a lot wrong with the process,'' said Arti K. Rai, an intellectual property expert at Duke University School of Law who reviewed the patent application for The Times. That patent, like numerous others, is an example of how companies can file an application again and again until they win approval, Ms. Rai said.
When Apple submitted the first application for 8,086,604, the iPhone and Siri did not exist. The application was aspirational: it described a theoretical ''universal interface'' that would allow people to search across various mediums, like the Internet, corporate databases and computer hard drives, without having to use multiple search engines. It outlined how such software might function, but it did not offer specifics about how to build it. It suggested that some people might speak a search phrase rather than use a keyboard.
The ideas contained in the application would blossom at Apple, Google, Microsoft, Nuance, Vlingo and dozens of other companies. All the while, the application traveled quietly through the patent office, where officials rejected it twice in 2007, three times in 2008, once in 2009, twice in 2010 and once in 2011.
The patent office has a reputation for being overworked, understaffed and plagued by employee turnover, and employees concede that some of their work is subjective.
''When I get an application, I basically have two days to research and write a 10- to 20-page term paper on why I think it should be approved or rejected,'' said Robert Budens, a 22-year patent examiner and president of the examiners' labor union. ''I'm not going to pretend like we get it right every time.''
To receive a patent, an invention must be novel (substantially different from what exists), not obvious (one can't patent a new toaster simply by expanding it to handle five slices of bread), and useful (someone can't patent an invisibility machine if invisibility is impossible).
''If you give the same application to 10 different examiners, you'll get 10 different results,'' said Raymond Persino, a patent lawyer who worked as an examiner from 1998 to 2005.
After patent 8,086,604 was first rejected in 2007, Apple's lawyers made small adjustments to the application, changing the word ''documents'' to ''items of information'' and inserting the phrase ''heuristic modules'' to refer to bits of software code. A few years later, the inclusion of the word ''predetermined'' further narrowed Apple's approach.
These changes had little substantial impact, said experts who reviewed the application for The Times. But the patent office slowly began to come around to Apple's point of view.
Though submitting an application repeatedly can incur large legal fees, it is often effective. About 70 percent of patent applications are eventually approved after an applicant has altered claims, tinkered with language or worn down the patent examiners.
One consequence is that patents are sometimes granted for ideas that already exist.
In 1999, for instance, two men received a patent for a crustless, sealed peanut butter and jelly sandwich. (The J. M. Smucker company acquired the patent and used it to sue other food makers. In 2007, after press scrutiny, federal officials canceled the patent.)
A year earlier, the patent office had awarded an Illinois company effective ownership of many of the basic systems that power the Internet. That firm sued a number of tech giants, persuading many to sign multimillion-dollar settlements, until a jury declared some of the patents invalid last year.
For Apple's 8,086,604, the examiners finally relented last December and issued a patent.
''Apple got another warhead in its arsenal, but there's no big invention here,'' said David J. Pratt, president of M-CAM, the patent analysis firm, who analyzed the application for The Times.
The patent office declined to discuss 8,086,604. Officials pointed out that the agency's 7,650 examiners received more than half a million applications last year, and the numbers have kept climbing.
By all accounts, there have been improvements in the patent office since David J. Kappos took over as director in 2009. In an interview, Mr. Kappos said the lengthy back-and-forth between examiners and Apple was evidence that the system worked.
''It's called the patent office,'' he said, noting that issuing patents is the agency's job. In a statement, the agency said it had spent the last three years strengthening policies to improve patent quality. Besides, Mr. Kappos said, ''we realize that only a handful of these patents will be really important.''
However, patent 8,086,604 has proved very important. In February, Apple sued Samsung in a California court, arguing that 17 of Samsung's smartphones and tablets violated 8,086,604. In June, a judge banned sales of Samsung's Galaxy Nexus phone, validating 8,086,604 and ruling that the phone infringed on Apple's patent because it featured a ''Google quick search box'' that allowed users to enter one search term, either typed or spoken, that returned results simultaneously from the Internet, contacts stored on the phone and recently visited Web sites. (The ban has been stayed while under appeal.)
Searching for Fixes
Some experts worry that Apple's broad patents may give the company control of technologies that, over the last seven years, have been independently developed at dozens of companies and have become central to many devices.
''Apple could get a chokehold on the smartphone industry,'' said Tim O'Reilly, a publisher of computer guides and a software patent critic. ''A patent is a government-sanctioned monopoly, and we should be very cautious about handing those out.''
Others say the system works fine.
''Intellectual property is property, just like a house, and its owners deserve protection,'' said Jay P. Kesan, a law professor at the University of Illinois. ''We have rules in place, and they're getting better.
''And if someone gets a bad patent, so what?'' he said. ''You can request a re-examination. You can go to court to invalidate the patent. Even rules that need improvements are better than no rules at all.''
Five years ago, Congress was debating how to fix the patent system when an inventor named Stephen G. Perlman went to Capitol Hill.
Mr. Perlman worked at Apple in the 1980s. Today, he runs a start-up incubator called Rearden in San Francisco. He holds 100 patents -- including for the software behind the reverse aging in the film ''The Curious Case of Benjamin Button'' -- and has about 100 more applications pending.
Patents are crucial to his business, Mr. Perlman said, particularly in raising money from venture capitalists and deterring large companies from copying his innovations. ''When we file a patent application, it's a big deal,'' he said.
When Mr. Perlman went to Congress, he brought ideas to protect small inventors. He wasn't alone in suggesting solutions. Thousands of companies, from start-ups like Vlingo to large technology firms, have argued that a well-functioning patent system is essential to their success. The problems with the current system are so pervasive, they say, that the courts, lawmakers and Silicon Valley must find their own fixes.
One option is judicial activism. This year, Judge Posner, in an Illinois federal court, tossed out patent arguments made by both Apple and Motorola Mobility in a 38-page opinion that dismissed a lawsuit between the two companies. Cleaning up the patent mess, Judge Posner said in an interview, might also require reducing the duration of patents on digital technologies, which can be as long as 20 years. ''That would make a big difference,'' he said. ''After five years, these patents are mainly traps for the unwary.''
Ideas have also come from policy experts and Silicon Valley. The Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis recently published a working paper calling for the abolition of patents, saying they do more harm than good.
Another idea is to create different classes of patents, so that some kinds of inventions, like pharmaceuticals, would receive 20 years of ironclad protection, while others, like software, would receive shorter and more flexible terms.
A third suggestion was made by the Internet company Twitter, which released an ''Innovator's Patent Agreement'' this year intended to give software engineers some control over how their creations are used. Under the terms of the agreement, companies pledge that patents will be used only for defensive purposes.
''We're just trying to do something modest,'' said Benjamin Lee, Twitter's legal counsel.
Similarly, law school faculty at the University of California, Berkeley, have proposed a ''Defensive Patent License'' in which companies would contribute patents to a common pool that shielded participants from litigious aggressors. Companies would be allowed to participate as long as they did not become first-strike plaintiffs. The benefit is that ''you don't have to worry about your patent being weaponized'' and used to attack competitors, said Jason M. Schultz, an assistant professor who helped design the license.
But to really make a difference, such ideas require the participation of large technology companies, and the incentives to cooperate are small. So some frustrated engineers have become outspoken advocates for reform.
Mr. Perlman, the independent inventor, for instance, was hopeful his voice would be heard on Capitol Hill. But alongside Mr. Perlman were hundreds of lobbyists from high-tech corporations and the pharmaceutical industry, which often push conflicting proposals. Big technology companies, in general, want to limit the financial damages juries can award for minor patent violations, while drug makers want to make sure they can sue for billions of dollars if a single patent is violated.
These and dozens of other narrow battles have paralyzed Congress's ability to make real changes, lawmakers and lobbyists say. The last attempt, the America Invents Act, which was passed last year, achieved mostly administrative fixes, like making it easier for outsiders to challenge a patent's validity.
The new law did make one fundamental change. Since the patent system was overseen by Thomas Jefferson, the United States has awarded ownership of an innovation to whoever created the first prototype, a policy known as ''first to invent.'' Under the America Invents Act, ownership will be awarded to whoever submits the first application, or ''first to file.''
The shift, inventors like Mr. Perlman say, makes life harder for small entrepreneurs. Large companies with battalions of lawyers can file thousands of pre-emptive patent applications in emerging industries. Start-ups, lacking similar resources, will find themselves easy prey once their products show promise.
That is the concern of people like Mr. Phillips, the voice recognition specialist and one-time Siri partner who founded Vlingo. ''Start-ups are where progress occurs,'' he said in an interview. ''If you spend all your time in court, you can't create much technology.''
In June, Mr. Phillips started work at his new employer, and former courtroom adversary, Nuance. Theoretically, his job was to help manage the companies' integration and find new technological frontiers to explore. With a background at M.I.T. and Carnegie Mellon, he is widely acknowledged as one of the most innovative thinkers in computer speech.
But he spent much of the summer on vacation, recuperating from the last six bruising years. And in September, he quit. He plans to leave voice recognition altogether, he has told friends, and find an industry with less treacherous patent terrain.
The iEconomy: Articles in this series are examining challenges posed by increasingly globalized high-tech industries.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A display of giant iPhones at the Los Angeles County Fair. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
The United States Patent and Trademark Office in Alexandria, Va. The office is known for being understaffed and plagued by turnover, and employees concede that some of their work is subjective. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)
RICHARD A. POSNER, federal appellate judge (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHAN WEBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) GRAPHICS: From Models to Flowcharts: When the nation's patent system was born, most inventions were mechanical. Some say the patent system now struggles in a digital world, where innovations like software are often based on abstract concepts. The patent office initially refused to patent most software, arguing that it was an idea or law of nature, like math. But several court cases changed that view, and today software patents are often so broad and vague that they theoretically give inventors ownership over much more than a single invention. (Sources: U.S. Patent and Trademark Office) (A14)
 Fighters in a Patent War: Apple has been involved in 142 smartphone patent lawsuits -- and in six instances, suits with multiple plaintiffs -- since 2006. A majority of patent suits within the smartphone industry are filed by so-called trolls, companies that exist solely to sue. But tech giants have also traded lawsuits among themselves. (Source: LexMachina) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); VOICE RECOGNITION (90%); PATENTS (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (88%); PATENT LAW (88%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (74%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (74%); JURY TRIALS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); LAWYERS (71%); VERDICTS (67%); JUDGES (67%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (65%); SPACE EXPLORATION (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (94%); GOOGLE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (84%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (94%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); MARS (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



317 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Philippine Rebel Group Agrees to Peace Accord To End Violence in South

BYLINE: By FLOYD WHALEY

 BODY:
MANILA -- President Benigno S. Aquino III announced Sunday that the Philippine government had reached a deal with a major rebel group that officials hope will reduce the persistent violence in the southern part of the country.
''This framework agreement paves the way for a final, enduring peace in Mindanao,'' Mr. Aquino said.
The deal with the rebel group, the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, which has fought a war of independence for more than three decades, is the first step in what is expected to be a long, complex process of working through disputes that have lasted for centuries between the Christian-dominated national government and the predominantly Muslim residents of the southern island of Mindanao.
If the agreement succeeds in significantly reducing violence in Mindanao, it will be a historic achievement and a major political victory for Mr. Aquino, who has been heavily criticized in recent weeks for some of his legislative proposals.
Every Philippine president since the 1970s has tried to address the violence in Mindanao, which has claimed an estimated 120,000 lives and displaced more than two million people.
Fidel Ramos, president from 1992 to 1998, was able to forge a peace agreement in 1996 with another major rebel group, the Moro National Liberation Front. Joseph Estrada, Mr. Ramos's successor, declared all-out war against the Muslim rebels in an attempt to achieve peace through force.
But the violence has persisted, even with about 500 United States troops based in Mindanao as part of a joint Special Operations task force, which helps the Philippine military target the most violent and extreme insurgents.
Mindanao is plagued by roadside bombings, firefights between the military and various armed groups, gun battles between warring clans, kidnappings of Filipinos and foreigners, and general crime and lawlessness. Many countries, including the United States, Britain and Australia, strongly warn their citizens to stay out of the southern Philippines.
The agreement announced Sunday is the result of intermittent peace talks that have been taking place in Malaysia since 2001.
''The agreement will ensure that the Bangsamoro people will enjoy the dividends of peace, which they rightly deserve,'' said Prime Minister Najib Razak of Malaysia, using a term that refers to the native people of the southern Philippines. ''In turn, they should respect their fellow Filipinos of Christian faith, as moderation is the true Islamic way.''
Under the agreement, the Moro Islamic Liberation Front will no longer seek an independent state, Mr. Aquino said. Instead, the deal creates a new governing political entity, called Bangsamoro, for Mindanao.
As part of the deal, the new political entity will exercise a degree of autonomy in governing Mindanao while the national government retains authority over defense and security, foreign policy, monetary policy and citizenship matters. The deal also assures the people of Mindanao ''a fair and equitable share of taxation, revenues and the fruits of national patrimony,'' Mr. Aquino said.
''This means that hands that once held rifles will be put to use tilling land, selling produce, manning work stations and opening doorways of opportunity for other citizens,'' Mr. Aquino said.
One important part of the agreement calls for the decommissioning of the military wing of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, which reportedly has 11,000 fighters. In addition, the Philippine military will turn over law enforcement to the local police.
The accord sets out general guidelines for a more detailed agreement that will be fleshed out by working groups over the next few years, said David C. Gorman, who helped mediate the talks on behalf of the Center for Humanitarian Dialogue, an organization based in Geneva that is devoted to resolving armed conflicts.
''It's going to be tough,'' Mr. Gorman said. ''It's not a peace agreement. It's a framework agreement. It is saying: 'This is the road map to peace. These are the broad outlines. Now you have to work out the details.' ''
''It is going to be messy and it is going to take time,'' he added.
The deal includes provisions to address clan warfare, the proliferation of weapons, and the private armies that are blamed for widespread political violence in the southern Philippines. A private army employed by the Ampatuan clan in central Mindanao has been accused of the 2009 massacre of 57 people, including 31 journalists, in one of the country's worst acts of political violence.
Though the Sunday agreement was reached with the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, the main rebel group in the southern Philippines, it includes mechanisms to bring other organizations into the discussions on local government. Notably, this does not include extremist groups like the Abu Sayyaf, which is blamed for kidnappings, murders and beheadings.
''These extremist groups are always going to be difficult to deal with,'' Mr. Gorman said. ''There are always going to be those operating outside the agreement, but as long as they are not able to undermine the process they will remain marginalized.''
The Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Movement, a breakaway group of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, staged a series of attacks and bombings in August during the final weeks of the peace talks. One attack, on Aug. 5, killed 80 militants and 10 soldiers and caused the evacuation of 189 residents.
Illustrating the challenges facing the government, and those seeking peace in Mindanao, the group said late Sunday that it would not respect the new agreement.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Benigno S. Aquino III announced a deal with the Moro Islamic Liberation Front on Sunday. Rebel fighters, below, on patrol in Mindanao in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON FAVILA/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 LUIS LIWANAG/AFP/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); BOMBINGS (71%); DISPLACED PERSONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (63%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); LEGISLATION (53%); MONETARY POLICY (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

PERSON: BENIGNO AQUINO III (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%) PHILIPPINES (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); MALAYSIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



318 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: Spinning Gaffes Into Gags: Live From New York, It's Debate Night

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
All last week, Lorne Michaels, the creator and longtime executive producer of ''Saturday Night Live'' was working the phone trying to nail down a visit to the show from either of this year's presidential candidates. By late Friday, it looked like it wouldn't happen, at least for this last week.
But Mr. Michaels still needed star power. So he put in a call to Big Bird.
Mitt Romney had mentioned the Sesame Street character while discussing his planned cuts to financing for PBS on Wednesday, so Mr. Michaels had his writers create a Big Bird segment for the show's ''Weekend Update.'' But executives at the Children's Television Workshop were reluctant to have their beloved character in anything that could be construed as political commentary.
After Mr. Michaels made a personal appeal to some friends at the company and let them look at the script, they signed on Friday night. Caroll Spinney, the only actor to play Big Bird since 1969, was told to get his eight-foot yellow-feathered costume ready.
''There's always all this swirl,'' Mr. Michaels said, describing the build-up to the show, ''and then you're fighting to get Big Bird on the phone.''
Political season is high-anxiety season for ''SNL,'' which even in the age of Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert is known for its definitive parodies of political debates. That includes Phil Hartman as Bill Clinton promoting his record in Arkansas (''Just this year we passed Mississippi to become 41st in the prevention of rickets''), Dana Carvey as both George H. W. Bush and Ross Perot, and a 2000 debate between a pedantic Al Gore and an addled George W. Bush, in which each offered one-word summaries of their campaigns, ''lockbox'' and ''strategery.''
Mr. Michaels and NBC, usually protective about the process of putting together ''SNL,'' allowed access to the show's writers, stars and rehearsals this week as they prepared their debate sketch. Pointing to the more than 70 million people who watched the actual debate, Mr. Michaels said, ''How else can you get anything that can play as comedy where everyone has seen it?''
But the debate itself turned out to be a challenge. There were no big gaffes or obvious springboards for comedy. Instead, the first debate of this election offered up a blizzard of policy details and a lackluster performance from President Obama.
At home Wednesday night, Seth Meyers, one of the show's head writers, watched with increasing concern.
''It's boring enough when they're talking about all this and how it will affect Americans, but when you're sitting there trying to pull comedy out of it, it's really bad,'' Mr. Meyers said. ''There were people on Twitter saying: 'You must be really happy, there's so much in this debate. This is writing itself.' I was like: what debate are you watching?''
The job of turning the debate into comedy gold fell to Jim Downey, the longtime ''SNL'' writer who has created the show's debate parodies since the 1970s. This one, he said, was the hardest he had ever dealt with.
''I can never remember one that didn't have something,'' said Mr. Downey, who watched the debate by himself at home. ''Some kind of thing that was odd or weird.''
Wednesday night and throughout Thursday, Mr. Michaels exchanged e-mails with Mr. Downey, getting the gist of his idea that Mr. Obama would be distracted by the fact that he had forgotten to buy his wife an anniversary present. Mr. Downey's genius, Mr. Michaels said, was summed up in his 2000 sketch that featured the word ''strategery.'' ''Bush didn't say it, but people think he did,'' he said.
Mr. Michaels also watched the post-debate coverage on MSNBC where the hosts Chris Matthews and Ed Schultz reacted strongly to the president's weak performance. ''Rachel Maddow looked like she had just seen a terrible car accident,'' he said. Sensing another opportunity, he discussed it with the show's writers, who, like Mr. Michaels, occupy a warren of offices on the 8th floor of 30 Rockefeller Center.
Mr. Downey, working mostly alone at home on his initial drafts, which he dictates by phone to his assistant, continued to ponder how to create the main debate sketch. By Friday afternoon, when the first run-through was scheduled, the script still was not complete.
''This was the toughest assignment I've ever had on one of these,'' he said later. By late Friday evening, the performers -- Jay Pharoah as Mr. Obama, and Jason Sudeikis as Mitt Romney -- were able to do a partial run-through so that directors and producers could at least work on the staging.
Mr. Michaels, with a still unfinished sketch on his hands, was toying with opening the show with an MSNBC sketch, even though chronologically it would have happened after the debate. Mr. Meyers and the co-head writer Colin Jost stood in front of a run-through of the MSNBC sketch during dress rehearsal, taking notes. Before the live show, an entire character, Ed Schultz, played by Bobby Moynihan, had been cut, and a new joke for Chris Matthews about Mr. Obama needing a Mike Tyson face tattoo for the next debate had been added.
In the late afternoon, Mr. Downey was still agonizing. Worried that his initial idea about the anniversary present was not enough, he had added a voice-over in which Mr. Obama describes the effects of altitude sickness, which Mr. Gore had suggested on Current TV was responsible for Mr. Obama's debate performance. Mr. Downey wanted to have Mr. Obama stagger through the line ''must... hang... on... for Michelle,'' based on the way Superman is typically portrayed in comic books reacting to Kryptonite.
''I have to admit it,'' Mr. Downey said. ''It was because Al Gore suggested the altitude thing.''
The cast did not receive the final version of the sketch until 6 p.m., two hours before the live audience would file in and five-and-a-half hours before millions of viewers, armed with high expectations, would tune in. As Mr. Pharoah and Mr. Sudeikis ran through their lines, Mr. Downey, script in hand and glasses on forehead, stood on the set, closely monitoring the rehearsal and describing in detail what he wanted in the scene.
Mr. Sudeikis worked on delivering Mr. Romney's list of 41 fixes for the economy (which included ''six abrupt reversals of opinion and three lies'') in a modulated tone that allowed the Obama voice-over to be prominent. That was crucial because Mr. Downey had included a moment in which the moderator, Jim Lehrer, (played by a former cast member, Chris Parnell, in a guest appearance) interrupts to ask the president if he just heard Mr. Romney take credit for killing Osama bin Laden.
''The audience couldn't be allowed to hear that Jason hadn't actually said that,'' Mr. Downey said. But he was so unsure of the sketch at this point that he thought of cutting it completely and reassigning the bin Laden line. ''After dress, I said, 'Maybe we should cut the piece out of the show and just take that 25-second exchange and give it to the MSNBC sketch.' ''
That suggestion was not taken. The sketch was trimmed during the break between the two performances, the most difficult technical details were smoothed out and it opened the show. The bin Laden line drew the biggest laugh of the sketch.
''That was probably the best moment,'' Mr. Downey said. ''It was my favorite moment.''
Midway through the live show, Mr. Downey sat in a conference room, watching on a monitor. He looked wrung out from the effort to wring comedy from the debate.
''It's my 60th birthday today,'' he said. ''I didn't know if I felt like spending it in the studio under this incredible pressure.''
During a commercial break, an NBC executive came over to congratulate him on the sketch. Mr. Sudeikis sat and they discussed the prospects of his playing his other recurring character, Joe Biden, in the vice-presidential debate.
That debate is set for Thursday; there is every expectation ''Saturday Night Live'' will have its own version two nights later.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: He's no President Obama. He's no Mitt Romney. But this bird was big enough to serve as a stand-in on ''Weekend Update.'' (A1)
 Political season is high-anxiety season for ''Saturday Night Live,'' which is known for its parodies of political debates. Above, Jason Sudeikis became Mitt Romney for the debate sketch. At left, cue cards during a rehearsal. Below, a parody skit on MSNBC's reaction to President Obama's debate. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (92%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); WRITERS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); CHILDREN (74%)

COMPANY: CHILDREN'S TELEVISION WORKSHOP (70%)

ORGANIZATION: CHILDREN'S TELEVISION WORKSHOP (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); JON STEWART (79%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE H W BUSH (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); AL GORE (57%); STEPHEN COLBERT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



319 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (Encore) TITANIC: BLOOD AND STEEL Chris Noth, above, portrays the tycoon J. P. Morgan, whose International Mercantile Marine Company owned the White Star Line, which in turn owned the Titanic, in this 12-part mini-series that depicts the building of that fated ship through the tales of several real and imagined figures. Derek Jacobi plays William Pirrie, chairman of the Harland and Wolff shipyard, where the Titanic was constructed. Kevin Zegers is Mark Muir, a young scientist who questions the safety of the steel used in the ship. And Neve Campbell is Joanna Yaeger, an American journalist with ulterior motives for reporting on the maiden voyage. Ciaran Donnelly directed the series. Two episodes will be shown back to back over six nights as part of the network's ''Big Mini-Series Showcase.''
1:35 P.M. (Starz) MONEYBALL (2011) Brad Pitt -- giving what Manohla Dargis, writing in The New York Times, called ''the quintessential Brad Pitt performance'' -- earned an Oscar nomination for his portrayal of Billy Beane, the general manager of the Oakland Athletics who transformed the team into a contender against wealthier franchises by ignoring almost everything he'd been taught about the game. Jonah Hill (above right, with Mr. Pitt), also nominated, plays Peter Brand, a computer whiz with an economics degree from Yale and a disciple of Bill James, the statistician who devised new ways to understand baseball data. Philip Seymour Hoffman is the team's manager, Art Howe, who isn't about to buy into the approach that his boss and his protégé insist will create a winner. The director, Bennett Miller, ''largely shaking off the official art-house pretensions of his breakout feature, 'Capote,' takes all this seemingly dry, dusty, inside-baseball stuff and turns it into the kind of all-too-rare pleasurable Hollywood diversion that gives you a contact high,'' Ms. Dargis said of this fictionalized adaptation of the book by Michael Lewis. ''Moneyball'' also received nominations for best picture and for best screenplay for Steven Zaillian and Aaron Sorkin, who wrote the script, and Stan Chervin, who provided the story.
3 P.M. (Lifetime) UNFAITHFUL (2002) Diane Lane, in an Oscar-nominated role, plays a housewife in Westchester County, N.Y., who surrenders to an erotic whim and embarks on an affair with a French rare-book dealer in Manhattan (Olivier Martinez) that spins out of control. Richard Gere is her devoted husband. ''The saddest and most unsettling element of 'Unfaithful' is its portrayal of an affluent, articulate couple who for all their individual sensitivity can barely bring themselves to communicate on a less than superficial level,'' Stephen Holden wrote in The Times about this drama.
8 P.M. (CW) 90210 Season 5 opens to find Naomi (AnnaLynne McCord) and Max (Josh Zuckerman) in jail after their limo breaks down in the desert enroute to their elopement. In the sixth and final season premiere of ''Gossip Girl,'' at 9, Blair (Leighton Meester) and Chuck (Ed Westwick) go their separate ways after making each other a promise, and the group reunites to help find Serena (Blake Lively).
8 P.M. (Style) A PERFECT MURDER (1998) Steven Taylor (Michael Douglas), a reptilian Wall Street bond salesman about to lose his shirt, plots to knock off his wife, Emily (Gwyneth Paltrow, left, with Mr. Douglas), a United Nations interpreter, and inherit her fortune in this update of Frederick Knott's play (and Alfred Hitchcock's film) ''Dial M for Murder.'' Viggo Mortensen portrays Emily's lover, a handsome painter, whom Steven offers $500,000 to do the dastardly deed or be exposed for the con man and gigolo he really is. ''The creepiest aspect of 'A Perfect Murder' is that there really is no contest between love and money,'' Stephen Holden wrote in The Times about this film from Andrew Davis. ''The movie is right in tune with the icy Darwinian mood fostered by the booming late-'90s economy.''
9 P.M. (Travel) ANTHONY BOURDAIN: NO RESERVATIONS In ''Seven Deadly Sins'' Mr. Bourdain lusts over a plate of pasta in Rome, expresses wrath in New York and exhibits sloth in Finland.
10 P.M. (Sundance) THE MORTIFIED SESSIONS A second round begins as Busy Philipps reveals some teenage mementos, recites purple prose from her diaries and tells the show's host, David Nadelberg, that ''I felt that I was 'never as pretty as,' 'never as thin as,' 'never as smart as.' '' But, she added: ''The one thing I knew is that I had a talent for pretending to be other people. I was good at that. That I could do better than anyone else I was in school with.'' KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY ENCORE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); SHIPBUILDING (77%); JOURNALISM (75%); WRITERS (75%); BOOKSTORES (71%); SPORTS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (60%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: OAKLAND A'S (55%)

PERSON: BRAD PITT (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



320 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Chávez Wins a Third Term in Venezuela Amid Historically High Turnout

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN; Reporting was contributed by María Eugenia Díaz, Jonathan Gilbert, Girish Gupta and Andrew Rosati from Caracas, and María Iguarán from Cumaná, Sucre State.

 BODY:
CARACAS, Venezuela -- President Hugo Chávez, long a fiery foe of Washington, won re-election on Sunday, facing down cancer and the strongest electoral challenge of his nearly 14 years in office and gaining a new mandate to deepen his socialist revolution.
Though his margin of victory was much narrower than in past elections, he still won handily. With 90 percent of the votes tallied, Mr. Chávez received 54 percent, to 45 percent for his opponent, Henrique Capriles Radonski, the national election council said. Fireworks erupted in Caracas after the news, and Chávez supporters celebrated in the streets.
Shortly before 11:30 p.m. local time, Mr. Chávez stepped out onto the balcony of the presidential palace in Caracas and waved to a sea of jubilant supporters. ''My words of recognition go out from here to all who voted against us, a recognition for their democratic temperament,'' he said. A former soldier, he called the election a ''perfect battle.''
Still, after a spirited campaign, the polarizing Mr. Chávez finds himself governing a changed country. He is an ailing and politically weakened winner facing an emboldened opposition that grew stronger and more confident as the voting neared, and held out hope that an upset victory was within reach.
Mr. Chávez has said that he would move forward even more aggressively to create his version of socialism in Venezuela in a new six-year term, although his pledges were short on specifics.
His health, though, remains a question mark. He has undergone several rounds of treatment for cancer in the last 15 months, but has refused to make public essential details of his illness. If he overcomes the disease and serves out his new term to its end in 2019, he will have been in power for two full decades.
Toward the end of the campaign, facing pressure from Mr. Capriles, he pledged to make his government more efficient and to pay more attention to the quality of government programs like education. He even made appeals for the middle class and the opposition to join in his revolution.
But Mr. Chávez spent much of the year insulting and trying to provoke Mr. Capriles and his followers. And on Sunday night, he had to face the fact that the people he taunted as squalid good-for-nothings, little Yankees and fascists, turned out to be nearly half the electorate.
As the opposition's momentum grew, Mr. Chávez's insults seemed to lose their sting. By the end of the campaign, young people in Caracas were wearing colorful T-shirts that said ''majunche'' or good-for-nothing, Mr. Chávez's favorite taunt.
Mr. Capriles was subdued on Sunday night, congratulating Mr. Chávez and saying he hoped the president would see the result as ''the expression today of a country with two visions, and to be president means working to solve the problems of all Venezuelans.''
He appeared poised to carry on his fight in the elections for state governors in December. ''You should all feel proud, do not feel defeated,'' he told supporters.
Michael Shifter, president of the Inter-American Dialogue, a research institute in Washington, called the presidential election ''a fundamental turning point.'' He said Mr. Chávez was ''going to have to deal with a very different society than he dealt with in his last term, a society that's awakened and more organized and more confident.''
Even so, the opposition is a fragile coalition with a history of destructive infighting, especially after an election defeat. Mr. Capriles will have to keep this fractious amalgam of parties from the left, right and center together in order to take advantage of the new ground they have gained.
''The opposition has more power, it feels more support,'' said Elsi Fernandes, a schoolteacher, who voted for Mr. Capriles on Sunday morning in Catia, a poor neighborhood in Caracas. ''The difference is that we're not going to stay with our arms crossed.''
The turnout was more than 80 percent, the highest in decades, the election council said. People stood in line for hours, although the voting appeared in most cases to run smoothly.
Venezuela uses a touch-screen electronic voting system, and voters are identified with a digital thumbprint reader; technical problems at some polling places caused long delays and, in some, a resort to backup paper ballots. Polling places were told to keep working until everyone in line at closing time had a chance to vote.
Venezuela is mired in problems, including out-of-control violent crime, crumbling roads and bridges, and power blackouts that regularly plague much of the country outside the capital. Oil production, the country's mainstay, has plateaued in recent years, and other exports have not picked up the slack. The overall economy grew this year, largely because of a huge pre-election boost in government spending, but clouds loom. A devaluation of the Venezuelan currency, the bolívar, is widely seen as inevitable, and inflation remains stubbornly high.
Mr. Chávez has trumpeted his programs to help the poor, and has pointed to a sharp reduction in the number of people living in poverty. But he has governed during a phenomenal rise in oil prices, which have soared from $10 in 1998, the year before he took office, to more than $100 in recent years and the high s$80 now, pouring huge amounts of revenue into Venezuela. Mr. Capriles, who has served as a legislator, mayor and governor, campaigned almost nonstop, seeking to contrast his energetic style with the reduced schedule of Mr. Chávez, who received a diagnosis of cancer in 2011.
Mr. Chávez has kept most details of his condition secret, refusing to say exactly what kind of cancer he has or where in his body it is. He received chemotherapy last summer after an operation to remove a tumor, but the cancer returned and he had another operation in February, followed by radiation therapy. The operations and treatments were performed in Cuba, taking Mr. Chávez out of Venezuela for extended periods.
His health, and whether he was well enough to serve a new six-year term, always loomed over the campaign, but it receded as an issue as Mr. Chávez gradually increased his public appearances. Still, he never threw himself into campaigning at the frenzied pace of Mr. Capriles.
Opposition to Mr. Chávez has long been divided and easily manipulated by Mr. Chávez, a master politician who kept his rivals off balance. Mr. Capriles changed that. He crisscrossed the country, campaigning in places long considered bastions of support for Mr. Chávez, including urban slums and poor rural areas. He told voters that he was the future and Mr. Chávez the past.
Mr. Chávez dismissed Mr. Capriles as an unworthy opponent, accusing him of lying about wanting to continue Mr. Chávez's social programs. He called Mr. Capriles a right-wing oligarch in disguise who sought to bring back the bad old days of rule by the rich. In Catia, María Elena Severine, 59, who works as a cleaner in a bank, said that Mr. Chávez was still as fresh a candidate as when he first ran in 1998. She lives in a rental apartment but hopes someday to be given a new home government-built home.
''I like my president,'' she said. ''He is the revolution. He is change.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Venezuelans waited in line Sunday to vote in Catia, a poor area of Caracas. The balloting mostly went smoothly, except for a few hitches with voting machines. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MERIDITH KOHUT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Opposition candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski, left, with supporters after voting. President Hugo Chávez at his polling place. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CARLOS GARCIA RAWLINS/REUTERS
 RODRIGO ABD/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); CANCER (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ONCOLOGY (73%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



321 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: Campaigning for Care

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: An economist asks why presidential candidates won't engage on public policies affecting care for dependents. 

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. She recently edited and contributed to "For Love and Money: Care Provision in the United States." 
Back in 2004, a presidential candidate acknowledged the changing organization of our care economy. "In one of the most dramatic shifts our society has seen," explained George W. Bush in his final speech at the Republican National Convention, "two-thirds of moms also work outside the home." He went on to proclaim, "Government must take your side."
Neither the moderator nor either of the contenders in last week's campaign debate raised the issue. But considering the strain most American families are under, it's urgent that the candidates confront it.
Most working people in the United States shoulder some responsibility for the care of a dependent. They tend to the needs of children or grandchildren, parents or grandparents, spouses or siblings, friends or neighbors.
Relatively few wage earners can delegate such responsibilities entirely to a stay-at-home spouse or to a paid assistant. As I and other contributors explain in a new book on care provision, low-wage earners are especially squeezed, because their employers often don't provide such benefits as paid family leave or sick days.
According to recent data collected by the American Time Use Survey, about 65 percent of workers without a high-school diploma and 39 percent of high-school graduates with no college lack access to any kind of paid leave from employment.
We tell single mothers that we won't provide cash assistance unless they engage in paid employment. Yet many cannot find jobs, much less jobs that give them the flexibility they need. In 2011 the unemployment rate for mothers who are unmarried, divorced or live apart from their spouses was 15 percent.
Many policy experts, political activists, and voters (including me) are trying to insert debate on these issues - along with a broader look at care provision for children, people with disabilities and the elderly - into the fall election campaign.
Representatives of several different care advocacy groups in Washington organized a brainstorming session to increase political visibility.
Groups including the Family Values @Work, Caring Across Generations, the National Domestic Workers Alliance and the Direct Care Alliance are mobilizing a wide spectrum of voters, emphasizing the common interests of those working hard to care for others but also struggling to pay their bills.
Almost by definition, "dependents" can't simply buy what they need in the market, and care provision seldom takes the form of a straightforward market transaction. Our book offers evidence that those who take on care work often pay an economic penalty.
The Caring Economy Campaign publicized six explicit questions covering topics as varied as high levels of child poverty, the economic vulnerability of family caregivers and poor wages and working conditions of paid home-care workers.
An enterprising young woman, Jessica Smith of Denver started a petition drive on Change.org to ask presidential candidates about family leave insurance and sick time.
These issues are not being plucked out of some laundry hamper for the first time. They've been through spin cycles and political wringers on the state and local level, leaving many small victory banners waving in the wind.
California put in place paid family leave in 2002, New Jersey in 2008. The state of Washington has approved a similar policy, though it has yet to be enacted.
In 2006, San Francisco established a paid sick-leave policy that now gets favorable reviews from most employers. The District of Columbia followed suit in 2007, and Seattle in 2011. In 2008, Milwaukee voted in favor of a paid sick-leave policy, although Gov. Scott Walker and the Wisconsin Legislature then passed a law stripping cities of the right to create such a policy.
Many members of the New York City Council favor a paid sick-days bill - enough to override a mayoral veto - but the current council speaker has so far been exercising her power to prevent the issue from coming to a vote.
In 2011 Connecticut became the first state requiring paid sick leave.
Efforts to improve working conditions for low-wage care workers have also moved forward, though they continue to elicit stiff opposition from corporate lobbyists. New York has established a Domestic Workers' Bill of Rights; Gov. Jerry Brown of California recently vetoed a similar bill.
The Labor Department is considering a rule change to the Fair Labor Standards Act that would extend minimum wage and overtime protections to many paid home-care workers who are currently exempt. While President Obama supports this rule change, he has said little about it in the campaign.
In last week's debate he did say, "There are some things we do better together." Surely efforts to build a more equitable and sustainable care economy belong on that list.

        
Credits for Children
        
Social Security and the Stork
        
Family Leave: Right or Privilege?
        
Patriarchal Norms Still Shape Family Care
        
It's the Accounting, Stupid

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); FAMILY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SICK LEAVE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); FAMILY LEAVE (88%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); WORKING MOTHERS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); CHILD WELFARE (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (71%); GRANDPARENTS (69%); CHILD POVERTY (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); POVERTY RATES (65%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%); DISABLED PERSONS (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%) Daily Economist; election; family; family economics; family leave; home care; Nancy Folbre; politics; sick leave; stay-at-home parents; Bush, George W; Family Leaves; Labor Department (NYS); Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (84%) Labor Department (NYS)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Bush, George W

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2012



322 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: Monday Reading: Strategies for Saving on Holiday Airfares

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: How to save on holiday airfares, why women still hide their pregnancies, a recall of PIlots and Civics and other consumer news from The New York Times. 

 BODY:
 A variety of consumer-focused articles appears daily in The New York Times and on our blogs. Each weekday morning, we gather them together here so you can quickly scan the news that could hit you in your wallet. 

        
Error and fraud at issue as absentee voting rises. (National)
        
Scant oversight of drug maker in . (National)
        
Student i.d.'s that track the student. (National)
        
They work long hours, but what about results? (Business)
        
Why women still . (Sunday Review)
        
Wandering New Zealand's Hobbit trail. (Travel)
        
Strategies for saving on . (Travel)
        
Should you apply for speedier airport security? (Travel)
        
Unfriending someone, before Facebook. (Booming)
        
The high price of 'forced' insurance. (Real Estate)
        
Healthier school lunches face student rejection. (National)
        
Another use for home H.I.V. test: Screening sexual partners. (National)
        
Recall of Pilots and Civics caps rough week for Honda. (Wheels)
        
Downloading iTunes purchases automatically-or not. (Gadgetwise)
        
Books to teach children about Alzheimer's. (The New Old Age)
        
College admissions tips for military veterans. (The Choice)
        
California fights to make sure medical marijuana goes only to the sick. (National)
        
Poorer but wiser after a year of unemployment. (Booming)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AIR FARES (90%); REAL ESTATE (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (74%); CHILDREN (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); HERBAL MEDICINE (71%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (71%); AVIATION SECURITY (69%); AIDS & HIV TESTING (67%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (67%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (65%); AIRPORTS (54%); VETERANS (51%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NEW ZEALAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



323 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Reader Idea | Students Create Video Ads for Historical Presidential Elections

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN


HIGHLIGHT: One of our favorite-ever projects, this one asks students to analyze contemporary political ads in order to create video ads for and against historical presidential candidates. 

 BODY:
 An ad created by high school juniors -- Aimee Nagao, Jennifer Scoville, Katoa Ahau and Kanoe Sakamoto -- supporting Harry S. Truman in the 1948 election against Thomas E. Dewey. 
 Please note: With the exception of this Reader Idea, The Learning Network will not be publishing on Monday, Oct. 8, 2012 in honor of Columbus Day. 
Please come back on Oct. 9 for our usual daily content.
 Teacher: Sarah Razee
 Institution: Kamehameha Schools Kapalama Campus, Honolulu
 Grade Level of Students: High school juniors (16 years old)
 Idea: Students create video campaign ads for historical United States presidential races using the techniques of current campaign ads.
 Why We Chose It: 
This is one of the best teacher projects we've ever come across. 
As Ms. Razee puts it, the lesson's goal is "creating critical consumers of campaign ads by having students become the crafters themselves" and involves research, real-world connections, media literacy, critical thinking and a wonderful creative challenge. What's not to like? 
 Another ad created by the same students in Ms. Razee's class, this one opposing Truman and supporting Dewey. 
 What Ms. Razee Did and Why, in Her Own Words 
 My Goal 
The purpose of this project was for students to become media savvy and literate about the images they see in political campaigning, both on the Internet and on television, so they can think critically about the messages they are exposed to during a political campaign. 
Another goal is to examine continuity in history by comparing election campaigns and themes over time. For example, themes like the common man, foreign policy, corruption and "It's the economy, stupid" can be found in U.S. presidential elections throughout history.
 How the Project Worked 
Students chose a historical presidential campaign year (for example, 1828, 1932 and 1980) and researched it, then chose a candidate to support or to target. They then did research to choose a historically-accurate target audience. 
As part of their research, they viewed contemporary campaign ads and made observations about the focus of the ads, and about how information was conveyed through language, image and sound to target people's fears, hopes and emotions. 
Here is one example: a handout for groups working on the 1948 Dewey-Truman contest that suggests the use of Times resources present and past:
After they did research, students wrote and edited several drafts of their campaign ads. They chose specific statistics from the time period that would work in their candidate's favor; music that conveyed the tone they wanted; and pared down their words to a succinct message. To do this, they first wrote a speech, which originally looked like a campaign speech and then edited, edited, edited. 
Next, they presented their ads to their peers for feedback. Student peer-reviewers weighed in on the first draft, discussing whether the music matched the tone of the ads, whether there was too much or too little information, if the ad became confusing at any point.
Finally, students presented their ads to professionals in the field of marketing and got feedback. One professional said to me, "This is really a lesson in citizenship."
 For Much More Detail, and to See More Examples 
Visit the site Ms. Razee and her partner, Melia Tauvela, put up about the project, which they also presented at ISTE. There you can find a more detailed description of the teaching process, additional student examples, technology suggestions, ideas for extending the lesson, and adaptations for making the same idea work with local campaigns.
Related:

        
Our quiz on historical presidential campaigns. (After you've read this idea, you should be able to get at least one right!)
        
Ourfull collection of resources for Election 2012.

        
PUB-DATE: June 27, 1950
        
PUB-DATE: April 3, 1948
        
PUB-DATE: March 12, 1947
        
Dec. 16, 1950 | President Truman Proclaims State of Emergency During Korean War
        
Oct. 5, 1947 | President Truman Uses First TV Address to Ask Americans to Conserve Food

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); HISTORY (89%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); POLITICS (77%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Harry S.; Harry S. Truman; Truman; American History; Civics; Elections in the United States; Great Ideas From Readers; Lesson Plans; Research Skills; The White House; U.S. Presidency

COMPANY: LEARNING NETWORK (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



324 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: For Protectors of Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, an Unlikely Ally

BYLINE: MICHAEL POWELL


HIGHLIGHT: Gotham Extra: Neighbors opposed to building a soccer stadium in the park seem to have the support of the United States Tennis Association, which also wants a piece of the park. 

 BODY:
 There are so many ways a city park like Flushing Meadows-Corona Park can die.
 You can underfund it, which the city has tried on a regular basis. You can chew away at its edges, as the city has tried with great vigor, encouraging the Mets' owners to construct a huge car-attracting mall on the northern edge of the park.
 And you can let sports franchises lay claim to its precious core. The Giuliani and Bloomberg administrations allowed the Yankees to build on a South Bronx park, with promises to replace the lost space. Now the Bloomberg administration appears to look favorably on Major League Soccer's proposal to place a 25,000-seat stadium smack in the middle of Flushing Meadows-Corona Park.
 I wrote of this endangered Queens park last week. 
 Major League Soccer has commissioned an architect to draw up pretty and crowd-pleasing drawings for the stadium. Already these plans have drawn cheers from some local politicians.
The proposed stadium, however, has drawn vigorous opposition from residents in the immigrant-rich neighborhoods of Corona, Elmhurst, Flushing and Jackson Heights, who rely on this densely used park for a weekly dose of open green space.
But the United States Tennis Association could prove the most intriguing and deep-pocketed opponent of the soccer stadium. Many local residents look with suspicion on the U.S.T.A., as it, too, plans to take another small bite out of Flushing Meadows-Corona Park. It wants to build a new tennis facility and parking garages. (Officials note in their defense that more than half of the fans at the United States Open tournament arrive by mass transit.)
 This said, the tennis association often is a reasonable neighbor. When it cut a deal with the Dinkins administration to build a new facility in the early 1990s, it agreed to build dozens of tennis courts and let residents use them most weeks of the year. 
 The tennis association also pays about $2.5 million a year to the city, although Bloomberg budget officials set aside no specific portion of that tithe for Flushing Meadows.
 Tennis officials view a soccer stadium with concern. Unlike Citi Field and the National Tennis Center, a soccer stadium in the middle of the park would sit a substantial distance from subways and trains. And it most likely would require more roads and parking, crossing close to the tennis center. 
 And soccer officials have spoken of using the stadium for concerts, all of which would make it a cacophonous neighbor for the tennis complex.
 "It raises a lot of concerns for us," said Gordon Smith, executive director of the association. "We ought to be considered in a very different light, because we raise almost none of those complications."
For now, however, local residents offer the loudest opposition. With the help of organizations like Make the Road by Walking, Good Jobs New York and NYC Park Advocates, they have packed usually obscure and sparsely attended "scoping hearings" with hundreds of people to register their disapproval.
 The atmosphere at one such meeting last week fell well short of welcoming. While officials from the city's Economic Development Corporation fiddled with their BlackBerrys and checked the time, the officials running the meeting did not offer simultaneous translation in Spanish, Bengali and Urdu to those who needed it. That omission runs counter to city guidelines.
 The city official who acted as the moderator of the hearing affected the condescension of an Eton headmaster. "I have been a college professor," he informed the boisterous audience. "I will wait until you are silent."
 How very good of him.
 The Pratt Center for Community Development has issued a pointed new critique of the various plans for the park. 
To all of this, many of the city's news media have contributed more than a little confusion of their own. A reporter for Gothamist, a news Web site, consistently frames the battle as one between small-minded NIMBYs and a terrific new stadium. 
 Other reporters dismiss Industry Pond and the Fountain of Planets as a stagnant and "man-made" body of water that is "fenced off" and sits in a remote corner of the park.
 These are curious bills of indictment. Nearly every lake in the city park system is man-made, and more than a few are fenced off. For instance, two of Prospect Park's ponds are, unfortunately, fenced off, and no one has yet suggested paving those watery expanses. And the notion that the Flushing Meadows pond sits at a far remove from the park center is a fantasy. Visitors might discover this for themselves on any weekend by joining the crowds and food vendors congregating around the pond and soccer fields.
 A few years back, the Parks and Recreation Department offered its own strategic plan for Flushing Meadows, a visionary document that called for fewer cars and more natural areas, and for unshackling Industry Pond. The plan would rip up the asphalt, tear down the fences and create an open expanse of grass and water. 
 The report's language lacked eloquence, but its vision was expansive.
 Parks department officials so far have kept a careful silence on the new proposals. They perhaps face a choice of deferring to those who frame the future of the park in terms of revenue, or finding their own voice as guardians of this often neglected park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOCCER (92%); TENNIS (91%); SPORTS (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (68%); TOURNAMENTS (68%); BUDGETS (68%) Major League Soccer; Parks and Recreation Department (NYC); United States Tennis Assn; Flushing Meadows-Corona Park (Queens, NY); Gotham Extra; Parks and Recreation

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES TENNIS ASSOCIATION (93%) Major League Soccer; Parks and Recreation Department (NYC); United States Tennis Assn

TICKER: C (NYSE) (52%); C (BMV) (52%); 8710 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%) Flushing Meadows-Corona Park (Queens, NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2012



325 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Ireland Plans Bold Measures to Lift Housing

BYLINE: PETER EAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: The initiative, which would lower a borrower's monthly payment, could prevent a tide of foreclosures. If it works, the plan could provide a road map for other troubled countries. 

 BODY:
DUBLIN - With its economy still reeling from the housing crash, Ireland is making a bold move to help tens of thousands of struggling homeowners.
The Irish government expects to pass a law this year that could encourage banks to substantially cut the amount that borrowers owe on their mortgages, a step that no major country has been willing to take on a broad scale.
The initiative, which would lower a borrower's monthly payment, could prevent a tide of foreclosures, an uncertainty that has been hanging over the Irish housing market for years. If it works, the plan could provide a road map for other troubled countries.
 Without the proposed law, Laura Crowley, a nurse who lives in a village 30 miles west of Dublin, figures she will lose her home. In 2007, Ms. Crowley and her husband bought a small home for the equivalent of $420,000. But they can no longer afford the $1,400 monthly payment. Her husband, a construction worker, is earning far less and her take-home pay has been cut by the country's new austerity measures, which include new taxes. "This bill is the only light at the end of the tunnel for us," she said.
Most countries that have suffered housing busts, including the United States, have made limited use of so-called mortgage write-downs, the process of forgiving a portion of the principal on the loan. The worry has been that some borrowers who can afford their mortgages will stop making payments to take advantage of a bailout. Banks have also been reluctant since they could face unexpected losses.
Ireland is different from the United States and most countries. During the financial crisis, Ireland bailed out the banks, and the government still has large ownership stakes in some of the biggest mortgage lenders. So taxpayers are already responsible for mortgage losses. In other countries, the burden of principal forgiveness would largely fall on privately owned banks.
But the debate is the same: whether to push lenders to take losses now, in hopes that things will get better faster, or wait for the housing market to heal on its own, which could cloud the economy for years to come.
Countries suffering from a housing hangover will most likely be watching Ireland closely to see how the law works. Spain, swamped with mortgage defaults, introduced a measure in March that allows for debt forgiveness, though under strict conditions.
In many ways, Ireland has to try something audacious. House prices are still 50 percent below their peak, compared with 30 percent in the United States. And more than half of Irish mortgages are underwater, meaning the house is worth less than the outstanding debt. While some of those borrowers can afford to keep making payments, more than a quarter of mortgage debt on first homes, roughly $39 billion, is in default or has been modified by lenders.
The housing market is now in a state of limbo as the government and the banks have made little effort to clean up the mortgage mess.
Unlike in the United States, Irish banks have foreclosed on very few borrowers. While Ireland's leaders have considered it socially unacceptable for banks to seize large numbers of homes, they also feared the fiscal cost of foreclosures.
This approach creates doubt about the true level of bad mortgages at Irish banks. And borrowers, unsure of whether they will keep their homes, remain in a state of financial paralysis.
The new law aims to end this stalemate by overhauling Ireland's consumer debt and bankruptcy laws.
While banks aren't required to reduce the mortgage debt, the legislation gives them a powerful incentive to write down mortgages for troubled borrowers. Under the new rules, it will be less onerous to declare bankruptcy, making it easier for people to walk away from their homes altogether. As the threat rises, banks are more likely to reduce homeowners' debt, rather than risk losing the monthly income and getting stuck with the property.
"For the banks, where there are losses, they have to be recognized," said Alan Shatter, Ireland's justice minister, who has sponsored the new law, called the Personal Insolvency Bill. "This legislation gives homeowners hope for their future."
The legislation is intended, in part, to reach homeowners who are on the verge of running into trouble, as Geraldine Daly is.
A health care worker, Ms. Daly bought a home in 2009 in Belmayne, a new development in northern Dublin. Until last month, Ms. Daly said, she has been making her $1,200 payment. Then she fell behind after some unexpected expenses, including a car repair.
Ms. Daly estimates that her finances would become manageable if her monthly mortgage payments were cut to around $900. "Right now, I am a slave to this dog box."
Critics contend the law could have unintended consequences.
One fear is that banks won't have the money to absorb the potential losses on the mortgages. A big mystery is the level of defaults on so-called buy-to-let mortgages, loans that many Irish people took out to buy second homes to rent. In theory, the insolvency bill allows for write-offs on this type of mortgage, and analysts expect defaults on such loans to be higher than on first homes. Ireland's central bank is expected to release the data soon.
To qualify, borrowers will have to prove that they are in a precarious financial position and cannot afford to pay. Analysts are concerned that the bill may actually be too restrictive and homeowners will continue to default. "There are so many layers that borrowers have to go through to get a write-down," said Paul Joyce, senior policy researcher at Free Legal Advice Centers, a legal rights group that has supported moves to make Irish bankruptcy law more lenient. For instance, borrowers will most likely have to pay a big fee upfront to the person who handles their case.
John Chubb, a former construction worker who lives on a quiet cul-de-sac on the outskirts of Dublin, isn't too worried about the process right now. He just wants to save his home.
Since having an operation for colon cancer in 2004, Mr. Chubb has lived primarily on government disability payments, and the bank has allowed him to pay only mortgage interest. But the lender is in the process of deciding whether to foreclose.
"I am expecting the word any day now," he said. "I don't know if I will be out on the front path before the bill passes."

        
The Treasury's Oversimplified View of Its Mortgage Relief Effort
        
States Negotiate $26 Billion Deal for Homeowners

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%) European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Foreclosures; Ireland; Mortgages; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Real Estate

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (89%) IRELAND (95%); UNITED STATES (93%) Ireland

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



326 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: Is There a Constitution in This Text?

BYLINE: STANLEY FISH


HIGHLIGHT: Textualism is a nonstarter in constitutional interpretation - and everywhere else, too. 

 BODY:
Akhil Reed Amar, a professor of law at Yale, begins his new book, "America's Unwritten Constitution," by calling our attention to two places in Article 1, Section 3 of the Constitution. The first declares that the "Vice President of the United States shall be the President of the Senate." The second reads, "When the President of the United States is tried, the Chief Justice will preside." 
It doesn't say why. But the reason, says Amar, emerges "upon a moment's reflection." Even though "these words say nothing explicit about the vice president it quickly dawns on us that the central purpose of the passage was to oust the vice president from the chair in presidential impeachment trials"; for were he not so ousted, "the vice president would have an intolerable conflict of interest" given that in the event of a conviction, he would ascend to the presidency. 
The example illustrates Amar's main thesis: "The written Constitution cannot work as intended without something outside of it - America's unwritten Constitution - to fill its gaps and stabilize its meaning." The meaning of the "inside" - the text's literal words-cannot be specified independently of the "outside" - the set of assumptions and values that hangs over the enterprise and gives the deeds and words that occur within it shape and point. The text may not enumerate those assumptions and values, but, explains Amar, they "go without saying," and because they go without saying the words that are said receive their meaning from them. "The unwritten Constitution helps make sense of the text," a sense that would not be available if an interpreter were confined to a "clause-bound literalism."

In fact, the case is even stronger than that, Amar tells us. A "clause-bound literalism," a reliance on the textually explicit, rather than delivering a coherent document would yield only a series of discrete observations. Amar's authority for this assertion is none other than Chief Justice John Marshall, who acknowledged in McCulloch v. Maryland (1819) that there was "no express proviso" for the conclusion he reached, but argued that it was "sustained on a principle which so entirely pervades the constitution, is so intermixed with the materials which compose it, so interwoven with its web, so blended with its texture, as to be incapable of being separated from it, without rending it into shreds." Marshall, explains Amar, "insisted on reading between the lines to vindicate the document's spirit, rather than focusing solely on the letter" in a way that would fragment and atomize the document.
But couldn't the letter be enlarged so that the unwritten principle became a written one? Couldn't the proviso be made "express"? Couldn't the spirit be made explicit? No, says Amar. Consider the unwritten principle that "no man may be a judge in his own case." You might think that a number of "interpretive puzzles would have happily disappeared had the framers simply been more explicit by inserting it into the written Constitution." But "think again," Amar advises. The scope and meaning of the principle would still have to be specified, and that could not be done without reference to some other unwritten principle in the light of which the meaning of "judge" and "his own case" could be stabilized. And if you inserted that second previously unwritten principle into the text, it itself would have to be stabilized by another, and on and on and on. No matter how many words you added, there would still be "left open a range of questions whose answers could not simply be deduced from the words themselves."
It is not, says Amar, a matter of "poor draftsmanship" or of draftsmanship at all. The unwritten principles that preside over constitutional interpretation should not be thought of as items in a list; they are, rather, part and parcel of a general project - the implementation of American-style democracy - that is not defined and limited by the implications and considerations it gives rise to. 
If there is a list, it is one that keeps expanding in the face of new phenomena and new fact situations, in response to which the project at once reaffirms itself and adds to its storehouse of rules and principles, most of them unwritten. The whole is always more than the sum of its parts no matter how many of its parts have been enumerated; and any effort to enumerate them will always be outrun by the generative power of the whole and will quickly turn a "terse text" (Amar's phrase) like the Constitution into a monster that, in Chief Justice Marshall's words, has "the prolixity of a legal code." Explicitness, it turns out, is not a possible human achievement, which is no big deal because communication and understanding do not require it.
What they do require is a grasp of the enterprise within which a particular utterance or writing is encountered. Here is an example (mine, not Amar's) from the enterprise called Higher Education. It may say in an online schedule of courses or on the bulletin board of a classroom building, "Classes begin on the hour." What could be simpler? But the simplicity and easy understanding will be experienced only by those who know, and know without reflection, what a class is (know that it is not a socio-economic population), know why classes are held (what is the end point to which they contribute) and know what counts as an hour (no one, except in rare and special circumstances, will think that one of the hours being referred to is 1:00-2:00 a.m.).
It might seem that going to college or teaching in one is an activity less complex than the activity of engaging in constitutional interpretation. But neither activity can be engaged in by someone who had not internalized a vast array of assumptions and presuppositions, each of which is an ingredient of an understanding that can not be gained by rehearsing or cataloging them. Whether negotiating the course schedule or the Constitution, "Quicksand awaits all who insist on reading every clause of the document literally."
What are the implications of Amar's argument? Well, one implication, which he draws out, is that textualism or clause-bound literalism of the kind championed by Justice Antonin Scalia is a nonstarter. Not going outside the text leaves the text a document profoundly unresponsive to our goals and aspirations because our goals and aspirations - the huge number of unwritten ones - have been edited out. Another implication, one that Amar does not draw out because he is not performing as a philosopher of language, is that we have unwritten constitutions in every area of our discursive life. Whether it is the law, or higher education, or politics, or shop talk, or domestic interactions, utterances and writings are meaningful only against the background of a set of assumptions they do not contain. Textualism is not only a nonstarter in constitutional interpretation; it is a nonstarter everywhere. 
When your spouse or partner says, "We don't go out anymore," what does he or she mean? Well, it depends on within which unwritten constitution - which understanding of the protocols and hazards of the domestic project - you are hearing the words. Parsing them lexically and grammatically isn't going to help you. What might help - or at least put you in the ballpark - is a sensitivity to everything that has happened in the course of a continuing relationship. The last thing you want to do in a situation like this is be a clause-bound literalist and start researching the number of days the two of you have gone out. That's not what is at stake and you will have a chance of knowing what is at stake only if, as you listen to the words, you are hearkening to the unwritten constitution of your life together. 
 An earlier version of this article misstated the source of two quotes from the Constitution. They are not from Article 3, but rather from Article 1, Section 3. This has been corrected. 

        
Mr. Seward's Little Bell
        
Purists Gone Wild
        
John Gilmer's Last Stand
        
The Rebel Constitution
        
A Bad Document's Good Idea

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); IMPEACHMENT (73%) textualism; The Constitution; Amar, Akhil Reed; Constitution (US); Stanley Fish

ORGANIZATION: VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (58%)

PERSON: Amar, Akhil Reed

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



327 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: China Slams 'Cold War Mentality' in U.S. Report

BYLINE: MARK MCDONALD


HIGHLIGHT: China struck back Tuesday at a bipartisan congressional report that says two leading Chinese telecom companies pose a potential national security threat to the United States. The House report also said growing economic espionage against the United States was being conducted or supported by the government in Beijing. 

 BODY:
HONG KONG - China struck back Tuesday at a U.S. congressional report that says two leading Chinese telecommunication companies represent potential security threats to the United States.
The bipartisan report from the House Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence - the full report is here - said Huawei Technologies and ZTE should be barred from doing business with the U.S. government. American companies were also cautioned about trading with Huawei and ZTE.
The companies make equipment vital to wireless networks, including those that operate in the United States. 
As my colleagues Michael Schmidt, Keith Bradsher and Christine Hauser report in The New York Times: "Allowing the Chinese companies to do business in the United States, the report said, would give the Chinese government the ability to easily intercept communications and could allow it to start online attacks on critical infrastructure, like dams and power grids." 
A commentary on Tuesday by Xinhua, the Chinese state news agency, said the House report was "totally groundless and comes out of protectionism." Any perceived security threat, Xinhua said, was "based on wild guesses." 
Chinese energy and telecom firms "have long been viewed through colored spectacles by some U.S. lawmakers on misplaced security concerns," the Xinhua report said. "The report laid bare a Cold War mentality as well as protectionism among politicians at Capitol Hill to contain Chinese investments, which could offer new business and job opportunities for the sluggish U.S. economy.
"Protectionism or anti-market intervention is not a wise choice for Washington."
An opinion piece on Tuesday in Global Times, a newspaper affiliated with the Community Party, said: "The U.S. has repeatedly obstructed Chinese companies from entering into U.S. domestic competition under the pretext of 'national security.' The U.S. is gradually becoming reduced to an unreasonable country."
An article in the state-run newspaper China Daily also slammed the House report and quoted Huo Jianguo, director of the Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation Institution, who saw domestic U.S. politics playing a role in the report's tone and timing.
"The report is not just about economic issues, but goes further with guesswork about alleged conspiracy," Mr. Huo said. "It has obvious political intentions because displaying a tough attitude to Chinese companies may help win more votes with a presidential election campaign going on."
The House report cites a lack of candor, cooperation and transparency by both companies in its investigation, especially Huawei, which is by far the larger of the two. An excerpt from the report:
Neither company was willing to provide sufficient evidence to ameliorate the Committee's concerns. Neither company was forthcoming with detailed information about its formal relationships or regulatory interaction with Chinese authorities. Neither company provided specific details about the precise role of each company's Chinese Communist Party Committee. Furthermore, neither company provided detailed information about its operations in the United States.
Both companies contacted Chinese state news outlets to reject the report's findings.
China Daily said it had received an e-mail message from Bill Plummer, a Huawei vice president, that said: "Baseless suggestions purporting that Huawei is somehow uniquely vulnerable to cyber mischief ignore technical and commercial realities, recklessly threaten American jobs and innovation, do nothing to protect national security, and should be exposed as dangerous political distractions from legitimate public-private initiatives to address what are global and industry-wide cyber challenges."
A ZTE statement quoted by Xinhua said the company "has set an unprecedented standard for cooperation by any Chinese company with a congressional investigation."
The House report went beyond the critiques of the two companies, assailing the Chinese government itself. Citing U.S. security analyses, the document said "Chinese intelligence collection efforts against the U.S. government are growing in 'scale, intensity and sophistication.' "
An excerpt from the report:
Chinese actors are also the world's most active and persistent perpetrators of economic espionage. U.S. private sector firms and cybersecurity specialists report an ongoing onslaught of sophisticated computer network intrusions that originate in China, and are almost certainly the work of, or have the backing of, the Chinese government. Further, Chinese intelligence services, as well as private companies and other entities, often recruit those with direct access to corporate networks to steal trade secrets and other sensitive proprietary data.
These cyber and human-enabled espionage efforts often exhibit sophisticated technological capabilities, and these capabilities have the potential to translate into efforts to insert malicious hardware or software implants into Chinese-manufactured telecommunications components and systems marketed to the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (93%); ESPIONAGE (92%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COLD WAR (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); POLITICS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); TRENDS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (76%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); CONSPIRACY (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (65%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); EVIDENCE (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (56%) economic espionage; ZTE; Economic Conditions and Trends; Industrial Espionage; Infrastructure (Public Works); Protectionism (Trade); United States Economy; United States Politics and Government; Huawei Technologies Co Ltd; China; United States; Featured; View From Asia

ORGANIZATION: Huawei Technologies Co Ltd

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); HONG KONG (92%); ASIA (79%) China; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



328 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Weighed Down by History, a Town Slides in Mexico

BYLINE: MATT MCCANN


HIGHLIGHT: The photographer Matt Black shot a remote town in southern Mexico that's sliding down a mountain - a heart-wrenching story that illustrates the consequences of colonialism and modernity. 

 BODY:
The thrust of civilization is commonly imagined as an arc curving ever upward. From the Industrial Revolution on, innovation, comfort, health and wealth have seemed to expand and improve limitlessly for much of the world. But take a long look at the remote, sinking town of Santiago Mitlatongo, in Mexico, and that arc appears to slump - and not just graphically. The geologic term is "slumping"; its foundation diminished by erosion, Santiago Mitlatongo is sliding down its mountain at a rate of about a meter per day.
The photographer Matt Black has been seeking stories of the indigenous tribes of southern Mexico and the migrants to the Central Valley of California for 10 years, traveling back and forth and documenting the effects on these changing cultures and economies. His series, "After the Fall," which was first published in the September/October issue of Orion Magazine, is narrow in scope - it's just one remote Mixteca town upended by a slow-motion tragedy - but the themes it illuminates are vast, implicating the last several centuries of North American history begun by Columbus's landing 520 years ago this Friday (though observed in most of the United States on Monday). 
"Here's the story of this town where literally lives turn upside down," said Mr. Black, 42, who first photographed this pre-Columbian society in December. "It looked like the entire town had gone through a blender," he said.
"The Mixteca were one of the great civilizations in Mesoamerica. And it's just completely unraveling."
In 1998, after a cold spell had killed off the citrus trees near his home in Exeter, Calif., Mr. Black went to photograph the migrant communities that were suddenly out of work. He heard the Mixteca language spoken for the first time and was entranced. And he was curious to know how these people, who were discriminated against by Spanish-speaking Mexicans as well as by whites, could tolerate life as migrants here - what was so bad at home that this was better?
The Mixteca region, which straddles the Oaxaca, Guerrero and Puebla states in southern Mexico, has been subject to centuries of erosion. It's unclear if it was initiated by the Spaniards and their crops, cattle and church-building, or even before the Spanish invasion, when the Aztecs exacted tribute from the Mixtecs, who perhaps overtilled their land to meet the demands. Either way, the erosion has probably been exacerbated by modern agricultural practices and the effects of climate change. Today, it's a desert; the Mixtecs can barely feed themselves, so they migrate to the United States, leaving behind fragments of towns that can no longer function well enough to support themselves.
San Miguel Cuevas, another Mixteca town that Mr. Black photographed, has lost 80 percent of its population to migration, he said, making it essentially a ghost town. He was dismayed that this resilient culture, so profoundly tethered to the land, was witnessing that land swept out from underneath it by unstoppable forces. Walking the dusty paths of Santiago Mitlatongo, Mr. Black described an air of mourning. "There's this whole other layer of meaning there culturally, and people would describe it to me like someone just died," he said.
"Their land is like a member of their family."
This migration story is also a cruel inversion of historical norms. It is heart-wrenching, Mr. Black said, that the Mixtecs, having for so long subsisted on their own land and hard work - using traditional techniques that span centuries - are forced to abandon their now-barren land to work the massive machines of industrialized agriculture in the United States. These industrialized, subsidized crops in the United States are cheap, and Mexico imports, for instance, 80 percent of its corn from here.
The circumstances in this region are reminiscent of the dust storms that blanketed the Great Plains in the 1930s, which resulted from the erosion of crop-choked land. Those storms initiated a mass migration of "Okies" to California's Central Valley.
"I'm from an area that was utterly transformed by the Dust Bowl," said Mr. Black. "The Dust Bowl didn't happen here, but that's part of the legacy of this place. It really created this place," he said, noting an uneasy feeling of witnessing history repeat itself.
"This is one of the great civilizations of the Americas," he said. "I mean, the Mixtecs have the oldest continuous written history in the Americas - older than the Aztecs, older than the Incas." It survived colonialism and the Spanish conquest, and for centuries this forgotten Mixteca town escaped bludgeons of globalization. And now it's tumbling down a hill.
Orion Magazine and Daylight Multimedia produced a multimedia version of "After the Fall." Part One is here and Part Two is here. 
 Follow @MattBlack_Matt and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. 

        
Life on Both Sides of the Border
        
Piling in a Flatbed to Get By in the Suburbs
        
On a California Farm Where Marijuana Grows
        
Modern Agonies in Ancient Mexican Villages
        
Pictures of the Day: Nigeria and Elsewhere

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); HISTORY (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (76%); MIGRANT WORKERS (74%); CLIMATE CHANGE (74%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (67%) Agriculture; California; Colonialism; Columbus Day; Dust Bowl; Industrial revolution; Matt Black; Matt McCann; Migrant workers; Oaxaca; Orion Magazine; Agriculture and Farming; Corn; Migrant Labor (Agriculture); Photography; Central Valley (Calif); Mexico; Oaxaca (Mexico); Black, Matt; Showcase

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SPAIN (79%) California; Central Valley (Calif); Mexico; Oaxaca (Mexico)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2013



329 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: UnitedHealth to Buy Control of Brazilian Company for $4.9 Billion

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: The UnitedHealth Group agreed on Monday to buy a 90 percent stake in the Brazilian health care provider Amil Participa&#231;&#245;es for $4.9 billion, as the American insurer looked to expand in the fast-growing country. 

 BODY:
 8:52 a.m. | Updated 
The UnitedHealth Group agreed on Monday to buy a 90 percent stake in the Brazilian health care provider Amil Participações for $4.9 billion as the American insurer looked to expand in the fast-growing country.
Insurers like UnitedHealth have been hunting for growth opportunities overseas, hoping to counter tepid prospects in their home markets. While the introduction of the Affordable Care Act is expected to increase the number of customers, the new health care law will not significantly lift profits.
With the acquisition of Amil, UnitedHealth is aiming to capitalize on the favorable demographics of Brazil, which is benefiting from a strong economy and a growing middle class. In this environment, health care is booming. The number of policyholders for private health benefits rose 37 percent from 2005 to 2011.
 Even so, there is room for growth. Only a quarter of Brazil's population has such coverage. By contrast, nearly 80 percent of Americans buy health insurance.
Amil is one of the country's largest health care providers, with more than five million customers. This year, the company is on track to post revenue of $5 billion, 15 percent more than in 2011.
"Brazil has emerged as a consistently growing and evolving market for private sector health benefits and services," UnitedHealth's chief excutive, Stephen J. Hemsley, said in a statement. "Combining Amil, the clear market leader serving an underpenetrated market of nearly 200 million people, with UnitedHealth Group's experiences and capabilities developed over the last three decades is the most compelling growth and value creation opportunity we have seen in years."
Under the terms of the deal, UnitedHealth, based in Minnetonka, Minn., will first buy a 60 percent stake in Amil, and then an additional 30 percent during the first half of 2013. After counting the tax breaks, UnitedHealth said the proposed deal would cost around $4.3 billion.
Amil's founder, Edson de Godoy Bueno, and his business partner, Dulce Pugliese de Godoy Bueno, will retain a 10 percent stake in Amil. Mr. Bueno will continue to run Amil and will join UnitedHealth's board.

        
Why MetroPCS Is Truly in Play
        
Sprint Shares Fall on Report of Possible Counterbid for MetroPCS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (93%); INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MARKET INCIDENCE (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (71%) Amil Participacoes SA; Brazil; Hemsley, Stephen J; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; UnitedHealth Group Inc; UnitedHealth Group Inc|UNH|NYSE; Healthcare; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: AMIL PARTICIPACOES SA (91%); UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (91%); METROPCS COMMUNICATIONS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Amil Participacoes SA; UnitedHealth Group Inc

TICKER: AMIL3 (BOVESPA) (91%); UNH (NYSE) (91%); PCS (NYSE) (52%) UnitedHealth Group Inc; UNH; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS621491 HMO MEDICAL CENTERS (91%); SIC8011 OFFICES & CLINICS OF DOCTORS OF MEDICINE (91%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (91%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: STEPHEN J HEMSLEY (78%) Hemsley, Stephen J

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) BRAZIL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%) Brazil

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



330 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1677 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: They're Talking About Us!

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Obama and Romney focus on small business. Unemployment falls. And how to generate word of mouth. Did the debate alter your thinking? 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.

The Debate: Small Businesses Front and Center 
The first presidential debate favored Governor Romney, and small businesses were front and center. Stocks rallied the next day. Unfortunately, too many people were playing drinking games to pay attention. But these are five good takeaways from the night. And here's one issue the candidates missed.
 The Fiscal Cliff: Fears Grow 
Fears begin to build about the looming cliff, and some people are concerned it may impede job growth. Americans may see smaller paychecks next year as payroll tax breaks expire. Senate leaders to avoid mandatory cuts. A group offers a $2 trillion alternative. Rick Newman advises on how to prepare. Dana Blankenhorn says the real fiscal cliff is economic growth: "So let's assume we're all about to be made happy, with faster growth, and lower unemployment starting to push up wages. What happens, then, to the government's costs for borrowing new money? It goes up. And small increases in interest rates make for a big change in costs, when calculated as a percentage. It's simple math." Chairman Bernanke answers five questions. The Postal Service defaults again.
 The Economy: Slow Growth, Rising Stress 
The unemployment rate falls to 7.8 percent, and ADP says companies added 162,000 jobs to payrolls. Jack Welch says the president cooked the books; Paul Krugman says Republicans can't handle the truth. Advertised vacancies rise. But weekly unemployment claims go up again. An Intuit index shows that small-business growth is slowing, and TD Bank says small-business owners' stress levels are rising. Wells Fargo's chief financial officer offers a sober outlook on the economy. Chief executives sharply reduce their expectations. Harlan Levy says that "other than technology, it's hard to see any part of the U.S. economy growing more than 1 percent or 2 percent." Retailers report slower sales growth. The domestic office market barely gains in the third quarter. Manufacturing new orders are "a disaster." Curt Schilling may even have to sell his bloody sock. But mall vacancies declined and auto sales stayed strong with Ford reporting truck sales at their best pace since 2007. The service sector grew in September and holiday sales are expected to rise 4.1 percent. Home prices went up in August.
 Your People: More Caffeine 
The debate continues over whether an entrepreneurial M.B.A. degree is worth the time and money. This is how one teenage entrepreneur snubbed college to build an apps empire. Leigh Branham says there are seven reasons employees move on. Here's a guide to maternity and paternity leave for small businesses. These 15 professions drink the most coffee.
 Marketing: Free Cookies
Neil Patel has some advice on handling sales, including: "Offer a free trial." Here are four things for small businesses to keep in mind as they consider how they can leverage the media, both online and off. Drew McLellan offers seven tips for creating compelling case studies. Girl Scout cookie packaging gets a redesign. Laura Click says there are seven mistakes that will kill your e-mail marketing, like not offering a "cookie" to sign up (she's not talking about Girl Scout cookies). Marcus Sheridan says there are seven reasons blogging is failing to generate leads for so many marketing agencies, starting with this: "The reality is the marketing industry is full of blogs that simply are boring." Rebekah Henson explains how to market like Google.
 Social Media: Mars Has a Mayor?
The first Foursquare check-in is made from Mars. The Bengals celebrate Gangnam style. A tweet from KitchenAid shows (yet again) why social media needs mature talent. Facebook tops a billion users. Here are five social lessons small businesses can learn from big businesses. This music video was made by 2,601 people. David discusses the pros and cons of creating video or keeping it audio only.
 Customer Service: Generating Word of Mouth 
U.P.S. is now providing a new online destination that answers small-business owners' requests for support. Jeremy Epstein explains how Merrell Shoes generates word of mouth. Andy Sernovitz shares a tale about a boring store: "If people aren't stopping in their tracks in front of your door, you're missing the point. Close your store and start a direct-mail business." Tina Imperial says that customer touch points are your chance to show how good you are.
 Start-Up: A Floating Touch Screen! 
A new study from the Kauffman Foundation shows where entrepreneurs come from. Women are flocking to start-ups but trailing in computer tech. This start-up promises a touch screen that floats in the air. Jim Smith wonders if you should start a business in a red or a blue state. Catherine Clifford goes inside the workings of an accelerator. Seven cancer survivors turn their experiences into small-business ideas. Cezary Pietrzak explains why your start-up's name matters. A company amasses restaurant data so that subscribers can update their own profiles in local search directories.
 Management: A Tale of Two Arcades 
AshleyMadison.com, a site for cheaters, questions Groupon's ethics, and Noah Fleming has ideas for how the daily deal site can save itself. Goldman Sach's chief executive says that operating a small business is as hard as running his firm. An I.B.M. executive gives advice for growing businesses. President Obama's approach to management depends heavily on routines, such as wearing only gray or blue suits. In a video, Teri Geymi explains how to break free from the limitations of fear. This tale of two pinball arcades shows why one struggles while the other survives. Dean Black wants to know what your daily calendar looks like. These are the 2012 MacArthur grant winners. Tracey Schelmetic wonders if clusters are the future of advanced manufacturing. This is what B movies tell us about entrepreneurship. A team of high school soccer players show how to stick together.
 Cash Flow: When to Buy Furniture 
Small-business lending rises. Chase claims small-business successes. Here's how companies manipulate earnings. Here's some advice on when to buy new office furniture, and this is an irreplaceable guide to buying Halloween candy. A regulation overhaul is on the horizon for New York City small businesses. Valpak is giving $10,000 to North America's favorite small business.
 Around the World: Russia Loses $58 Billion 
Eurozone unemployment hits 11.4 percent, and one in 10 European employees is depressed. Matthew Kalman tells the story of a successful Palestinian start-up. Eric Krell lists the riskiest countries in the world and how to protect yourself. This game proves that you're much worse at geography than you thought (but not as bad as Apple.) Rob Cox says that Vietnam is a bad example for emerging markets. Manufacturing growth in India holds steady. China gears up to make more overseas investments. Mexico's economy may be giving Brazil and China a run for their money. Russia watches $58 billion in capital leave the country. A human-flesh meat market opens in London. Start-Up Chile gains traction.
 Technology: A Headstone App 
The Internal Revenue Service revamps its Web site to make it more small-business friendly. Tim Murphy takes you inside the technology of the Obama campaign. Meanwhile, the White House gets attacked online. Researchers at the University of Surrey have made a great step forward in storing hydrogen or methane to power cars. PayPal introduces free online invoicing for small businesses. QR Codes are appearing on headstones. This infographic shows how small businesses are using mobile apps. Mass production of the mini-iPad is reported, and Intel's production problems may affect Microsoft's new tablet. Ultrabook sales forecasts are cut in half. Emily Suess lists five smartphone apps for businesses. This is how much energy a smartphone uses in a year (and what it means for your budget). And even though there are too many battery factories and too few electric cars, the battery of the future might run on sugar.
 Tweets of the Week 
@cfibTO - They should have called this the presidential #debate on small business. Two dozen mentions of #smallbiz in the first 20min. Amazing!
[#x200f]@armano - Oh snap. I need to wear a suit tomorrow. It's like Superman eating a bowl of Kryptonite
 This Week's Bests:
 Daniel Kehrer explains how rock star customers can help you grow. "Rock star customers won't help grow your business on their own. Even customers who identify themselves as 'promoters' in customer surveys - saying they'd be highly likely to refer you to a colleague or friend - aren't actually doing so. Studies have shown that only about 10 percent of self-described promoters actually refer profitable new customers. The key is this: You have to take the initiative and make it easy for them to do so."
 Two researchers find there's a dark side to flattery: "Our theory suggests how high levels of flattery and opinion conformity can increase C.E.O.'s overconfidence in their strategic judgment and leadership capability, which results in biased strategic decision making."
 Michael Schuman reports on the myth of Chinese efficiency. "I can imagine pampered visitors thinking China is something it is not. If you fly into the nifty airports in Beijing or Shanghai, get whisked by a waiting driver to your snazzy hotel, have a few meetings, and then get escorted out again, China might appear to be a sparkling vision of modernity. But spend any time here, or try to really do anything, and the notion that China is an efficient place is rudely exposed as a myth."
 This Week's Question: Did the debate alter your thinking?
 Gene Marks owns the Marks Group , a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter. 

        
This Week in Small Business: About That Replacement Ref
        
This Week in Small Business: $931 Billion in Cash
        
This Week in Small Business: An Elevator on the Moon
        
This Week in Small Business: Trash Talk
        
This Week in Small Business: Reinventing the Toilet

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); RETAIL SALES (66%); FACTORY ORDERS (66%); RETAILERS (61%); HOME PRICES (50%) economy; Small Business; Entrepreneurship; Presidential Election of 2012; Start-ups; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (81%); INTUIT INC (54%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (81%); INTU (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (54%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JACK WELCH (58%); PAUL KRUGMAN (53%); BEN BERNANKE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



331 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2034 words

HEADLINE: A Regulatory Odd Couple

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Regulators are getting help policing the rapid-fire markets from an unlikely source - the rapid-fire traders. | Insiders say Twitter is aiming to go public in 2014. | President Obama has a Wall Street problem in Silicon Valley. | The UnitedHealth Group strikes a deal to expand in Brazil. 

 BODY:
The Odd Couple: The S.E.C. and High-Frequency Traders | Regulators are getting help policing the rapid-fire markets from an unlikely source - the rapid-fire traders. Tradeworx, 45-person high-speed trading firm based in New Jersey, has designed a program that will allow the Securities and Exchange Commission to see every bid and offer on each of the nation's 13 public stock exchanges. "The system, akin to an X-ray machine for the stock market, could enable regulators to detect whether trading firms are overwhelming the market's plumbing when they rapidly submit and cancel orders," Nathaniel Popper and Ben Protess write in The New York Times. While critics contend the program is akin to "the fox guarding the hen house," the trading firm defends its partnership with regulators. "Where else are they going to be able to get these capabilities?" said Manoj Narang, the chief executive of Tradeworx.
 Looking Ahead to a Twitter I.P.O. | While many social networking companies rushed to the public markets, Twitter seems to be taking the slow, methodical path. Insiders say the company is aiming to go public in 2014, and "after the Facebook fiasco," the chief executive, Dick Costolo, "will have to persuade Wall Street that Twitter, and its share price, could keep rising," Nick Bilton writes in The New York Times.
The I.P.O.'s of Facebook, Zynga and other companies hang like a cloud over the tech industry. There is even speculative chatter in Silicon Valley that Zynga's best hope might be to go private again.
Twitter's employees have reason to be wary of the public market. According to The Wall Street Journal, nonexecutive employees of four big Internet companies that went public in the past 16 months have collectively lost about $9 billion in paper wealth since their I.P.O.'s. At Facebook, the average rank-and-file worker has lost about $2 million on paper since the I.P.O., The Journal says, citing calculations by Equilar.
Tech Titans Warm to Romney | President Obama has a Wall Street problem in Silicon Valley. In the start-up capital, Mitt Romney and the Republican party "have made clear inroads," reports Somini Sengupta in The New York Times. Marc Andreessen, the venture capitalist and Facebook investor, has contributed more than $100,000 to Mr. Romney this year, after backing President Obama with a $4,600 donation in 2008. Some tech investors even seem to be echoing Wall Street's complaints. "There needs to be some reaffirmation through words and deeds that engines of innovation are valued," said Robert Nelsen, the managing director of the Seattle-based Arch Ventures.
UnitedHealth to Buy Brazilian Healthcare Company for $4.9 Billion | The UnitedHealth Group agreed on Monday to buy a 90 percent stake in Amil Participações for $4.9 billion, in a deal to expand in Brazil.
On the Agenda | The bond market is closed for Columbus Day. Earnings season kicks off this week, with Alcoa reporting on Tuesday. JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo announce results on Friday.
The founder of the Vanguard Group, John C. Bogle, is on CNBC at 12:30 p.m. Lee C. Buchheit, a top attorney at Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton who has been called "the philosopher king of sovereign debt lawyers," is on CNBC at 3 p.m. Ben S. Bernanke is visiting India through Wednesday. The European Central Bank and the Federal Reserve are holding a joint conference in Frankfurt to discuss bank financing.
Preparing Europe's Bailout Bazooka | The board overseeing the European bailout fund is having its first meeting on Monday in Luxembourg to discuss how to deploy the $650 billion fund, referred to as a "bazooka." It should be interesting, given that there is little consensus on the details. The New York Times writes: "Euro zone member states have not yet agreed on the circumstances under which the fund will be used directly to prop up a country's commercial banks - as Spain would like - to avoid piling even more debt onto national balance sheets. And until the fund starts selling bonds, there is no way of telling whether investors will buy them."
The political tensions are weighing on the market. Stocks fell in Europe on Monday, and the euro fell against the dollar and the yen.
EADS and BAE Face a Wednesday Deadline | The two European aerospace giants are up against a Wednesday deadline to file a merger plan. But political wrangling continues. The governments of Britain, France and Germany are haggling over "the best way to balance state interests in the merged company, either through direct ownership of shares or through the granting of special voting rights to the governments, said the people close to the negotiations," The New York Times reports. Germany is now said to be "holding out for more," according to Bloomberg News.
Bernanke on the Nationals | The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, wrote an essay in Saturday's Wall Street Journal professing his devotion to the Washington Nationals, and arguing that politicians could learn something from the baseball team's strategy. As if to prove Mr. Bernanke's thesis, the Nationals eked out a victory over the St. Louis Cardinals on Sunday.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Corporate Leaders Report Little Appetite for Deals | A survey by Ernst & Young found that just 25 percent of a group of more than 1,500 executives expected to pursue an acquisition over the next six months, the most pessimistic result since 2009, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Chairwoman of Avon to Step Down | Andrea Jung, who resigned last year as chief executive of Avon Products, said she would step down as executive chairwoman at the end of the year, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Staples Seen as a Potential Takeover Target | The company is now "cheaper than 93 percent of similar-sized U.S. specialty retailers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg." BLOOMBERG NEWS
Hutchison to Pitch Deal to European Regulators | In a private hearing with European regulators on Wednesday, Hutchison 3G will argue for its proposed takeover of Orange Austria, Reuters reports, citing an unidentified person familiar with the matter. REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
The Return of Neuberger Berman | After being dragged down in the collapse of Lehman Brothers, Neuberger Berman is "freshly invigorated and focused on the essentials in the way disaster survivors tend to be," Barron's writes in its cover story. BARRONS
Investors Flock to Below-Investment-Grade Bonds | The popularity of high-yield bonds has pushed yields to record lows, Floyd Norris writes in his column in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Spanish Bank Depositors Cry Foul | Some depositors in Spain, whose banks sold them unusual investments that have fallen in value, are claiming they were not given sufficient information about the securities, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
New Methods in Hacking Attack on Banks | The hackers that recently targeted big American banks used "data centers around the world that had been infected with a sophisticated form of malware that can evade detection by antivirus solutions," the Bits blog writes. NEW YORK TIMES BITS
Diverse Strategies Helped 3 Mutual Funds | Three of the better-performing mutual funds in the third quarter invested in sectors ranging from all-terrain vehicles to European banks, The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
Top Goldman and Morgan Stanley Executives Said to Join Firms in Qatar | The top executives of Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley in Qatar have departed for local firms, Reuters reports, citing three unidentified people. REUTERS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Big Buyouts Remain in Private Equity Hands | Some of the biggest deals from the industry's "golden" years have yet to be sold, creating a situation that "could become problematic if not soon rectified," Fortune's Dan Primack writes. FORTUNE
Allscripts Said to Attract Private Equity Bids | The Carlyle Group, the Blackstone Group and Silver Lake Management have submitted first-round bids for Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, which is considering a buyout, Bloomberg News reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the talks. BLOOMBERG NEWS
HHI Group to Be Sold for $750 Million | The private equity firm American Securities is paying cash for the HHI Group, an auto-parts supplier, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Britain Claims a Bigger Share of European Buyouts | 
FINANCIAL TIMES
Terra Firma Said to Plan Fund for Renewable Energy | The private equity firm Terra Firma is working with the China Development Bank to raise up to $5 billion to invest in the renewable energy sector, Reuters reports, citing an unidentified person familiar with the situation. REUTERS
Zell to Name New Head of International Operations | 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
HEDGE FUNDS »
An Activist Investor With a Quiet Style | Barry Rosenstein of Jana Partners told The Wall Street Journal: "I get a lot more out of these C.E.O.'s by not embarrassing them publicly, by not being viewed as trying to nail their scalp to the wall." WALL STREET JOURNAL
Fund Reaches Deal With Wet Seal | The Clinton Group, which owns about 6.9 percent of Wet Seal, is installing four of its nominees on the retailer's board, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Hedge Funds Bid Up Commodity Prices | The increase in bullish bets ended a two-week rout, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Chinese Telecom Giant Under Scrutiny | Huawei, which is said to be considering an I.P.O., is the subject of an investigation that has "raised concerns about national security, Chinese espionage, and Huawei's murky connections to the Chinese government," reports CBS's "60 Minutes." CBS NEWS
Solar Panel Company Aims to Raise $201 Million in I.P.O. | SolarCity, whose chairman is Elon Musk, is looking to challenge investor skepticism about solar companies. BLOOMBERG NEWS
A Third of Prada Managers Depart After I.P.O. | 
FINANCIAL TIMES
MegaFon of Russia May Announce I.P.O. This Week | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
VENTURE CAPITAL »
When Patents Are Used as Weapons | In the latest installment in the iEconomy series in The New York Times, Charles Duhigg and Steve Lohr report that the technology industry is said to have been "corrupted by software patents used as destructive weapons." NEW YORK TIMES
Cash Flows Are Critical for Tesla | Mitt Romney recently referred to electric-car maker Tesla Motors as a loser. Sales of its sedan are strong, but a look at the company's cash flows suggests it isn't out of the woods just yet. DealBook »
Trinity Ventures Raising $325 Million Fund | 
TECHCRUNCH
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Lehman Units Settle $38 Billion of Claims | The deal was called a "critical milestone" by James Giddens, the trustee liquidating Lehman's brokerage unit, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Wall Street Regulator Ramps Up Enforcement | The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, once considered a toothless regulator, brought a record number of enforcement cases over the past year, as fines soared. DealBook »
Antitrust Questions in Apple's Use of Maps App | Apple's decision to go with its own maps technology in its iPhone seems like what is known as a tying arrangement, writes James B. Stewart in his column in The New York Times. "To the degree that tying arrangements extend the control of a dominant producer, they may violate antitrust laws." NEW YORK TIMES
Law Firms Cut Costs From the Back Office | 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
The Municipal Bond Market's Backward Ways | Despite attempts by regulators to force municipal bond issuers to disclose basic financial information, some "don't seem to have gotten the message. More disturbing, regulators don't seem to care," writes Gretchen Morgenson in her column in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Outspoken Economist Takes an Indian Government Role | Raghuram G. Rajan, an economist who has criticized India's policy makers, was named chief economic adviser in the country's Finance Ministry, where he is looking to change India's financial system, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (67%); VENTURE CAPITAL (65%); STARTUPS (60%); HEALTH CARE (50%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (60%); FACEBOOK INC (55%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%)

TICKER: UNH (NYSE) (60%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (60%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (66%); MARC ANDREESSEN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



332 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: On Our Radar: California's Runaway Gasoline Prices

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Gov. Jerry Brown directs regulators to relax pollution rules so production can increase at refineries. 

 BODY:
As gasoline prices head toward $5 a gallon in California, Gov. Jerry Brown tells state regulators to relax smog controls so oil refineries can increase supplies of cheaper fuel. Meanwhile, police officers are contending with scattered cases of fuel theft from filling stations. [Bloomberg News, The Los Angeles Times]
The Department of Energy fines a nuclear research lab in Idaho for safety violations that exposed workers to radioactive contamination last year. [Reuters]
A look at how scientists and engineers at the United States Naval Research Laboratory propose to turn seawater into fuel for warships so they can refuel at sea. The big question is whether the effort could be scaled up to levels that are economically practical. [Gizmag]
Oregon's governor bans bonfires and campfires as the state struggles with wildfires linked to a run of unusually dry weather. [Q13Fox]
BP will sell its sprawling Texas City refinery and nearby pipelines and terminals for $598 million and its inventory of oil and petroleum for $1.2 billion to Marathon Petroleum. BP been trying to sell refining and other assets to help cover costs associated with the 2010 Deepwater Horizon explosion and oil spill. [Associated Press]

        
Tsunami Debris Strains Budgets and Patience
        
On Our Radar: BP to Tame Refinery Flares
        
A Bird's Convoluted Conservation Odyssey
        
On Our Radar: Brazil May Import Ethanol From U.S.
        
On Our Radar: Cyclists Flock to London's Bike-Lane 'Superhighways'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); NAVIES (90%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); OIL SPILLS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); FIRES (90%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (90%); SMOG (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (76%); ALCOHOLS (73%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (73%); ETHANOL (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (71%); MILITARY VESSELS (70%); CYCLING (64%) BP; California; gasoline prices; Marathon; nuclear research; Oregon; radioactive contamination; Refineries; seawater; shipping fuel; United States Navy; wildfires

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (72%); MARATHON OIL CORP (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (58%); MARATHON PETROLEUM CORP (55%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (59%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%); MRO (NYSE) (58%); MPC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (58%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012



333 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Romney Says White House Botched Response to Benghazi Attack

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL


HIGHLIGHT: As Mitt Romney gave his foreign policy speech, his campaign and President Obama's allies battled over primacy on foreign policy issues. 

 BODY:
 5:39 p.m. | Updated LEXINGTON, Va. -- After weeks of refraining from dipping back into the sensitive topic of the attack that killed the American ambassador in Libya, Mitt Romney on Monday offered harsh criticism of the administration for being slow to label the assault terrorism and faulted its overall handling of the attack. 
The assault on the diplomatic mission in Benghazi "cannot be blamed on a reprehensible video insulting Islam, despite the administration's attempts to convince us of that for so long,'' Mr. Romney said. "No, as the administration has finally conceded, these attacks were the deliberate work of terrorists who use violence to impose their dark ideology on others.''
In a wide-ranging foreign policy address meant to polish Mr. Romney's image as a potential commander in chief, he belittled President Obama as "leading from behind" in conflict spots across the Middle East, from Syria to Iran to Egypt to Israel.
Acknowledging that Mr. Obama deserves credit for killing Osama bin Laden, he nonetheless criticized the president as lacking a comprehensive counterterrorism policy and failing to capitalize on the Arab Spring uprisings.
"Unfortunately, so many of these people who could be our friends feel that our president is indifferent to their quest for freedom and dignity,'' he said, speaking at the Virginia Military Institute. "As one Syrian woman put it, 'We will not forget that you forgot about us.'" 
On Iran, Mr. Romney said that the president's sanctions had failed to slow its march to a nuclear weapon. He would "put the leaders of Iran on notice" that the United States, along with "friends and allies," would halt that progress, beginning with a show of military force.
"I will restore the permanent presence of aircraft carrier task forces in both the eastern Mediterranean and the Gulf,'' Mr. Romney said, speaking in the Hall of Valor of the Virginia Military Institute. "For the sake of peace, we must make clear to Iran through actions - not just words - that their nuclear pursuit will not be tolerated.''
He went further, linking Iran's continued progress toward a nuclear weapon to Mr. Obama's putting "daylight" between the Unites States and Israel, which Mr. Romney said "emboldened" Iran. 
"The world must never see any daylight between our two nations,'' he said. Some Middle East experts have described that formulation as having the potential to lead the United States into war, given the bellicose signals of the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, toward Iran. 
The Obama campaign pushed back aggressively on Mr. Romney's address, beginning early in the day, when excerpts from the speech were released. It held up past inconsistencies and stumbles by Mr. Romney, including calling Russia the country's "No. 1 geopolitical foe'' and opposing support for the Libyan insurgency before its ultimate success. 
Two national security advisers to the Obama campaign, Michèle Flournoy and Colin Kahl, critiqued Mr. Romney's "unseemly response" in attacking the administration for rushing "to sympathize with those who waged the attacks'' on American outposts on Sept. 11, before the death of Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens was confirmed.
Mr. Romney's "instinct was to play politics with the tragedy and attempt to score political points in any way he could,'' the advisers wrote.
Madeleine Albright, the secretary of state under President Bill Clinton, said in a conference call after Mr. Romney's speech, "To someone not totally into foreign policy, it sounds pretty good, but it's really full of platitudes.''
"For someone who has spent her own life in foreign policy, there's an awful lot of rhetoric," she said, adding, "You don't get the sense he knows what tools to use and how to operate in an international setting and what the role of the United States is in the 21st century.''
Roving broadly in his speech over Iraq, Afghanistan and counterterrorism, Mr. Romney conspicuously left one name unmentioned: George W. Bush, the architect of much of the unilateralist policy in the region, a version of which Mr. Romney embraced. 
"It is the responsibility of our president to use America's great power to shape history - not to lead from behind, leaving our destiny at the mercy of events,'' Mr. Romney said. "Unfortunately, that is exactly where we find ourselves in the Middle East under President Obama.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (94%); TERRORISM (92%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); POLITICS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); MILITARY VESSELS (65%); NAVAL VESSELS (65%); CAUCUSES (62%); RELIGION (56%) Albright, Madeleine K; bin Laden, Osama; Bush, George W; Clinton, Bill; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Defense and Military Forces; Diplomatic Service, Embassies and Consulates; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; International Relations; Iraq War (2003-11); Middle East and North Africa Unrest (2010- ); Presidential Election of 2012; United States International Relations; Al Qaeda; State Department; Virginia Military Institute; Benghazi (Libya); Iran; Iraq; Israel; Middle East; Syria; United States; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%); VIRGINIA MILITARY INSTITUTE (82%) Al Qaeda; State Department; Virginia Military Institute

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%) Albright, Madeleine K; bin Laden, Osama; Bush, George W; Clinton, Bill; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAQ (93%); SYRIA (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); EGYPT (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%) Benghazi (Libya); Iran; Iraq; Israel; Middle East; Syria; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



334 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: Investors' Billion-Dollar Fraud Fighter

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: With last month's Bank of America settlement, Max Berger has been responsible for six securities class-action settlements of more than $1 billion. 

 BODY:
A few days after securing the largest shareholder recovery arising from the financial crisis - $2.43 billion from Bank of America - the plaintiffs' lawyer Max W. Berger was not taking a victory lap.
"It makes me sad that in all of these scandals, no matter how good a job we do of getting results and inflicting pain, the government doesn't seem to follow suit, and nobody learns, and it's business as usual," he said in an interview.
After a pregnant pause, Mr. Berger broke into a sly smile. He had another thought: "It gives us a lot of business, but it still makes me sad."
 With last month's settlement with Bank of America, which resolved claims that the bank had misled shareholders about its acquisition of an ailing Merrill Lynch, Mr. Berger, 66, has now been responsible for six securities class-action settlements of more than $1 billion. His firm, Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann, based in Manhattan, has represented investors in five of the 10 largest securities-fraud recoveries. So far, it has recovered $4.5 billion for investors in cases connected to the subprime mortgage collapse.
"He is unquestionably one the giants of the plaintiffs' bar," said Brad S. Karp, the managing partner at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, who represented Bank of America and has faced off against Mr. Berger in several other cases. "And what sets Max apart, beyond his talents as a lawyer, is that he's a mensch, a person of real humility and integrity."
There was a time, not too long ago, when the lions of the securities class-action bar were described in far less flattering terms. For decades, Melvyn I. Weiss and William S. Lerach, a pair of brash, crafty plaintiffs' lawyers, dominated this lucrative pocket of the legal industry. Their firm, Milberg Weiss, revolutionized shareholder class-action suits by filing streams of cases against corporations, accusing them of accounting fraud. Critics called their aggressive tactics legalized blackmail. Congress passed laws aimed at reining in their practices.
The careers of Mr. Weiss and Mr. Lerach ended in disgrace in 2006, when their firm was indicted on charges that it had funneled illegal kickbacks to clients to induce them to sue. Mr. Weiss, Mr. Lerach and two other Milberg Weiss partners ultimately served prison terms. (It did not help the standing of the plaintiffs' bar that at about the same time, Richard F. Scruggs, the Mississippi class-action lawyer, was imprisoned for trying to bribe a judge.)
"To be tarred by those brushes was very upsetting, but it was even worse to have everyone presume that we operated in the same way," Mr. Berger said. "After they were charged, I can't tell you how many people said, 'Well, isn't that what all of you do?' "
Yet a half-decade after Milberg's downfall, there has been a shift in the public image and reputation of the securities class-action bar. The Bank of America settlement, which is still subject to judicial approval, comes at a moment when plaintiffs' lawyers are being praised for extracting stiff penalties from banks related to their actions during the housing boom and the subsequent economic collapse. At the same time, resource-constrained government regulators have been criticized for not being tough enough.
In several cases, private plaintiffs have settled lawsuits for amounts far greater than the government received in similar actions. Bank of America, for instance, paid the Securities and Exchange Commission just $150 million to settle the commission's lawsuit connected to the Merrill acquisition. Judge Jed S. Rakoff reluctantly approved the S.E.C. settlement, calling it "inadequate and misguided" and the dollar amount "paltry."
"The securities class-action bar has come under relentless assault over the years," said J. Robert Brown Jr., a corporate law professor at the University of Denver. "Yet these suits, especially the ones tied to the financial crisis, actually have had real value in the capital markets because companies need to know that there is a heavy price to pay for their misconduct."
There are still detractors who scoff at that notion. These critics view securities class-action lawyers as bounty hunters who file nuisance lawsuits against deep-pocketed targets and then force them to settle rather than engage in costly litigation. They argue that the settlements have little deterrent effect because the payments almost always come from the corporations, not the executives and directors running the companies.
And questions have arisen over plaintiffs' lawyers' campaign contributions to local politicians who control the selection of legal counsel for shareholder lawsuits filed by public pension funds.
But even the most vocal opponents of securities-fraud class actions acknowledge that a variety of factors, including a combination of federal legislation and court rulings, have curbed abuses in the system. Many of the weakest cases are now thrown out earlier, and large institutional shareholders like state pension funds and insurance companies have taken greater control of the lawsuits.
They are also reining in the lawyers' fees. In the past, plaintiffs' lawyers received 20 percent to one-third of the settlement amount. Today the average fee award as a percentage of the recovery is much lower. In Bank of America, for example, Bernstein Litowitz and two other firms - Kessler Topaz Meltzer & Check and Kaplan Fox & Kilsheimer - are expected to ask for about $150 million, or 6 percent of the settlement.
"Things have definitely improved," said Theodore H. Frank, an adjunct fellow at the Manhattan Institute and a longtime critic of abusive class actions. "Is it perfect? No. Is it better? Yes."
Legal experts say the class actions filed after the financial crisis highlight the improvements. The lawsuits were far more risky and complex than the template "strike suits" that plaintiffs' firms once churned out every time a company's share price plummeted. And unlike large corporate scandals like Enron or WorldCom, there were no balance-sheet restatements or criminal convictions to use as evidence.
"We never viewed these cases as easy but felt we needed to be in them in a big way, so we really doubled down," Mr. Berger said.
Bernstein Litowitz's recent settlements read like a who's who of the "too big to fail" era. Wachovia and its auditor paid its bondholders $627 million to resolve charges related to its mortgage holdings. Merrill Lynch settled claims that it had misled buyers of mortgage products for $315 million. Lehman Brothers' underwriters paid $426 million to end a lawsuit over its stock sales. Washington Mutual's underwriters and insurers paid $205 million to investors in the now-collapsed bank.
The big mortgage-related settlements are expected to add up to hundreds of millions in fees for Bernstein Litowitz, a 52-lawyer firm. Mr. Berger and his three founding partners started the firm in 1983 after splitting off from Kreindler & Kreindler, a plaintiffs' firm best known for its aviation-disaster litigation.
The Bank of America settlement is a boon for the firm, ending nearly four years of bruising litigation and coming less than a month before it was set for trial. The lawsuit accused Bank of America of concealing from its shareholders, who were voting on the Merrill acquisition, the billions of dollars in mounting losses at Merrill, as well as billions in bonuses being paid out to Merrill executives.
Bernstein Litowitz and two other firms represented five plaintiffs: two Ohio pension funds, a Texas pension fund and two European pensions. Working with Mr. Berger on the case were his partners Mark Lebovitch, Hannah Ross and Steven B. Singer.
"This case will now serve as Exhibit A for corporate directors tempted to withhold information from shareholders," Mr. Berger said. "The message isn't complicated: Just tell the truth."
New matters, meanwhile, are coming in. Bernstein Litowitz was appointed lead plaintiffs' counsel in a lawsuit against JPMorgan Chase related to the bank's multibillion-dollar trading loss out of a unit in London. And it is involved in the litigation against Facebook and Morgan Stanley over the social networking company's botched initial public offering of stock.
Mr. Berger said finding cases had rarely been a problem.
"I can't predict the next scandal," Mr. Berger said. "But I know that fraud is a growth industry, and so is greed."

        
In JPMorgan Suit, a Lack of New News
        
Bonds Backed by Mortgages Regain Allure

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); SCANDALS (77%); ACCOUNTING (72%); EXTORTION (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (66%); SUBPRIME LENDING (66%); INDICTMENTS (65%) Bank of America Corporation; Banking and Financial Institutions; Berger, Max W; Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossman LLP; Securities and Commodities Violations; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Suits and Litigation; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); PAUL WEISS RIFKIND WHARTON & GARRISON LLP (84%); BERNSTEIN LITOWITZ BERGER & GROSSMANN LLP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation; Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossman LLP

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: Berger, Max W

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



335 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: In California, Growing Diversity First Made Its Mark

BYLINE: MICAH COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: The Democratic share of the California vote has climbed in every presidential election since 1992, when the state swung from red to blue. 

 BODY:
 We continue our Presidential Geography series, a one-by-one examination of each state's political landscape and how it's changing. Here is a look at California, the Golden State. FiveThirtyEight spoke with Larry Gerston, a political science professor at San Jose State University; Thad Kousser, an associate professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego; and Bruce Cain, a profesor of political science at Stanford University. 
President Obama was in California on Monday, but not to campaign. The Golden State is safely Democratic, and Mr. Obama's trip was packed with high-dollar fund-raisers. But the fact that California isn't a battleground state doesn't mean it isn't of electoral importance. 
With more than 37 million residents, California's population is about 66 times that of Wyoming, which has the smallest population of any state in the union. Roughly one in eight Americans live in California, and the state has a proportional impact on presidential politics.
From 1968 to 1988, California was the linchpin in the Republican "lock" on the White House. Republicans held the presidency for 16 of those 20 years, and more California Republicans occupied the oval office (Ronald Reagan and Richard Nixon) than Democrats from any state. California clearly wasn't the sole reason for the G.O.P.'s success, but it was a big part of it.
With California having 55 electoral voters, 17 more than second-place Texas, its transformation from a red to blue state in 1992 upended the electoral math. Beginning in 1992, Democrats have won three of five presidential elections, they haven't lost the electoral college by more than 35 votes, and they have lost the national popular vote just once.
The political landscape in California used to be divided between north and south. The north was Democratic-leaning, and Southern California was Republican-leaning, largely because the defense industry was a major economic engine there, Mr. Kousser said. At one point California accounted for almost a quarter of the nation's defense industry, Mr. Gerston said, and Republicans were seen as better friends of the Pentagon budget.
Then the Cold War ended. In the early 1990s, defense spending began to fall, and numerous military bases in California were closed. This helped spark an out-migration of mostly white, affluent and Republican-leaning residents, including many former defense-industry workers. 
While the out-migration of Republican-leaning voters helped push California to the left, the influx into California of Hispanics and Asians had an even larger effect. Between 1980 and 2000, California's Hispanic and Asian communities each doubled as a share of the state's population: Hispanics from 16 to 32 percent, and Asians from 5 to 11 percent. California became a majority minority state after the 2000 census, and today non-Hispanic whites are less than 40 percent of the state's population (although they still constitute the majority of voters).
While California was growing more diverse, its main economic drivers were changing. Although agriculture remains a major industry, defense faded and Hollywood and Silicon Valley grew. California saw an influx of highly educated young professionals, Mr. Gerston said.
The demographic migrations have turned the state's political axis by 90 degrees. The Democratic share of the California vote has climbed in every presidential election since 1992 as every region in the state except the interior became more Democratic.
Now California's political divide is vertical. The coast, where most of the population is clustered, has a majority of liberal Democrats and a minority of moderate Republicans. Inland California has a majority of conservative Republicans and a minority of conservative Democrats.
If you're in California and can see the Pacific Ocean, you're almost sure to be surrounded by Democrats. The Bay Area and Los Angeles County, which is almost 50 percent Hispanic, provide millions of Democratic votes.
The Bay Area is especially left-leaning. San Francisco -- which is about a third Asian-American and a sixth Hispanic and has a large gay community -- is probably the most liberal part of the state and one of the most liberal parts of the country.
"You move into the Bay Area and basically you need a visa to get in there as a Republican," Mr. Cain said.
There are still a few parcels of Republican-leaning beachfront property, but these aren't as red as they used to be. South of Los Angeles and north of San Diego, affluent Orange County was historically a Republican stronghold. Over the last dozen years, however, the Hispanic population in Orange County has risen and Democrats have made inroads. Senator John McCain carried Orange County by only four percentage points in 2008.
San Diego, too, was reliably Republican, and it is still more right-leaning than California's other major cities partly because it has retained a substantial military presence.
Inland California is less densely populated and more conservative. Republicans along the coast tend to be fiscally conservative but socially moderate. The Inland Empire, the Central Valley, and Northern California (excluding the coast) are the most socially conservative parts of the state. They are less diverse, more evangelical and more agrarian. Many of these more rural communities are home to Reagan Democrats -- white, working-class and socially conservative voters who traditionally voted Democratic but now favor Republicans.
 The Bellwether: Santa Barbara County 
In the 2000 presidential election, Santa Barbara County, historically a bastion of wealthy, country-club Republicans, was several percentage points to the right of California over all. But in the last two elections, Santa Barbara County has been within one percentage point of the statewide vote, as the area's Hispanic population has risen, and Republicans have lost support over environmental policy. The state's Democrats and coastal Republicans tend to support green policies, and the G.O.P. lost some support with its "drill, baby, drill" strategy, Mr. Cain said, in Santa Barbara County specifically and California generally.
 The Bottom Line 
Mr. Obama is a 100 percent favorite to carry the state, according to the current FiveThirtyEight forecast. California is controlled top to bottom by Democrats. But despite its reputation as a liberal wonderland, California has a strong antitax streak (accompanied by a weaker antispending streak). With the state in severe fiscal trouble and a two-thirds legislative majority required for any tax increase, Democratic California has instituted large spending cuts.
With Democrats in control and the state struggling so badly -- the state's unemployment rate remains above 10 percent -- one might expect California Republicans to be making a comeback. But the opposite is true: the state's G.O.P. appears stuck in a downward spiral.
And it is in this regard where California might again provide a glimpse of the future: the challenge for California Republicans, to win over the growing numbers of minority voters, is the same challenge the party faces nationally.
The G.O.P. does have some openings. "Latinos are conservative when it comes to abortion," Mr. Kousser said. And California Republicans have had some success in recruiting Hispanic candidates, Mr. Cain said.
But, Mr. Cain added, "Republicans really have to come to grips with the growth of Latino voters."

        
What Obama's Immigration Decision Might Mean for 2012
        
In Senate Races, Politics Are Local Again
        
New York: Not as Blue as It Could Be
        
Do Democrats Have a Shot at the House?
        
Democrats' Odds of Retaining Senate Improve

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); POPULATION SIZE (88%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (85%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); COLD WAR (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); CENSUS (70%) 2012; California; Democrats; Hispanics; presidential geography; Republicans; Hispanic-Americans; Minorities; Presidential Election of 2012; Voting and Voters; Republican Party; Politics; Presidential Geography

ORGANIZATION: SAN JOSE STATE UNIVERSITY (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%) Republican Party

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) California

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



336 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Amid Volatile Polling, Keep an Eye on Election Fundamentals

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: The exact math is probably not as important as the broader conclusion: that the economy is line with President Obama being a very modest favorite. 

 BODY:
After a summer in which the polling in the presidential race was exceptionally stable - withPresident Obama generally holding a lead of about two percentage points in national surveys - the numbers since the party conventions have been a wild ride.
Mr. Obama got a bounce coming out of Charlotte, and it had some staying power - with his national lead appearing to peak at about five or six percentage points. But polling released immediately after the debate seemed to suggest that Mr. Romney had drawn into a rough national tie.
By the weekend, however - after the release of a favorable jobs report last Friday - Mr. Romney's bounce seemed to be receding some. Tracking polls released on Monday by Gallup and Rasmussen Reports actually showed a shift back toward Mr. Obama, although another poll by Pew Research showed Mr. Romney with a four-point lead among likely voters.
Polling data is often very noisy, and not all polls use equally rigorous methodology. But the polls, as a whole, remain consistent with the idea that they may end up settling where they were before the conventions, with Mr. Obama ahead by about two points. Such an outcome would be in line with what history and the fundamentals of the economy would lead you to expect.
Because economic data can be as noisy as the polls, the FiveThirtyEight forecast model uses seven different economic statistics to calibrate its predictions. Some of these make a more favorable case for Mr. Obama than others. The stock market has shown very strong growth over the course of his term, especially in the past six months. Inflation has been low, although gas prices have sometimes been an exception. And the manufacturing sector of the economy has been reasonably sound.
G.D.P. growth, however, has been sluggish - and growth in take-home income has been worse, barely keeping up with population growth. Although consumer spending on some products like cars is up, a broader-based measure called personal consumption expenditures shows that Americans aren't spending all that much.
The one measure that has been closest to the consensus of the data, however, is jobs growth, as measured by the increase in nonfarm payrolls. (This should be distinguished from the unemployment rate, which is calculated through a separate survey and which is subject to a higher degree of statistical error.)
The economy has added an average of 146,000 jobs per month so far this year, according to the government's latest figures. That is slightly higher than the average gain in past election years. Since 1956, monthly job growth has averaged 135,000 in January through September.
However, because the population and the labor force are now larger than they once were, the economy needs to add more jobs to keep pace with it. As measured on a percentage basis, jobs have grown by 1.0 percentage points since December, slightly below the election-year average of 1.4 percent.
There are four election years - 1956, 1960, 2000 and 2004 - when jobs growth was broadly similar to the trend this year. The 1956 election serves as a reminder that the economy isn't everything:Dwight D. Eisenhower won in a landslide. But the 1960 and 2000 elections were virtual ties, whileGeorge W. Bush won by 2.5 percentage points in 2004.
A more systematic way to analyze the data is to chart the rate of jobs growth against the margin of victory or defeat for the incumbent party. If past trends hold, that analysis predicts a very narrow victory for Mr. Obama - by 2.1 percentage points over Mr. Romney, similar to Mr. Bush's margin of victory in 2004.
But the exact math is probably not as important as the broader conclusion: that the economy is line with Mr. Obama being a very modest favorite.
Had Mr. Obama been on track to win by five or six percentage points, then we could say that Mr. Romney was underperforming the fundamentals.
In Denver, however, Mr. Romney presented himself as an acceptable and competent alternative. Challengers also generally profit from the first debate: in 8 of the 10 election cycles since 1976, the polls moved against the incumbent, and a net gain of two or three percentage points for the challenger is a reasonably typical figure.
At the same time, incumbent presidents just aren't that easy to defeat. Mr. Obama's approval ratings are now hovering around 50 percent and don't seem to have been negatively affected by his performance in Denver. Although Mr. Obama's approval ratings may be slightly lower among those most likely to vote - meaning that Mr. Romney could win with a strong turnout - historically that number has been just good enough to re-elect an incumbent. (Mr. Bush's approval ratings were in the same range late in 2004.)
In some ways, then, the election might not be quite so unpredictable as it appears. There was reason to believe that Mr. Obama's numbers would fade some after his convention - and the first debate has quite often been a time when the challenger drew the race closer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); CONSUMER SPENDING (87%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (70%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012; Polling

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



337 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1588 words

HEADLINE: Vote Lincoln in 2012

BYLINE: ADAM GOODHEART and PETER MANSEAU


HIGHLIGHT: How did the 16th president become the third man in this year's presidential campaign? 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney may have upstaged President Obama in last week's presidential debate, but it was Abraham Lincoln who stole the show at the last minute. An extended promotional trailer for Steven Spielberg's forthcoming "Lincoln" biopic aired on several major television networks - including ABC, CBS and CNN - immediately after the final fadeout in Denver. Its soundtrack of soaring strings and crashing percussion, and its images of Union soldiers dying in agony and jubilant African-Americans rejoicing in freedom, certainly made presidential politics appear more thrilling than it might have seemed during the candidates' umpteenth round of bickering over budgetary policy.
Nor was this Lincoln's only appearance last Wednesday. Up against the ropes in the 73rd minute of his bout against Mr. Romney, Mr. Obama turned for support to a man any 21st century candidate would like to have in his corner. "As Abraham Lincoln understood, there are also some things we do better together," the president said: 
So, in the middle of the Civil War, Abraham Lincoln said, let's help to finance the transcontinental railroad, let's start the National Academy of Sciences, let's start land grant colleges, because we want to give these gateways of opportunity for all Americans, because if all Americans are getting opportunity, we're all going to be better off. That doesn't restrict people's freedom. That enhances it. And so what I've tried to do as president is to apply those same principles.
If this argument failed to land a rhetorical punch against his opponent, it could be because Mr. Obama has paraphrased Lincoln in a similar way many, many times before, including in his State of the Union address earlier this year. It could also be because he was not the only one on stage who likes to think that Lincoln has his back.
The 16th president has been evoked so often by both sides that the current presidential race might be seen as the latest round of an ongoing custody battle over a certain young lawyer from Illinois. Although Mr. Romney himself has made only rare public references to his party's first and most celebrated president, his supporters have not been so reticent: at the Republican National Convention in Tampa, delegates waved Lincoln fans and donned stovepipe hats.
Indeed, there often seem to be multiple Lincolns in the political arena - not least because, setting aside his actual affiliation, he can be made to sound like the founding father of either party. Democratic Lincoln is the president of civil rights (freeing the slaves), federal power over state autonomy (saving the Union), government stimulus packages (those land grant colleges and railroads), and working-class pride (born in a log cabin). Republican Lincoln is the president of economic liberalism (freeing the slaves), strong military leadership (saving the Union)American global preeminence (think Gettysburg Address) and an up-by-the-bootstraps success story (born in a log cabin).
For Mr. Obama, the connection has often seemed less a matter of policy or ideology than a sense of spiritual kinship with a man whom he referred to in a July campaign appearance as "my homeboy from Illinois." In February 2007, he kicked off his first campaign for the presidency in Springfield, Ill., with a speech suggesting that like Lincoln's candidacy, his own would represent the groundswell of a new, activist American populism "gathered from the four winds." In his convention address accepting this year's Democratic nomination, he struck a far more modest tone: "While I'm proud of what we've achieved together, I'm far more mindful of my own failings, knowing exactly what Lincoln meant when he said, 'I have been driven to my knees many times by the overwhelming conviction that I had no place else to go.' "
Mr. Romney's campaign, too, has used the language of Lincoln to connect his presidential aspirations to something larger and nobler. The foreign policy section of its website quotes Lincoln's 1862 message to Congress: "The best ally world peace has ever known is a strong America. 'The last best hope of earth' was what Abraham Lincoln called our country. Mitt Romney believes in fulfilling the promise of Lincoln's words and will defend America abroad in word and in deed."
"We all know the president really cares about Lincoln," said Harold Holzer, a prolific Lincoln scholar and former political speechwriter. "In my view, Governor Romney is answering him back in much the same way that he's doing with Medicare and taxes: he's not going to let the president take any high ground without also claiming it for himself."
The Republican National Committee's platform namechecks Lincoln twice - once in the context of the treatment of veterans and again in its statement against human trafficking. Laying claim to Lincoln in this way is not mere posturing. It is, instead, something of a rescue operation, an attempt to bring Lincoln back into the Republican fold after his wayward years as an avatar of the political left. A report released earlier this year by the conservative Heritage Foundation went so far as to declare Lincoln a "hostage" of progressives, with the Gettysburg College historian Allen C. Guelzo indignantly refuting the notion of Lincoln as "the father of big government."
The Lincoln offered by the Romney campaign is, by contrast, a mascot for laissez-faire capitalism. In the aftermath of the "47 percent" controversy last month, Peter Wehner, an advisor to the Romney campaign, wrote a blog post for MittRomney.com enlisting Lincoln in an attack against the Obama administration's alleged record of "economic stagnation, increasing dependency, and the expansion of the Nanny State." According to Mr. Wehner, Lincoln would have had none of this. As evidence, he quoted a Lincoln speech given in 1860:
I don't believe in law to prevent a man from getting rich; it would do more harm than good. So while we do not propose any war upon capital, we do wish to allow the humblest man an equal chance to get rich with everybody else ... when he may look forward and hope to be a hired laborer this year and the next, work for himself afterward, and finally hire men to work for him! That is the true system.
Much was left unsaid in Mr. Wehner's selective quotation. In the speech, delivered in New Haven, Conn., several months before the start of his presidential bid, Lincoln was trying to draw connections between his antislavery opinions and his support of the American labor movement. Workers at Massachusetts shoe factories had gone on strike to protest wage cuts, and Lincoln - in a section of the speech unlikely to be quoted by his fellow Republicans today - declared, "I am glad to see that a system of labor prevails in New England under which laborers CAN strike when they want to." And the ellipsis in Mr. Wehner's version leaves out Lincoln's statement, shockingly radical for its time, that "a black man is entitled" to partake in the American dream.
Selectivity aside, Mr. Wehner's quotation illustrates well the difference between the two Lincolns at large in 2012: While Mr. Obama's Lincoln fostered government programs because "some things we do better together," the Lincoln of the Romney campaign favors deregulation and the entrepreneurial spirit above all else. Mr. Obama's Lincoln is vaguely mystical: when he is not gathering the four winds to his cause, he is lost in contemplation. The Romney campaign's Lincoln is nearly the opposite, a man of independent action and little reflection who encourages the independent actions of others. Offering the community organizer's Lincoln and the corporate titan's Lincoln, each campaign has made a Lincoln in its candidate's image.
To be fair, it might be argued that this bifurcation dates back to the 1860s. When Lincoln ran for the presidency, his supporters portrayed him as a muscular, rail-splitting frontiersman. The other Lincoln, "Father Abraham," martyred savior of the Union, the Christ-figure of America's civil religion, only came later.
And if the 16th president gets cable wherever he is now, he may be watching both contenders appreciatively. "Lincoln was, above all else, a politician - and a very talented one," said Louis P. Masur, author of a new book on the political maneuvering behind the Emancipation Proclamation. "He enjoyed the game, and he knew how to evoke others' names and ideas when it could get him political mileage."
Despite this, the original Lincoln never took to the presidential campaign trail on his own behalf, not even when facing a tough re-election challenge in 1864 from the Democrats' nominee, Gen. George B. McClellan. Instead, observing the custom of the era, he stayed home, kept working and let his record speak for itself. In 2012, he seems to be making up for lost time.
 Historically Corrected, corrected: An earlier version of this column misstated the source of Lincoln's famous argument that a free America was "the last best hope on earth"; it comes from his annual message to Congress in 1862, not the Gettysburg Address. 
Historically Corrected is a project of students and faculty at Washington College's C.V. Starr Center for the Study of the American Experience, where Adam Goodheart is the director and Peter Manseau is a scholar in residence. Students of Washington College's Writing for Media seminar contributed research. To learn more about the Historically Corrected project, click here.

        
Cool Hand Barry
        
Debating Points
        
Knowns, Unknowns and Unknowables
        
Obama Without Romney
        
The A-Little-Bit-Less Undecided

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); DRAMA FILMS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (64%) Abraham Lincoln; Barack Obama; Louis P. Masur; Mitt Romney; presidential election of 1860; presidential election of 1864; presidential election of 2012; Guelzo, Allen C; Holzer, Harold; Lincoln, Abraham; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Presidential Election of 2012; Historically Corrected

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (72%) Guelzo, Allen C; Holzer, Harold; Lincoln, Abraham; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (77%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



338 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: Race and College Admissions, Facing a New Test by Justices

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Abigail Fisher is a slight young woman with strawberry blond hair, a smile that needs little prompting, a determined manner and a good academic record. She played soccer in high school, and she is an accomplished cellist.
But the university she had her heart set on, the one her father and sister had attended, rejected her. ''I was devastated,'' she said, in her first news interview since she was turned down by the University of Texas at Austin four years ago.
Ms. Fisher, 22, who is white and recently graduated from Louisiana State University, says that her race was held against her, and the Supreme Court is to hear her case on Wednesday, bringing new attention to the combustible issue of the constitutionality of racial preferences in admissions decisions by public universities.
''I'm hoping,'' she said, ''that they'll completely take race out of the issue in terms of admissions and that everyone will be able to get into any school that they want no matter what race they are but solely based on their merit and if they work hard for it.''
The university said Ms. Fisher would not have been admitted even if race had played no role in the process, and it questioned whether she has suffered the sort of injury that gives her standing to sue. But the university's larger defense is that it must be free to assemble a varied student body as part of its academic and societal mission. The Supreme Court endorsed that view by a 5-to-4 vote in 2003 in Grutter v. Bollinger.
University officials said that the school's affirmative action program was needed to build a student body diverse enough to include minority students with a broad range of backgrounds and for the campus to have a ''critical mass'' of minority students in most classrooms. Interaction among students in class and around campus, said Kedra Ishop, the university's director of admissions, helps students overcome biases and make contributions to a diverse society. ''The role of U.T. Austin,'' Dr. Ishop said, ''is to provide leadership to the state.''
The majority opinion in the Grutter case, written by Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, rejected the use of racial quotas in admissions decisions but said that race could be used as one factor among many, as part of a ''holistic review.'' Justice O'Connor retired in 2006, and her replacement by Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. may open the way for a ruling cutting back on such race-conscious admissions policies, or eliminating them.
Admissions officers at colleges and universities almost universally endorse the idea that students from diverse backgrounds learn from each other, overcome stereotypes, and in so doing prepare themselves for leadership positions in society. Many critics of affirmative action say that there is at best a weak correlation between race and having a range of views presented in the classroom.
Others say the Constitution does not permit the government to sort people by race, no matter how worthy its goal. ''While racial diversity on college campuses is beneficial, it cannot be attained by racial discrimination,'' said Edward Blum, an adviser to Ms. Fisher and a driving force behind the Fisher case.
The competing arguments are hard to test, but a recent visit to a freshman seminar at the University of Texas at Austin suggested that the intellectual life of undergraduates there is varied and vibrant.
The course was called Debates on Democracy in America, and the topic that day was ''The Known World,'' Edward P. Jones's novel about a black slave owner.
It was only the third week of class, but the 18 students, of all sorts of ethnicities and backgrounds, talked easily and earnestly about contemporary echoes of slavery. An Asian student mentioned cheap labor in China. A Hispanic one talked about the ways employers in the United States take advantage of illegal immigrants.
Other comments ran counter to possible stereotypes.
D'wahn Kelley, a black student, said he hesitated to condemn the slave owner in the novel too harshly.
''You're judged on what you know, not what you don't know,'' he said, referring to the limits of the character's moral imagination. ''If you wanted to be successful, you had a right to own slaves.''
In response, Ashley Vasquez, a Hispanic student, said the she rejected ''the whole idea that you have to learn right and wrong.''
''It's hard for me to think,'' she said, ''that you can go about your day thinking, 'Oh, I'm going to own a human being.' ''
Three-quarters of applicants from Texas are admitted under a program that guarantees admission to the top students in every high school in the state. (Almost everyone calls this the Top Ten program, though the percentage cutoff can vary. Ms. Fisher barely missed the cutoff.) The remaining Texas students and those from elsewhere are considered under standards that take account of academic achievement and other factors, including race and ethnicity.
The Top Ten program has produced substantial racial and ethnic diversity.
In the fall of last year, freshmen who enrolled under the program were 26 percent Hispanic and 6 percent black. Texas is 38 percent Hispanic and 12 percent black.
The practical question in Austin is what eliminating the additional race-conscious admissions program would mean for seminars like the one on democracy, for lecture classes and for interactions in cafeterias and dormitories.
The university said the Top Ten program was a blunt instrument and that classes in many subjects have few or no minority students. It adds that the diversity generated by the Top Ten program is ''mostly a product of the fact that Texas high schools remain highly segregated in regions of the state,'' which ''limits the diversity that can be achieved within racial groups.''
Among the kind of student excluded by the Top Ten program, the university said is ''the African-American or Hispanic child of successful professionals in Dallas who has strong SAT scores and has demonstrated leadership ability in extracurricular activities but falls in the second decile of his or her high school class (or attends an elite private school that does not rank).''
Ms. Fisher's lawyers called that ''a newly minted interest in elitism dressed up as 'intra-racial' diversity.'' They added that the university is making the unseemly pitch for ''its preferred kind of minorities'' at the expense of white students like Ms. Fisher with similar qualifications.
Talking in the hallway after the seminar, Joao Eloy, who was admitted outside the Top Ten program, said he had mixed feelings about the university's approach. ''My only concern is if diversity becomes a priority above merit,'' he said, adding that he was wary of any system that ''punishes Asians and poor whites, to name a few.''
But Mr. Eloy, who said his heritage was Brazilian (making him Latino but not Hispanic, he said), said classrooms were enriched by a mix of voices. ''The different perspectives help a lot,'' he said. ''It makes it really interesting.''
Nosa Aimuyo, whose parents are Nigerian immigrants and who was also admitted outside the Top Ten program, said race-conscious admissions were needed to address ''disparities in opportunity between high schools, which disproportionately affect minorities.''
In an interview in his office in Austin, William C. Powers Jr, the university's president, said the attributes that the university seeks have many dimensions. ''We want diversity in terms of economic background, first generation, geography, inner city, suburban middle class,'' he said.
Asked what he would say to Ms. Fisher, whose own background is middle class, about her disappointment at being rejected, Mr. Powers paused for a moment.
''We look at everyone's holistic characteristics,'' he said.
Last month, Ms. Fisher spent a morning chatting with a reporter at a private club in Washington and then took an impromptu tour of the Supreme Court, where the grandeur of the surroundings seemed to bring home to her the gravity of the question she had presented to the justices.
She is working in Austin, where she had wanted to be in the first place, as a financial analyst. She said her college years at Louisiana State had been fine and that she had enjoyed the camaraderie of the bowling team.
But she added that she had lost a benefit that her state's government had decided to distribute on a basis other than merit.
''The only thing I missed out on was my post-graduation years,'' she said. ''Just being in a network of U.T. graduates would have been a really nice thing to be in. And I probably would have gotten a better job offer had I gone to U.T.'' She said she was trying to come to terms with her role in a case that could reshape American higher education. Asked if she found it interesting or exciting or scary, she said, ''All of the above.''
But she did not hesitate to say how she would run an admission system. ''I don't think,'' she said, ''that we even need to have a race box on the application.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Abigail Fisher (A1)
Abigail Fisher, 22, at the Supreme Court last month. ''I probably would have gotten a better job offer had I gone to U.T.,'' said Ms. Fisher, who said she was not admitted because of her race. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 D'wahn Kelley, center, in a class on democracy at the University of Texas at Austin last month. The school has said that it must be free to assemble a varied student body as part of its mission. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN SKLAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (89%); RACE & RACISM (88%); INTERVIEWS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (72%); SOCCER (72%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (72%); STANDING TO SUE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (83%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ALITO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (88%) TEXAS, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



339 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Lowers Its Forecast for Global Growth

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The International Monetary Fund is cutting its global economic forecasts yet again, calling the risks of a slowdown ''alarmingly high,'' primarily because of policy uncertainty in the United States and Europe.
It foresees global growth of 3.3 percent in 2012 and 3.6 percent in 2013, down from 3.5 percent this year and 3.9 percent next year when it made its last report in July. New estimates suggest a 15 percent chance of recession in the United States next year, 25 percent in Japan and above 80 percent in the euro area.
Financial market stress, government spending cuts, stubbornly high unemployment and political uncertainty continue to dampen growth in high-income countries, the fund said. At the same time, the emerging-market countries that fueled much of the recovery from the global recession, like China and India, have continued to cool off, with global trade slowing.
''The recovery has suffered new setbacks, and uncertainty weighs heavily on the outlook,'' the fund said, warning that its forecasts might be overly optimistic if policy makers in Europe and the United States fail to carry out pro-growth policies. ''Downside risks have increased and are considerable.''
The fund, which is based in Washington, will officially issue its report Tuesday at the start of a major meeting with the World Bank in Tokyo. The forecasts are part of the fund's World Economic Outlook report, released four times a year.
The latest report focused on the higher-income countries whose political and economic troubles are posing significant risks to the rest of the world. The fund estimated that these advanced economies, including the United States and Germany, would grow about 1.3 percent this year, down from 3 percent in 2010.
The fund does not expect growth to pick up much next year, either, forecasting growth of just 1.5 percent, in those countries.
''Low growth and uncertainty in advanced economies are affecting emerging market and developing economies through both trade and financial channels, adding to homegrown weaknesses,'' Olivier Blanchard, the fund's chief economist, said.
The fund has praised central banks for doing more to support the recovery in recent months. The European Central Bank, the United States Federal Reserve and the Bank of Japan have all enacted new policies to help economic growth and fight financial distress. That has helped to quiet the markets in Europe and bolster them elsewhere.
Still, political uncertainty and high unemployment have held the recovery back, the fund said. For Europe, the hard work of building a mechanism to aid countries having trouble accessing financing on the debt markets at reasonable rates and enacting new cross-Continent policies remains, the fund cautioned.
''The European Central Bank has recently done its part,'' the fund said. ''It is now up to national policy makers to move and activate the European Stability Mechanism, while articulating a credible path and beginning to implement measures to achieve a banking union and greater fiscal integration.''
The fund has also had stern words for the United States. After the presidential and Congressional elections next month, policy makers will have just weeks to avoid the ''fiscal cliff,'' a combination of tax increases and mandatory federal spending cuts that could throw the country back into recession -- and drag down global growth with it.
''It's not a threat just for the United States of America, it's a threat for the global economy,'' Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the fund, said last month in a speech at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.
''We all hope that despite political calendars, which anywhere in the world entail a degree of uncertainty and unpredictability, there will soon be enough political clarity and no political games in order to actually focus on removing this uncertainty,'' she said.
In the economic forecast report, the fund also cut its growth estimates for emerging economies, whose strength has helped pull the world out of the global recession. It now foresees growth of 5.3 percent this year and 5.6 percent next year, down from its July estimates.
The fund knocked a full percentage point off its 2012 growth estimate for Brazil, and 1.3 percentage points off its growth estimate for India.
Earlier this month, the World Bank released a major development report focusing on the importance of employment to growth and stability -- a concern given high rates of youth unemployment around the world after the recession.
The report found that more than half a billion young people are neither working nor studying, and estimated that the world would need to create about 600 million new jobs in the next 15 years just to keep the unemployment rate constant.
''Governments need to move jobs to center stage to promote prosperity and fight poverty,'' Jim Yong Kim, the World Bank president, said.''Jobs equal hope. Jobs equal peace. Jobs can make fragile countries become stable.''
Expectations for progress are low heading into the I.M.F. and World Bank meetings. The major political transitions in China, the United States and other countries have put issues like quota reform on the back burner.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Greek finance minister, Yannis Stournaras, and Christine Lagarde, the I.M.F. managing director, on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN THYS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (75%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (64%); BANK OF JAPAN (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%); GREECE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



340 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Georgia Law Requiring Proof of Legal Residency Creates Licensing Backlog

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON; Robbie Brown contributed reporting.

 BODY:
ATLANTA -- For nurses, hair stylists, kickboxing instructors and even geologists, Georgia's desire to clamp down on illegal immigration is having an unintended side effect.
Things are so jammed at the secretary of state's office that renewing a state license for some of the 200 professions that require one is taking weeks instead of days. For some brand-new nurses, the wait for a license can stretch into three months.
The reason is a new law that went into effect at the beginning of the year. It requires people seeking professional licenses to prove they are in the United States legally.
That means people who used to renew online must now find and send in what the state deems a secure and verifiable document: a copy of a driver's license, a passport, a green card or other government-issued ID.
''The fact of the matter is that in our agency we've taken a streamlined process we've had in place and made it more bureaucratic,'' said Brian Kemp, the secretary of state.
Even a call to ask about how to get a license or why things are taking so long has become a problem. State licensing workers can answer only about three-quarters of the nearly 459,000 calls that come into the call center in a year because the new requirements are bringing more questions and arrived during a period of recession-driven staff cuts, Mr. Kemp said.
The licensing division has shrunk to 87 employees, down 30 percent since 2008. Mr. Kemp, who has to cut his budget by 3 percent this year, will not reduce staffing at the division any further. The workload is too heavy, plus the division brings in $24 million a year. Instead, he is laying off staff at the state archives and eliminating public hours there.
One would think that simply checking a piece of identification would not gum up the works, but the state licenses 475,000 people over all. Although not all of them renew at the same time, the new step requires hand-checking each application for the correct documents. Before, much of the process was automated.
And despite efforts by the state's professional boards to educate people about the new requirements, more than 8,300 applications have arrived without proof of citizenship or legal residency so far this year. Each of those applicants had to be contacted and asked to provide the correct documents.
Certainly, many professionals seeking a state license have simply absorbed the extra step with the resignation of a traveler in an airport security line.
"It was just a little more paperwork," said Jeff Hopp, the president of the Georgia Athletic Trainers' Association.
But the backlogs can be frustrating, especially since a process that used to take a few keyboard strokes and 2 days can now take more than 10.
''Unfortunately, government makes these laws and regulations at the legislative levels, but they don't make the adjustments at the do-it level,'' said Henry Williams Jr., a licensed hearing aid dispenser in Gainesville, Ga., who recently retired from the state board that oversees the hearing aid business.
In neighboring Alabama, where many parts of a similar immigration bill were delayed until a federal court heard challenges to it in August, untangling the mess over state licenses is just beginning.
While legal challenges remain, the court allowed Alabama to implement a portion of the bill designed to keep illegal immigrants from getting state licenses. But how the state commissions in charge of regulating architects, therapists and other licensed professionals will comply is still a work in progress.
In Alabama, the secretary of state does not oversee professional boards and commissions, which are independent but operate with legislative approval. The state's Department of Examiners of Public Accounts, an independent legislative audit agency, is trying to offer guidance, said John Norris, a director of the agency. ''It will create extra work,'' he said. ''We're just not sure how much yet because these agencies have not had a chance to fully comply.''
One option is to get the federal government to allow Alabama to use a federal database called SAVE, or Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements. The state has asked, but the federal government has yet to answer.
Meanwhile in Georgia, Mr. Kemp said he will ask the legislature next year to change the bill so that only first-time applicants will need to prove their status.
And even though veteran nurses have been grumbling about the added paperwork, new nurses and other professionals are used to waiting.
''My perception is we have never been the quickest state,'' said Linda Streit, dean of the Georgia Baptist College of Nursing at Mercer University. ''And with all this from immigration, we continue to not be the quickest state.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The office of Brian Kemp, the Georgia secretary of state, issues professional licenses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LICENSES & PERMITS (91%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); NURSES & NURSING (90%); LAYOFFS (86%); IMMIGRATION (78%); MARTIAL ARTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); DRIVERS LICENSES (72%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (70%); CITIZENSHIP (70%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (69%); BUDGETS (69%); AIRPORTS (68%); BUDGET CUTS (67%); CALL CENTERS (66%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); AVIATION SECURITY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (91%) GEORGIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



341 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Grand Plan for a Toxic Site Is Scorned and Celebrated

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
Look upon them as among the first palazzos on a not-so-grand canal, two proposed buildings that rival the scale of almost any residence in Venice and harbor a total of 700 rental apartments. They represent an emphatic confirmation of what local artists and other urban pioneers have increasingly feared -- that real estate operators would officially anoint the once-scorned Gowanus Canal and its gritty jigsaw patch of Brooklyn as ''up and coming.''
But the plan to erect the buildings by the Lightstone Group, one of the nation's largest real estate firms, has divided the neighborhood, which now proudly calls itself Gowanus.
Some residents are trying to block or reduce the scale of the proposed buildings, arguing that the new tenants would overwhelm schools and subways, and that the buildings themselves -- 12 stories in spots -- would perniciously transform the low-rise mingling of factories and row houses they have come to love. Others, however, argue that the Lightstone development would create a constituency to lobby for continuing the cleanup of the sometimes inky, sometimes lizard-green waters of the 1.8-mile polluted and pathogenic canal, which was declared a Superfund site in 2010.
Whatever the arguments, the new plans, as well as a proposal for a 770-apartment project on a severely polluted lot not too far away, make clear that after years of both buoyant and downbeat talk about Gowanus as the next frontier in Brooklyn's revival, the neighborhood's moment is here.
''This is the tipping point for Gowanus,'' said Jerome Krase, a professor emeritus of sociology at Brooklyn College and a former president of the Gowanus Canal Community Development Corporation, a neighborhood group. ''What's going to be interesting is to see whether it's going to contribute to a kind of middle- and upper-middle-income neighborhood in between gentrified Carroll Gardens and highly gentrified Park Slope. What's unusual about this project is it's being done in the middle of the wasteland.''
Nevertheless, those who live and work there -- many of the old industrial buildings are filled with artists' studios -- worry that they are seeing the neighborhood they took a chance on become a dreaded ''destination'' that, like SoHo and Dumbo, will forever homogenize its quirky and rough-edged character.
''The project will bring in people, but it will eliminate people -- people making pottery, stained glass, woodworkers,'' said Linda Mariano, who has lived in a brick row house in Gowanus with her husband since 1974.
The proposed developments coincide with the federal designation of the canal as a Superfund site and the Environmental Protection Agency's plan to dredge the toxic canal bottom and cap it with clay, sand and rocks, work that could take until the end of the decade or beyond. While that cleanup, some major sewage work by the city and the pumping of clean water into the canal will eventually improve the water quality, a lingering question is whether prospective tenants would want to move into buildings that might overlook the work area and overhear the roar and clatter of dredging machinery.
But the Lightstone Group is treating the canal, still known for its foul odor, as an enticement. ''People are always attracted to waterfront locations, and this will be a spectacular project,'' said Kasra Sanandaji, Lightstone's senior vice president for investments. He also said the ''up-and-coming Gowanus neighborhood'' has ''one of Brooklyn's most vibrant artistic communities and cultural scenes.''
The Lightstone Group's plan is not all that new. It is a reworking of a plan by another developer, Toll Brothers, for a complex of 447 larger apartments, most of which would have been luxury condos. The apartments in the new plan, by contrast, would be smaller rental units -- renters would have less of a financial gamble living near a Superfund site -- and 140 of those would be reserved for families and individuals of modest incomes.
Before it abandoned the plan for financial reasons related to the Superfund designation, Toll Brothers received a zoning amendment in 2009 for residential construction in a manufacturing zone. Lightstone has applied to the New York City Planning Commission for ''minor modifications'' to the original permits, a request that does not require the usual extensive environmental and land-use reviews.
The Community Board 6 land-use committee has recommended that the Lightstone project be blocked until another environmental impact review is conducted, though the full board will hold a hearing on the project on Wednesday and is likely to vote on an advisory recommendation. The final decision belongs to the Planning Commission.
The Lightstone Group has dangled some incentives. It promised to build a 530-foot-long esplanade along the canal for public use, steel bankside bulkheads to prevent toxic substances from passing between the soil and the canal water, and storm-water systems to minimize runoff into the canal. It has also promised to build a boathouse for a group that canoes on the canal, the Gowanus Dredgers.
But critics of the project argue that the developers should wait until the contamination is remedied and sewer and other infrastructure improvements are completed. Some have pushed to focus on renovating underused warehouses and factories that already exist.
''The infrastructure is not there,'' said Marlene Donnelly, a designer who has lived in the neighborhood for two decades. ''My biggest concern is that the project will add 700 apartments with toilets going into the canal. They're inundating a system that's overtaxed.''
Shrugging off critics' concerns, Ethan Geto, a spokesman for Lightstone, said that there were still hundreds of empty seats in area schools, and that the new development would add only three passengers per subway car at rush hour.
''By the time the project is ready to rent,'' Mr. Geto said, ''the canal will be a lot cleaner.''
Eymund Diegel, an environmental planner and longtime resident, supports more residential development. He points out that the skyrocketing rents show that the neighborhood is already luring more newcomers, and 700 new residents whose windows overlook the canal would pressure government officials to clean it up with dispatch.
''More neighbors would create a vested interest in the canal,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marlene Donnelly, left, and Linda Mariano oppose the plan, but Eymund Diegel, a fellow neighborhood resident, favors it. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Two buildings containing 700 apartments, below right in a rendering, have been proposed along the Gowanus Canal in Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 THE LIGHTSTONE GROUP) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); SUPERFUND (87%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); LOBBYING (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (71%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



342 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: World Bank Predicts Asian Recovery in 2013

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- The developing economies of East Asia will grow less rapidly this year than previously expected, the World Bank said on Monday, but domestic demand and economic stimulus measures will allow growth to accelerate again next year.
The euro zone crisis and a looming ''fiscal cliff'' in the United States continue to pose ''considerable risks'' to the global outlook, but in East Asia and the Pacific -- a region that includes countries such as China, Thailand and Indonesia but not Japan and India -- robust domestic demand is helping growth remain well above that in other parts of the world, the bank said in its latest report on the region.
The World Bank cut its forecast for the region to 7.2 percent this year, from a previous projection, made in May, of 7.6 percent. The number is also sharply lower than the 8.2 percent expansion the region managed in 2011.
The bank also lowered its forecast for 2013 to 7.6 percent from the 8.0 percent it had projected in May.
The reduced forecasts are the latest in a string of such cuts by economists around the world as they assess the impact of slowing demand for Asian goods in the West's struggling economies.
Last week, the Asian Development Bank said it expected emerging Asia -- a wider grouping of countries than those included in the World Bank's report on Monday -- to expand just 6.1 percent this year, and 6.7 percent in 2013.
Still, resilient domestic demand looks likely to compensate for the drop-off in external demand, and combined with stimulus measures announced by governments across the region, should lead to slightly faster growth again next year, the World Bank said.
''Weaker demand for East Asia's exports is slowing the regional economy,'' Pamela Cox, World Bank east Asia and Pacific regional vice president, said in a statement Monday. ''But compared to other parts of the world, it's still growing strongly, and thriving domestic demand will enable the region's economy to bounce back to 7.6 percent next year.''
Most major central banks in Asia have sought to prop up growth by lowering interest rates; some, including the Chinese central bank, have also lowered the reserves that banks need to hold against deposits, which frees up more cash for them to lend.
For China, the World Bank now expects growth of 7.7 percent -- a downward revision from its previous forecast of 8.2 percent, and a sharp slowdown from the 9.3 percent expansion recorded last year.
Gross domestic product data for the third quarter of this year, due out on Oct. 18, are expected to further underline China's slowdown; economists polled by Reuters expect the economy to have expanded just 7.4 percent compared with the same period last year. The second-quarter figure was 7.6 percent.
The World Bank noted Monday that ambitious investment plans announced by some local governments could face funding constraints, ''not least because governments are feeling the pinch of a cooling real estate market, which lowers land sales revenues.''
Moreover, it said, Chinese policy makers are having to balance support for growth with concerns of a rebound in housing prices -- a balancing act that is reducing their ability to take more forceful stimulus steps.
On a more positive note, the World Bank said that recent economic data for China ''suggest some rebound in activity,'' while recent efforts to step up investment project approvals could support the recovery in investment in the coming quarters.
''We therefore believe that the risk of a 'hard landing' remains small,'' the World Bank said. The bank expects growth in China to pick up to 8.1 percent next year, as the impact of stimulus measures kicks in and global trade rallies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EURO ZONE (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (57%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (67%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%)

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (96%); EASTERN ASIA (94%); CHINA (93%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



343 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Iran Places New Curbs On Trading Of Currency

BYLINE: By THOMAS ERDBRINK; Ramtin Rastin contributed reporting from Tehran, and Rick Gladstone from New York.

 BODY:
TEHRAN -- Iranian police officers moved to arrest unlicensed currency dealers and increase patrols in the center of the capital on Monday to prevent unofficial trading from disrupting new government-imposed rates of exchange for the national currency, the rial.
Over the past days, Iran's leaders have sought to stabilize the value of their currency after a market panic last week when the rial fell by about 40 percent against the United States dollar and other foreign currencies.
Now, only those traders licensed by Iran's Central Bank may buy and sell the rial for foreign currency, and at rates that value the rial at 25,500 to the dollar -- substantially more than last week, when it took as many as 37,500 rials to buy one dollar.
But the new restriction on unofficial trading also had an adverse effect, causing lines of customers who wanted to sell their rials at the better rate in anticipation that it would eventually weaken again. Several authorized money traders refused to sell foreign currency in large quantities, and some hired private security companies to regulate the flow of customers.
In another measure to help ensure that the state's foreign currency would be used only to buy the most important imports, a Parliament member said all luxury imports had been forbidden.
The politician, Gholamreza Mesbahi-Moghaddam, also said that Parliament had been preparing to discuss the suspension of the second phase of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's subsidy reform plan, Iran's English-language state television channel Press TV reported. The lawmaker stressed that people would continue to receive a monthly cash payment, which the government is due to deliver in a week.
The monthly payment -- about 450,000 rials a person to nearly 60 million people -- is viewed by some economists as a contributor to inflation by raising the number of rials in circulation.
Iranian leaders have called the currency crisis a plot by Iran's enemies to subvert the economy, which has faced acute problems that many economists in Iran and abroad attribute to government mismanagement and the effects of the sanctions imposed by the West over the disputed Iranian uranium enrichment program.
The sanctions, which have constricted Iran's ability to sell oil and conduct international financial transactions, have sharply increased the price of imports and contributed to the loss of confidence in the rial, which in turn has fueled inflation. Though the Central Bank of Iran has said the annual inflation rate is about 25 percent, by some outside measures it is much higher. Steve H. Hanke, an economics professor at Johns Hopkins University and a senior fellow at the Cato Institute, a conservative research group in Washington, said he calculated that the rate was now as high as 196 percent.
Members of Parliament have garnered enough votes to call Mr. Ahmadinejad in for questioning over the currency crisis, the semiofficial Fars news agency reported, but it was not clear when or if this would happen.
All shops that had closed in Tehran's grand bazaar, the scene of an angry demonstration against the falling currency on Wednesday by shopkeepers and passers-by, had reopened by Monday, but there were many fewer shoppers than normal. Many businessmen said they did not know what to charge for their products because of uncertainty over the foreign exchange rates.
''How can we sell enough to pay our debts?'' asked Saeed Jalilian, a garment seller. ''I have no customers. I will go broke.''
Still, in other Tehran shopping centers people could be seen having lunch and buying products, but most whispers of conversations were about the falling rial.
Experts agreed the government had to do something to stop the fall of the rial, but said they were worried that in the long term the downward pressure would be difficult to counteract.
''It is clear that these new rates are only sustainable if the Central Bank continues to feed foreign exchange into the market,'' said Mousa Ghaninejad, an economy professor at Tehran's Shahid Beheshti University. He said that lack of confidence in the rial, after inflation and sanctions, was not going away.
''My heart wishes for the fall of the rial to stop,'' Mr. Ghaninejad said, ''but economic rationale tells me otherwise.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (93%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); INFLATION (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); LUXURY GOODS (71%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (69%); IMPORT PRICES (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



344 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Ireland Plans Bold Measures To Lift Housing

BYLINE: By PETER EAVIS

 BODY:
DUBLIN - With its economy still reeling from the housing crash, Ireland is making a bold move to help tens of thousands of struggling homeowners.
The Irish government expects to pass a law this year that could encourage banks to substantially cut the amount that borrowers owe on their mortgages, a step that no major country has been willing to take on a broad scale.
The initiative, which would lower a borrower's monthly payment, could prevent a tide of foreclosures, an uncertainty that has been hanging over the Irish housing market for years. If it works, the plan could provide a road map for other troubled countries.
Without the proposed law, Laura Crowley, a nurse who lives in a village 30 miles west of Dublin, figures she will lose her home. In 2007, Ms. Crowley and her husband bought a small home for the equivalent of $420,000. But they can no longer afford the $1,400 monthly payment. Her husband, a construction worker, is earning far less and her take-home pay has been cut by the country's new austerity measures, which include new taxes. "This bill is the only light at the end of the tunnel for us," she said.
Most countries that have suffered housing busts, including the United States, have made limited use of so-called mortgage write-downs, the process of forgiving a portion of the principal on the loan. The worry has been that some borrowers who can afford their mortgages will stop making payments to take advantage of a bailout. Banks have also been reluctant since they could face unexpected losses.
Ireland is different from the United States and most countries. During the financial crisis, Ireland bailed out the banks, and the government still has large ownership stakes in some of the biggest mortgage lenders. So taxpayers are already responsible for mortgage losses. In other countries, the burden of principal forgiveness would largely fall on privately owned banks.
But the debate is the same: whether to push lenders to take losses now, in hopes that things will get better faster, or wait for the housing market to heal on its own, which could cloud the economy for years to come.
Countries suffering from a housing hangover will most likely be watching Ireland closely to see how the law works. Spain, swamped with mortgage defaults, introduced a measure in March that allows for debt forgiveness, though under strict conditions.
In many ways, Ireland has to try something audacious. House prices are still 50 percent below their peak, compared with 30 percent in the United States. And more than half of Irish mortgages are underwater, meaning the house is worth less than the outstanding debt. While some of those borrowers can afford to keep making payments, more than a quarter of mortgage debt on first homes, roughly $39 billion, is in default or has been modified by lenders.
The housing market is now in a state of limbo as the government and the banks have made little effort to clean up the mortgage mess.
Unlike in the United States, Irish banks have foreclosed on very few borrowers. While Ireland's leaders have considered it socially unacceptable for banks to seize large numbers of homes, they also feared the fiscal cost of foreclosures.
This approach creates doubt about the true level of bad mortgages at Irish banks. And borrowers, unsure of whether they will keep their homes, remain in a state of financial paralysis.
The new law aims to end this stalemate by overhauling Ireland's consumer debt and bankruptcy laws.
While banks aren't required to reduce the mortgage debt, the legislation gives them a powerful incentive to write down mortgages for troubled borrowers. Under the new rules, it will be less onerous to declare bankruptcy, making it easier for people to walk away from their homes altogether. As the threat rises, banks are more likely to reduce homeowners' debt, rather than risk losing the monthly income and getting stuck with the property.
"For the banks, where there are losses, they have to be recognized," said Alan Shatter, Ireland's justice minister, who has sponsored the new law, called the Personal Insolvency Bill. "This legislation gives homeowners hope for their future."
The legislation is intended, in part, to reach homeowners who are on the verge of running into trouble, as Geraldine Daly is.
A health care worker, Ms. Daly bought a home in 2009 in Belmayne, a new development in northern Dublin. Until last month, Ms. Daly said, she has been making her $1,200 payment. Then she fell behind after some unexpected expenses, including a car repair.
Ms. Daly estimates that her finances would become manageable if her monthly mortgage payments were cut to around $900. "Right now, I am a slave to this dog box."
Critics contend the law could have unintended consequences.
One fear is that banks won't have the money to absorb the potential losses on the mortgages. A big mystery is the level of defaults on so-called buy-to-let mortgages, loans that many Irish people took out to buy second homes to rent. In theory, the insolvency bill allows for write-offs on this type of mortgage, and analysts expect defaults on such loans to be higher than on first homes. Ireland's central bank is expected to release the data soon.
To qualify, borrowers will have to prove that they are in a precarious financial position and cannot afford to pay. Analysts are concerned that the bill may actually be too restrictive and homeowners will continue to default. "There are so many layers that borrowers have to go through to get a write-down," said Paul Joyce, senior policy researcher at Free Legal Advice Centers, a legal rights group that has supported moves to make Irish bankruptcy law more lenient. For instance, borrowers will most likely have to pay a big fee upfront to the person who handles their case.
John Chubb, a former construction worker who lives on a quiet cul-de-sac on the outskirts of Dublin, isn't too worried about the process right now. He just wants to save his home.
Since having an operation for colon cancer in 2004, Mr. Chubb has lived primarily on government disability payments, and the bank has allowed him to pay only mortgage interest. But the lender is in the process of deciding whether to foreclose.
"I am expecting the word any day now," he said. "I don't know if I will be out on the front path before the bill passes."
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Laura Crowley can no longer afford the $1,400 monthly payment on her home outside Dublin.
 Geraldine Daly fell behind on her mortgage after unexpected expenses, including a car repair. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER EAVIS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (90%) IRELAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



345 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1813 words

HEADLINE: Attention Disorder or Not, Pills to Help in School

BYLINE: By ALAN SCHWARZ

 BODY:
CANTON, Ga. -- When Dr. Michael Anderson hears about his low-income patients struggling in elementary school, he usually gives them a taste of some powerful medicine: Adderall.
The pills boost focus and impulse control in children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Although A.D.H.D is the diagnosis Dr. Anderson makes, he calls the disorder ''made up'' and ''an excuse'' to prescribe the pills to treat what he considers the children's true ill -- poor academic performance in inadequate schools.
''I don't have a whole lot of choice,'' said Dr. Anderson, a pediatrician for many poor families in Cherokee County, north of Atlanta. ''We've decided as a society that it's too expensive to modify the kid's environment. So we have to modify the kid.''
Dr. Anderson is one of the more outspoken proponents of an idea that is gaining interest among some physicians. They are prescribing stimulants to struggling students in schools starved of extra money -- not to treat A.D.H.D., necessarily, but to boost their academic performance.
It is not yet clear whether Dr. Anderson is representative of a widening trend. But some experts note that as wealthy students abuse stimulants to raise already-good grades in colleges and high schools, the medications are being used on low-income elementary school children with faltering grades and parents eager to see them succeed.
''We as a society have been unwilling to invest in very effective nonpharmaceutical interventions for these children and their families,'' said Dr. Ramesh Raghavan, a child mental-health services researcher at Washington University in St. Louis and an expert in prescription drug use among low-income children. ''We are effectively forcing local community psychiatrists to use the only tool at their disposal, which is psychotropic medications.''
Dr. Nancy Rappaport, a child psychiatrist in Cambridge, Mass., who works primarily with lower-income children and their schools, added: ''We are seeing this more and more. We are using a chemical straitjacket instead of doing things that are just as important to also do, sometimes more.''
Dr. Anderson's instinct, he said, is that of a ''social justice thinker'' who is ''evening the scales a little bit.'' He said that the children he sees with academic problems are essentially ''mismatched with their environment'' -- square pegs chafing the round holes of public education. Because their families can rarely afford behavior-based therapies like tutoring and family counseling, he said, medication becomes the most reliable and pragmatic way to redirect the student toward success.
''People who are getting A's and B's, I won't give it to them,'' he said. For some parents the pills provide great relief. Jacqueline Williams said she can't thank Dr. Anderson enough for diagnosing A.D.H.D. in her children -- Eric, 15; Chekiara, 14; and Shamya, 11 -- and prescribing Concerta, a long-acting stimulant, for them all. She said each was having trouble listening to instructions and concentrating on schoolwork.
''My kids don't want to take it, but I told them, 'These are your grades when you're taking it, this is when you don't,' and they understood,'' Ms. Williams said, noting that Medicaid covers almost every penny of her doctor and prescription costs.
Some experts see little harm in a responsible physician using A.D.H.D. medications to help a struggling student. Others -- even among the many like Dr. Rappaport who praise the use of stimulants as treatment for classic A.D.H.D. -- fear that doctors are exposing children to unwarranted physical and psychological risks. Reported side effects of the drugs have included growth suppression, increased blood pressure and, in rare cases, psychotic episodes.
The disorder, which is characterized by severe inattention and impulsivity, is an increasingly common psychiatric diagnosis among American youth: about 9.5 percent of Americans ages 4 to 17 were judged to have it in 2007, or about 5.4 million children, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
The reported prevalence of the disorder has risen steadily for more than a decade, with some doctors gratified by its widening recognition but others fearful that the diagnosis, and the drugs to treat it, are handed out too loosely and at the exclusion of nonpharmaceutical therapies.
The Drug Enforcement Administration classifies these medications as Schedule II Controlled Substances because they are particularly addictive. Long-term effects of extended use are not well understood, said many medical experts. Some of them worry that children can become dependent on the medication well into adulthood, long after any A.D.H.D. symptoms can dissipate.
According to guidelines published last year by the American Academy of Pediatrics, physicians should use one of several behavior rating scales, some of which feature dozens of categories, to make sure that a child not only fits criteria for A.D.H.D., but also has no related condition like dyslexia or oppositional defiant disorder, in which intense anger is directed toward authority figures. However, a 2010 study in the Journal of Attention Disorders suggested that at least 20 percent of doctors said they did not follow this protocol when making their A.D.H.D. diagnoses, with many of them following personal instinct.
On the Rocafort family's kitchen shelf in Ball Ground, Ga., next to the peanut butter and chicken broth, sits a wire basket brimming with bottles of the children's medications, prescribed by Dr. Anderson: Adderall for Alexis, 12; and Ethan, 9; Risperdal (an antipsychotic for mood stabilization) for Quintn and Perry, both 11; and Clonidine (a sleep aid to counteract the other medications) for all four, taken nightly.
Quintn began taking Adderall for A.D.H.D. about five years ago, when his disruptive school behavior led to calls home and in-school suspensions. He immediately settled down and became a more earnest, attentive student -- a little bit more like Perry, who also took Adderall for his A.D.H.D.
When puberty's chemical maelstrom began at about 10, though, Quintn got into fights at school because, he said, other children were insulting his mother. The problem was, they were not; Quintn was seeing people and hearing voices that were not there, a rare but recognized side effect of Adderall. After Quintn admitted to being suicidal, Dr. Anderson prescribed a week in a local psychiatric hospital, and a switch to Risperdal.
While telling this story, the Rocaforts called Quintn into the kitchen and asked him to describe why he was had been given Adderall.
''To help me focus on my school work, my homework, listening to Mom and Dad, and not doing what I used to do to my teachers, to make them mad,'' he said. He described the week in the hospital and the effects of Risperdal: ''If I don't take my medicine I'd be having attitudes. I'd be disrespecting my parents. I wouldn't be like this.''
Despite Quintn's experience with Adderall, the Rocaforts decided to use it with their 12-year-old daughter, Alexis, and 9-year-old son, Ethan. These children don't have A.D.H.D., their parents said. The Adderall is merely to help their grades, and because Alexis was, in her father's words, ''a little blah.''
''We've seen both sides of the spectrum: we've seen positive, we've seen negative,'' the father, Rocky Rocafort, said. Acknowledging that Alexis's use of Adderall is ''cosmetic,'' he added, ''If they're feeling positive, happy, socializing more, and it's helping them, why wouldn't you? Why not?''
Dr. William Graf, a pediatrician and child neurologist who serves many poor families in New Haven, said that a family should be able to choose for itself whether Adderall can benefit its non-A.D.H.D. child, and that a physician can ethically prescribe a trial as long as side effects are closely monitored. He expressed concern, however, that the rising use of stimulants in this manner can threaten what he called ''the authenticity of development.''
''These children are still in the developmental phase, and we still don't know how these drugs biologically affect the developing brain,'' he said. ''There's an obligation for parents, doctors and teachers to respect the authenticity issue, and I'm not sure that's always happening.''
Dr. Anderson said that every child he treats with A.D.H.D. medication has met qualifications. But he also railed against those criteria, saying they were codified only to ''make something completely subjective look objective.'' He added that teacher reports almost invariably come back as citing the behaviors that would warrant a diagnosis, a decision he called more economic than medical.
''The school said if they had other ideas they would,'' Dr. Anderson said. ''But the other ideas cost money and resources compared to meds.''
Dr. Anderson cited William G. Hasty Elementary School here in Canton as one school he deals with often. Izell McGruder, the school's principal, did not respond to several messages seeking comment.
Several educators contacted for this article considered the subject of A.D.H.D. so controversial -- the diagnosis was misused at times, they said, but for many children it is a serious learning disability -- that they declined to comment. The superintendent of one major school district in California, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, noted that diagnosis rates of A.D.H.D. have risen as sharply as school funding has declined.
''It's scary to think that this is what we've come to; how not funding public education to meet the needs of all kids has led to this,'' said the superintendent, referring to the use of stimulants in children without classic A.D.H.D. ''I don't know, but it could be happening right here. Maybe not as knowingly, but it could be a consequence of a doctor who sees a kid failing in overcrowded classes with 42 other kids and the frustrated parents asking what they can do. The doctor says, 'Maybe it's A.D.H.D., let's give this a try.' ''
When told that the Rocaforts insist that their two children on Adderall do not have A.D.H.D. and never did, Dr. Anderson said he was surprised. He consulted their charts and found the parent questionnaire. Every category, which assessed the severity of behaviors associated with A.D.H.D., received a five out of five except one, which was a four.
''This is my whole angst about the thing,'' Dr. Anderson said. ''We put a label on something that isn't binary -- you have it or you don't. We won't just say that there is a student who has problems in school, problems at home, and probably, according to the doctor with agreement of the parents, will try medical treatment.''
He added, ''We might not know the long-term effects, but we do know the short-term costs of school failure, which are real. I am looking to the individual person and where they are right now. I am the doctor for the patient, not for society.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Amanda Rocafort and her son Quintn in Woodstock, Ga. Quintn takes the medication Risperdal. (A1)
Quintn Rocafort, 11, played while his father, Rocky, in light shirt, talked with the managers of a Woodstock, Ga., car wash where he and his wife, Amanda, work. At left, the Rocafort family, from left, Alexis, 12
Amanda
Ethan, 10
Quintn
Rocky
and Perry, 11. Below, the medications taken by the Rocafort children, which include Adderall, Risperdal and Clonidine.
 Dr. Michael Anderson said that in place of changing a child's environment, society chooses ''to modify the kid.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRYAN MELTZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEARNING DISABILITIES (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (89%); PSYCHIATRY (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); PEDIATRICS (77%); FAMILY SERVICES (77%); ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); TRENDS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (70%); MENTAL HEALTH (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (53%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



346 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: The Policy Verdict I

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
In Thursday night's debate, Vice President Joe Biden will almost certainly go after Representative Paul Ryan's Medicare plan. And why shouldn't he? It's unpopular. But I'd like to make a case for that plan. It's the best thing the Romney-Ryan campaign has going for it.
First, let's define the problem. Today, Medicare costs about $550 billion. By 2020, according to the Congressional Budget Office, it will cost more than $1 trillion, sucking money away from every other government program.
According to the Urban Institute, the average couple in 2010 had paid $109,000 in Medicare taxes during their working years but would be able to receive about $343,000 in benefits. A chunk of that $234,000 gap will be paid for by their grandkids. That should weigh on the conscience of every American over 55. You're supposed to help your grandkids, not take from them.
Basically, there are two ways to reduce Medicare inflation, through the political system or through a market system. Obamacare tries the former. The current budget projections are so bad because almost no one outside the employ of the president believes this approach will reduce Medicare costs. Obama's primary cost-control instrument is an independent board of experts that Mitt Romney mentioned often in last week's debate. It's supposed to lower payment levels.
There are problems. It's hard for a few people in Washington to centrally rejigger something that complex. Second, the board is not really out of political control. Congress has already restricted its power and has devised gimmicky ways to overrule an unpopular decision. (All decisions to restrict benefits are unpopular.)
The history of Medicare is strewed with efforts to control costs by controlling prices. The results are terrible. Providers just increase the number of services, redefine the classification of services or find other ways to get their money back. A study by the Congressional Budget Office found that, between 1997 and 2005, Medicare payments for individual treatments fell by 5 percent, but the total spent on these services skyrocketed by 35 percent. Doctors made up in volume what they lost in reimbursement levels.
The second approach is to replace the fee-for-service system with more normal market incentives. Give recipients a choice among insurance options and have providers compete to offer comprehensive coverage like today's Medicare.
This idea has been floating around for a while, and it used to be popular in parts of the Democratic Party until the party swung left. Senator John Breaux, a Democrat, co-led a commission that promoted this idea in 1997. Bill Clinton floated a ''managed competition'' plan for Medicare late in his presidency. Democrat Alice Rivlin and Republican Pete Domenici have co-authored a premium support plan for the Bipartisan Policy Center.
Paul Ryan wrote his own version a few years ago and has come up with a more moderate version with Senator Ron Wyden, a Democrat. Whenever you hear a Democrat say that Romney and Ryan would end Medicare or cost seniors $6,000, that is a misleading reference to the original Ryan plan, not anything on offer today. Today's Romney plan would not shift costs to seniors.
Would a market-based approach reduce costs? There are some reasons to think so. A study published in the Journal of the American Medical Association found that if Ryan-Wyden had been in place between 2006 and 2009, costs might have come down by around 9 percent with no reduction in benefits. Under a demonstration project in Denver in the 1990s, private plans bid 25 percent to 38 percent less than government-determined payment rates.
The Medicare drug benefit began in 2006 with a voucher approach. Costs have been about 30 percent below early estimates. A RAND Corporation study of consumer-directed high deductible plans found that when families had an incentive to monitor costs, they spent about 14 percent less.
Do these and other studies prove that market-based approaches would work? Absolutely not. In each case, the situation is complicated. Voucher plans may save money, but perhaps by shedding the sickest customers.
There are serious health economists who scoff at market-based strategies. Others just don't know. The leader of the Congressional Budget Office, Doug Elmendorf, candidly admitted at a Congressional hearing that his agency doesn't know how behavior would change under this sort of competition.
My bottom line is this: The status quo is cataclysmic. The national debt problem is a Medicare problem. The Democrats' price-control approach has little chance of working.
The Romney-Ryan approach might work. If it doesn't, the federal budget would suffer but seniors wouldn't. Today's seniors would be left untouched anyway, and tomorrow's would have the option of private plans or traditional Medicare. At worst, if the market approach flopped, we'd be back to where we started.
If we don't get Medicare right, there's no money for anything else. On this particular policy issue, the Republicans have the edge.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); BUDGET FORECASTS (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (68%)

COMPANY: DEMOCRAT CO (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%); URBAN INSTITUTE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (93%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); JOE BIDEN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); PETE DOMENICI (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



347 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: UnitedHealth to Buy 90% of Brazilian Provider

BYLINE: By MARK SCOTT

 BODY:
8:52 a.m. | Updated
The UnitedHealth Group agreed on Monday to buy a 90 percent stake in the Brazilian health care provider Amil Participações for $4.9 billion as the American insurer looked to expand in the fast-growing country.
Insurers like UnitedHealth have been hunting for growth opportunities overseas, hoping to counter tepid prospects in their home markets. While the introduction of the Affordable Care Act is expected to increase the number of customers, the new health care law will not significantly lift profits.
With the acquisition of Amil, UnitedHealth is aiming to capitalize on the favorable demographics of Brazil, which is benefiting from a strong economy and a growing middle class. In this environment, health care is booming. The number of policyholders for private health benefits rose 37 percent from 2005 to 2011.
Even so, there is room for growth. Only a quarter of Brazil's population has such coverage. By contrast, nearly 80 percent of Americans buy health insurance.
Amil is one of the country's largest health care providers, with more than five million customers. This year, the company is on track to post revenue of $5 billion, 15 percent more than in 2011.
"Brazil has emerged as a consistently growing and evolving market for private sector health benefits and services," UnitedHealth's chief excutive, Stephen J. Hemsley, said in a statement. "Combining Amil, the clear market leader serving an underpenetrated market of nearly 200 million people, with UnitedHealth Group's experiences and capabilities developed over the last three decades is the most compelling growth and value creation opportunity we have seen in years."
Under the terms of the deal, UnitedHealth, based in Minnetonka, Minn., will first buy a 60 percent stake in Amil, and then an additional 30 percent during the first half of 2013. After counting the tax breaks, UnitedHealth said the proposed deal would cost around $4.3 billion.
Amil's founder, Edson de Godoy Bueno, and his business partner, Dulce Pugliese de Godoy Bueno, will retain a 10 percent stake in Amil. Mr. Bueno will continue to run Amil and will join UnitedHealth's board.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephen Hemsley of UnitedHealth says the deal will aid growth. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANNY MOLOSHOK/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (91%); INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MARKET INCIDENCE (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (71%)

COMPANY: UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (91%); AMIL PARTICIPACOES SA (91%)

TICKER: UNH (NYSE) (91%); AMIL3 (BOVESPA) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (91%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); NAICS621491 HMO MEDICAL CENTERS (91%); SIC8011 OFFICES & CLINICS OF DOCTORS OF MEDICINE (91%)

PERSON: STEPHEN J HEMSLEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) BRAZIL (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



348 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Panel Cites Risks In Chinese Equipment

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT, KEITH BRADSHER and CHRISTINE HAUSER; Michael S. Schmidt reported from Washington and Christine Hauser from New York. Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Hong Kong, and Quentin Hardy from San Francisco.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In the latest development to highlight the sensitive terrain that the United States and China are navigating on economic issues, a House committee issued a blistering bipartisan report on Monday that accused two of China's largest telecommunications companies of being arms of the government that had stolen intellectual property from American companies and could potentially spy on Americans.
The House Intelligence Committee said that after a yearlong investigation it had come to the conclusion that the Chinese businesses, Huawei Technologies and ZTE Inc., were a national security threat because of their attempts to extract sensitive information from American companies and their loyalties to the Chinese government.
The companies sell telecommunications equipment needed to create and operate wireless networks, like the ones used by Verizon Wireless and AT&T. Many of the major suppliers of the equipment are based outside the United States, creating concerns here about the security of communications.
Those concerns are most acute about Huawei and ZTE because of their close ties to the Chinese government, which the committee said has heavily subsidized the companies. Allowing the Chinese companies to do business in the United States, the report said, would give the Chinese government the ability to easily intercept communications and could allow it to start online attacks on critical infrastructure, like dams and power grids.
The release of the report comes as both presidential candidates have spoken of the importance of United States ties with China and have promised to act strongly on Chinese currency and trade practices that are damaging to American business interests.
Mitt Romney, the Republican presidential candidate, has called repeatedly during his campaign for a more confrontational approach to China on business issues, although he has focused his warnings more on Chinese currency market interventions than on the activities of the nation's telecommunications companies.
President Obama has also taken a tougher stance on China recently. Late last month, Mr. Obama, through the Committee on Foreign Investment, ordered a Chinese company to divest itself of interests in four wind farm projects near a Navy base in Oregon where drone aircraft training takes place. It was the first time a president had blocked such a deal in 22 years.
The Obama administration has also filed a case at the World Trade Organization in Geneva accusing China of unfairly subsidizing its exports of autos and auto parts, the ninth trade action the administration has brought against China.
''We have a process that is not aimed at one specific company but using all the assets and parts of U.S. government aimed at protecting our telecommunications and critical infrastructure,'' a senior White House official said.
The report was released on Monday morning at a news conference held by
Representative Mike Rogers, Republican of Michigan, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, and Representative C. A. Ruppersberger of Maryland, the top Democrat on the committee.
They said that the United States government should be barred from doing business with Huawei and ZTE and that American companies should avoid buying their equipment.
The report said the committee had obtained internal documents from former employees of Huawei that showed it supplied services to a ''cyberwarfare'' unit in the People's Liberation Army.
The United States government, the report said, should go through the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, an interagency panel that reviews the national security implications of foreign investments, to carry out its recommendations. It also said that committee should block any mergers and acquisitions involving the Chinese companies and American businesses.
In the course of the investigation, the House committee said it had uncovered evidence of economic espionage -- and officials said on Monday that they planned to hand over the evidence to the F.B.I.
Former and current employees for Huawei, the report said, told investigators for the committee that the company had committed ''potential violations'' in the United States related to immigration, bribery, corruption and copyright infringement.
Huawei has been the focus of criticism and security warnings for years, including by the Defense Department. Its expansion plans in the United States have faced resistance from Congress over questions about its ties to the military in China.
Huawei denies being financed to undertake research and development for the Chinese military, and its executives have repeatedly insisted that they have nothing to hide. The company issued an open letter to the United States government in February 2011, asking for an inquiry to clear up what it characterized as misperceptions about its history and business operations.
At the news conference, Mr. Rogers and Mr. Ruppersberger said they told the Chinese companies that they had to be moretransparent but were disappointed by incomplete and contradictory responses to their questions. Mr. Rogers said the committee was concerned that the companies were extensions of the Chinese government because they were so heavily financed by it.
In testimony before the House committee in September, officials from both Huawei and ZTE said that supposed ''back doors'' in its software that provided unauthorized access to American companies' computers were flaws, not intentional vulnerabilities.
But Mr. Rogers said the companies had been told to tell the Chinese to ''stop hacking'' into American companies and infrastructure if they wanted to do business in the United States.
''The world is a changed place,'' Mr. Rogers said. ''We better have faith and confidence in our network.''
In a statement, Huawei condemned the committee's investigation and report. ''Unfortunately, the committee's report not only ignored our proven track record of network security in the United States and globally, but also paid no attention to the large amount of facts that we have provided,'' Huawei said in its statement, later adding that ''the report released by the committee today employs many rumors and speculations to prove nonexistent accusations.''
Huawei has had considerable success in winning large telecommunications contracts in Europe and in emerging markets. But it has had little success in the United States, where politicians have long worried, despite Huawei's denials, that it might be used for Chinese eavesdropping or other cyberwarfare activities.
The company was founded in 1987 by Ren Zhengfei, a former officer of the People's Liberation Army and a military technology researcher who has run it ever since. The company is owned by its employees and, unlike many Chinese corporations, has chosen not to sell shares in Hong Kong or the United States, which would equire financial disclosures.
ZTE said on Monday that it ''had set an unprecedented standard for cooperation by any Chinese company'' with a Congressional investigation.
''ZTE is China's most transparent, independent, globally focused, publicly traded telecom company,'' the company said in a statement.
At a regularly scheduled news conference in Beijing on Monday before the release of the report in Washington, Hong Lei, a Foreign Ministry spokesman, said ''I hope the United States will respect the facts, abandon prejudice and do more things conducive to China-U.S. economic and trade cooperation, rather than the opposite.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Mike Rogers, left, Republican of Michigan, talked on Monday about Chinese security threats. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES)
 Charles Ding of Huawei, left, and Zhu Jinyun of ZTE testified on Capitol Hill about their companies in September. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (74%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (72%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); NAVIES (70%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (69%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); CURRENCIES (69%); WIND ENERGY (65%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (57%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (57%); WIND POWER PLANTS (50%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (50%); EXPORT PROMOTION (50%)

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (83%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (76%); MICHAEL J ROGERS (57%); MIKE ROGERS (57%); C A DUTCH RUPPERSBERGER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); SWITZERLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



349 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: Stirrings of Resentment Over I.M.F. Help for Europe

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- It is one of the ironies of the euro zone crisis. The Europeans who have long dominated the International Monetary Fund are now the ones borrowing its money and swallowing its advice.
The I.M.F., traditionally a lender to poor countries, now devotes more than half of its financial resources to the euro zone. Moreover, the fund and its managing director, Christine Lagarde, have emerged as the taskmasters that European leaders seem to need to flog them toward a solution to the crisis.
The fund's critical role in Europe has revitalized the organization's claim to relevance in world affairs. Last month, Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, gave the fund an important new task, requesting that it keep an eye on the behavior of countries like Spain if the bank took measures to contain their borrowing costs.
''The E.C.B. wants an independent observer,'' said Manuela Moschella, an assistant professor at the University of Turin who studies the I.M.F. ''They want someone who can blow the whistle and say what is going on.''
But there is also resentment among some of the 188 countries that belong to the fund and supply its financial firepower. These discontents are likely to surface in Tokyo when the I.M.F. and World Bank hold their annual meetings, starting Tuesday.
The United States and Canada, among others, have objected to the shift of resources to Europe at the same time that European countries have blocked changes that would give emerging countries a greater voice in I.M.F. decision-making.
Canadian leaders, in particular, have complained that countries whose people live on a few dollars a day should not be asked to help maintain the European welfare state.
''The feeling is that the Europeans don't want to swallow the tough medicine,'' said Bessma Momani, a professor of political science at the University of Waterloo in Ontario. There is, she said, ''a more general sense that European society and way of life are passé.''
Before the beginning of the financial crisis in 2008, the fund provided almost no financial assistance to Europe. Now resources committed to the European Union, including countries like Greece and Portugal, account for 56 percent of the I.M.F. total, or &#x20ac;110 billion, equal to $143 billion.
The first European countries to seek I.M.F. help in recent years were former Soviet Bloc countries, like Latvia and Hungary in 2008, both of which are members of the European Union. The I.M.F. also played a main role in the Vienna Initiative in 2009, in which the European Union and commercial banks cooperated to prevent the collapse of the financial systems in Eastern Europe.
Management of the I.M.F. has long been dominated by Europeans, leading to accusations that the region is now getting preferential treatment. Since its founding in 1946, all of the fund's managing directors have been European, and four of the past six have been French. Ms. Lagarde is a former French finance minister.
''There is at least the suspicion that the European members will get easier terms'' for financing, Ms. Moschella said. ''This is really a threat to the credibility of the organization. I think the I.M.F. has behaved correctly, but the suspicion is there.''
European countries continue to contribute more money to I.M.F. coffers than they take back in loans. Germany's quota, or maximum financial commitment, is $14.6 billion, while France's is $10.7 billion. The largest contributor is the United States, with a quota of $42.1 billion out of a total for the fund of $238 billion.
Officials at the fund argue that the euro zone crisis has become a threat to the global economy, including poorer countries, and it is in everyone's interest to fix it. As members of the I.M.F. and financial contributors, European countries have as much right to ask for help as other members.
''When there are systemic crises that affect other countries in the world, it is natural for the fund to be involved,'' said Reza Moghadam, director of the fund's European department.
''The fund has huge depth of expertise in crisis management,'' Mr. Moghadam added. ''We have dealt with a lot of crises in the past and there is huge institutional knowledge.''
Many analysts agree that there is no other organization with the clout, money or expertise to serve the crucial role of outside arbiter to quarreling euro zone members.
''Expertise and impartiality -- that's what they bring to the table,'' said Carl B. Weinberg, chief economist at the research firm High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, New York. ''They know how to walk into a government treasury and look at the books and know what they're seeing.'' Mr. Weinberg, as a banker earlier in his career, worked with the I.M.F. on debt restructuring programs in Mexico and other countries.
Ms. Lagarde has helped Mr. Draghi and U.S. leaders put pressure on European officials to move more aggressively to fight the crisis.
During a speech in Washington late last month, Ms. Lagarde beseeched European leaders to ''implement the European firewall -- notably the European Stability Mechanism; implement the agreed plan for fiscal union; and, at the country level, implement the programs that are essential for growth, jobs and competitiveness.''
If, as expected, Spanish leaders ask for help from the E.C.B., the I.M.F. would monitor whether the country kept promises to overhaul the economy and contain government spending. The E.C.B. does not want to take the risk of buying Spanish bonds, a way of lowering the country's borrowing costs, without such conditions.
The euro zone crisis has also presented the I.M.F. with unprecedented organizational challenges. Instead of dealing with one country, it must deal with the 17 members of the currency union. They frequently do not agree, and decision-making is slow. In overseeing lending and restructuring programs in Greece, Portugal and Ireland, the fund has shared authority with the E.C.B. and the European Commission, with the three known as the troika.
''The fund's relationship with Europe is more complicated than anything it has ever been involved in,'' said Edwin M. Truman, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.
While he said the fund had done a ''reasonable job'' in Europe, Mr. Truman also called the I.M.F.'s involvement on the Continent a ''political subterfuge'' because the euro zone countries were effectively outsourcing responsibilities they should be taking on themselves.
Some observers say that European countries made the fund's task more difficult because they hesitated too long to ask for help, for reasons of pride.
''We should have let the I.M.F. in earlier in Greece,'' said Erik Berglof, chief economist at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. ''We could have maybe had an earlier solution to the Greek problem and not allow it to grow in magnitude before it was addressed.''
There is a risk that European leaders will repeat the same mistake in Spain, waiting to call in the I.M.F. until the crisis is acute. No national leader likes to take orders from an outside institution, especially in Europe, where countries are not used to being charity cases. The stigma and loss of sovereignty are likely reasons that Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy of Spain has delayed asking for help.The fund has learned from its own mistakes in places like Asia that too much austerity can be counterproductive, but was not always able to apply that experience. In Greece, for example, Germany and other northern countries insisted on a strict austerity program. ''The I.M.F. has learned a lot how to design programs and structural reform measures and how to embed them in the local political system,'' Mr. Berglof said. ''That experience the European institutions didn't have from the beginning.''
Though the I.M.F.'s presence in Europe may not please everyone, it is likely to continue growing. No other institution, even the E.C.B., has the political independence or expertise needed to oversee restructuring programs in a country like Spain. Canada and other countries who resent paying for a European bailout are not likely to block one altogether.
Said Mr. Berglof of the E.B.R.D., ''There is a broader constituency that has a very strong stake in the resolution of the economic problems in Europe.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); EURO (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (67%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (55%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (91%); ONTARIO, CANADA (54%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (97%); GERMANY (91%); CANADA (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); SPAIN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); GREECE (58%); LATVIA (57%); JAPAN (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



350 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Politics; FIVETHIRTYEIGHT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Following the Job Numbers, as Well as Bouncing Polls

BYLINE: By NATE SILVER

 BODY:
After a summer in which the polling in the presidential race was exceptionally stable - withPresident Obama generally holding a lead of about two percentage points in national surveys - the numbers since the party conventions have been a wild ride.
Mr. Obama got a bounce coming out of Charlotte, and it had some staying power - with his national lead appearing to peak at about five or six percentage points. But polling released immediately after the debate seemed to suggest that Mr. Romney had drawn into a rough national tie.
By the weekend, however - after the release of a favorable jobs report last Friday - Mr. Romney's bounce seemed to be receding some. Tracking polls released on Monday by Gallup and Rasmussen Reports actually showed a shift back toward Mr. Obama, although another poll by Pew Research showed Mr. Romney with a four-point lead among likely voters.
Polling data is often very noisy, and not all polls use equally rigorous methodology. But the polls, as a whole, remain consistent with the idea that they may end up settling where they were before the conventions, with Mr. Obama ahead by about two points. Such an outcome would be in line with what history and the fundamentals of the economy would lead you to expect.
Because economic data can be as noisy as the polls, the FiveThirtyEight forecast model uses seven different economic statistics to calibrate its predictions. Some of these make a more favorable case for Mr. Obama than others. The stock market has shown very strong growth over the course of his term, especially in the past six months. Inflation has been low, although gas prices have sometimes been an exception. And the manufacturing sector of the economy has been reasonably sound.
G.D.P. growth, however, has been sluggish - and growth in take-home income has been worse, barely keeping up with population growth. Although consumer spending on some products like cars is up, a broader-based measure called personal consumption expenditures shows that Americans aren't spending all that much.
The one measure that has been closest to the consensus of the data, however, is jobs growth, as measured by the increase in nonfarm payrolls. (This should be distinguished from the unemployment rate, which is calculated through a separate survey and which is subject to a higher degree of statistical error.)
The economy has added an average of 146,000 jobs per month so far this year, according to the government's latest figures. That is slightly higher than the average gain in past election years. Since 1956, monthly job growth has averaged 135,000 in January through September.
However, because the population and the labor force are now larger than they once were, the economy needs to add more jobs to keep pace with it. As measured on a percentage basis, jobs have grown by 1.0 percentage points since December, slightly below the election-year average of 1.4 percent.
There are four election years - 1956, 1960, 2000 and 2004 - when jobs growth was broadly similar to the trend this year. The 1956 election serves as a reminder that the economy isn't everything:Dwight D. Eisenhower won in a landslide. But the 1960 and 2000 elections were virtual ties, whileGeorge W. Bush won by 2.5 percentage points in 2004.
A more systematic way to analyze the data is to chart the rate of jobs growth against the margin of victory or defeat for the incumbent party. If past trends hold, that analysis predicts a very narrow victory for Mr. Obama - by 2.1 percentage points over Mr. Romney, similar to Mr. Bush's margin of victory in 2004.
But the exact math is probably not as important as the broader conclusion: that the economy is line with Mr. Obama being a very modest favorite.
Had Mr. Obama been on track to win by five or six percentage points, then we could say that Mr. Romney was underperforming the fundamentals.
In Denver, however, Mr. Romney presented himself as an acceptable and competent alternative. Challengers also generally profit from the first debate: in 8 of the 10 election cycles since 1976, the polls moved against the incumbent, and a net gain of two or three percentage points for the challenger is a reasonably typical figure.
At the same time, incumbent presidents just aren't that easy to defeat. Mr. Obama's approval ratings are now hovering around 50 percent and don't seem to have been negatively affected by his performance in Denver. Although Mr. Obama's approval ratings may be slightly lower among those most likely to vote - meaning that Mr. Romney could win with a strong turnout - historically that number has been just good enough to re-elect an incumbent. (Mr. Bush's approval ratings were in the same range late in 2004.)
In some ways, then, the election might not be quite so unpredictable as it appears. There was reason to believe that Mr. Obama's numbers would fade some after his convention - and the first debate has quite often been a time when the challenger drew the race closer.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Jobs Numbers and Keeping the White House: The larger the increase in jobs in the months leading up to the election, the more likely it will be that the incumbent party will keep control of the White House. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); CONSUMER SPENDING (87%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (70%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



351 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: With New Vigor, Romney Resets Ohio Campaign

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and JIM RUTENBERG; Jeff Zeleny reported from Columbus, and Jim Rutenberg from New York.

 BODY:
COLUMBUS, Ohio -- If one place is emerging as a test of Mitt Romney's ability to capitalize on a new dynamic in the presidential race, it is Ohio, where he is intensifying his advertising, deploying more troops and spending four of the next five days.
Ohio, whose 18 electoral votes are critical to Mr. Romney's candidacy, has bedeviled him like no other battleground state. His prospects were so shaky two weeks ago that his advisers openly discussed the narrow path to winning the necessary 270 electoral votes without Ohio, which every Republican president in the nation's history has carried.
But as the race for the White House takes on a new air of volatility after President Obama's off-kilter debate performance last week -- a poll from the nonpartisan Pew Research Center on Monday suggested that Mr. Romney had wiped out the president's lead among voters nationally -- Mr. Romney is displaying new vigor in his fight for Ohio. The state, along with Florida, Iowa and Virginia, is now at the heart of his strategy for the remaining 28 days of the campaign.
Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney are both visiting Ohio on Tuesday, the final day of voter registration here, but Mr. Romney is sticking around for one of his most intensive bursts of campaigning yet. His increased presence is a response to pleas from state Republican leaders to invest more time and attention in the regions where he needs to turn out voters.
''Republicans who were concerned about some of the poll numbers now have a higher degree of enthusiasm,'' said Senator Rob Portman, the chairman of Mr. Romney's campaign here. ''We've got a great opportunity to keep the momentum going.''
For the first time, Mr. Romney is personally making his case in a new television ad, saying, ''Ohio families can't afford four more years like the last four.'' The message, while hardly novel, is welcome among Republicans who have watched with frustration as Mr. Obama's campaign has dominated airwaves for weeks with a tailor-made operation in Ohio.
Mr. Romney's problems here have included the Obama campaign's success at defining him to many voters over the summer as an out-of-touch corporate raider, as well as a state economy that has been more vibrant than the country's over all. With both the state and national unemployment rates now below 8 percent, Mr. Romney may have less opportunity than he did earlier this year to convince voters when he asks them in his new ad, ''The question Ohio families are asking is 'Who can bring back the jobs?' ''
Several Republican officials, asked why Mr. Romney has been lagging well behind Mr. Obama, responded it was not because Mr. Romney was not selling here, but rather that his campaign had not been selling him well.
The president's campaign has overwhelmed Mr. Romney until now in television advertising. In Youngstown, Mr. Romney and his allied groups ran virtually no advertisements through much of September, as Mr. Obama and his Democratic allies showed their ads more than 1,100 times, according to data compiled by the media monitoring firm Kantar Media/CMAG.
Mr. Romney has now increased his advertising in smaller markets across the state, including Youngstown, Zanesville and Lima. He is scheduled to travel the state on Tuesday and Wednesday with Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey at his side, hoping to keep enthusiasm high among Republicans who have been showing up in greater numbers at volunteer centers across the state this week.
If the Romney campaign is to have a lasting resurgence in the four weeks until Election Day, his advisers say it must come in states like Ohio. But the presidential debate in Denver last week, where Mr. Romney commanded the stage, has provided him an opportunity to reset the contest.
The president's advisers acknowledged in interviews that Mr. Romney was almost certain to get a ''second look'' from some Republican-leaning independent voters who had not yet embraced him despite misgivings about Mr. Obama, including in reliably Republican rural areas where Mr. Romney needs a large turnout.
A Republican-leaning voter in the Cincinnati area who was ambivalent about Mr. Romney before the debate said on Monday that she was now solidly on board.
''I was never really sure where he stood or who he was,'' said the voter, Sara Campbell, 36, a mother of three. ''To me, you have to be a strong leader in not only what you're deciding, but also the way you come across.''
She added: ''When he was right up against Obama, it really showed that he was strong, that he stands behind his convictions. And that was something that was important for me to see.''
Cathy Appel, 53, an independent voter from suburban Columbus, said she believed that Mr. Romney did a better job in the debate. But she said she was still leaning toward Mr. Obama because of Mr. Romney's positions on women's issues. ''Mitt Romney came across much more confidently than I would have thought,'' said Ms. Appel, a retired government worker. ''But I can't imagine selling myself down the river.''
Republican strategists in Ohio said Mr. Romney needed to increase his support among women, particularly in suburban areas. Requests from state Republicans for a television commercial featuring Ann Romney have not yet been approved by the campaign headquarters in Boston.
But Mr. Romney is now trying to focus his appeal to specific voters in each corner of Ohio, with a focus on coal production in the southeast, conservative values in the southwest and a bipartisan pitch in the suburbs of Cleveland. In that area, George V. Voinovich, a former senator and governor, declares in a new radio ad, ''Mitt Romney will bring us together and end the divisiveness we have seen in Washington.''
The first polls since the debate last week suggest that enthusiasm and optimism are increasing among Republicans even as they send mixed signals about voter preferences in what has become a more fluid campaign.
The Pew Research poll on Monday found that Mr. Romney is backed by 49 percent of likely voters nationwide and that Mr. Obama is supported by 45 percent, which is within the poll's margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points for each candidate. But a Gallup survey of registered voters showed Monday that Mr. Obama is the choice of 50 percent and Mr. Romney of 45 percent.
Advisers to both campaigns said they needed to wait for more focus groups and polls to determine the state of the race. The president's aides argued that, at best, Mr. Obama's uneven debate performance hastened a tightening in polls that they said was going to happen this fall.
''We've always prepared for a close and competitive election, and we continue to,'' Jim Messina, the president's campaign manager, said in an interview.
The president continues to have more paths to reaching 270 electoral votes.
To win, Mr. Romney needs what some aides to Mr. Obama have been calling ''an inside straight,'' including winning Florida, Ohio, Virginia and either Colorado, Iowa or Nevada. But it is not a prospect that Democrats rule out, which is why Mr. Obama is scheduled to visit Ohio State University on Tuesday.
The president has spent considerable time on college campuses this fall, which was the subject of frustration on a recent morning in a conversation among party activists at a Republican Victory Center in Delaware County, just north of Columbus. Three volunteers, who were upbeat over last week's debate, asked a reporter if Mr. Romney ever visited college campuses.
''He needs to campaign much harder,'' said Jeff Edmister, 51, a Republican from nearby Westerville. ''But thank goodness he's starting to kick it up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney is spending several days in Ohio, a state every Republican president has carried. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); HISTORY (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (63%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); ROB PORTMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (74%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



352 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Sbarro Plan For Growth Is Starting In Kitchen

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
The pizza wars may be just beginning.
Executives at Sbarro, the chain ubiquitous at shopping malls and airports, are hoping to elevate their restaurants in consumers' minds with a better quality of pizza.
Aided by some technological changes, the company will return to making tomato sauce fresh and shredding cheese in each restaurant, instead of using prepackaged ingredients. The reformulated pizza is intended to help transform Sbarro into a ''fast casual'' restaurant chain like Panera Bread and Qdoba, said James J. Greco, who became chief executive at the beginning of the year.
Such restaurants offer customers better food quality and specialization without full table service, thus falling somewhere between fast food, or what the industry calls quick service, and casual dining restaurants. Customers often can select the ingredients for, say, a basic item like a pizza or a sandwich, which is made in a few minutes and handed over a counter for a meal costing $8 to $15.
Several pizza chains that have emphasized quick service are making the transition to the fast-casual category, said Darren Tristano, executive vice president of Technomic, an industry consulting firm. Pizza Inn, which has 300 restaurants, recently started Pie Five Pizza, a fast-casual chain that bakes nine-inch pizzas ''designed'' by customers in five minutes. Naked Pizza of New Orleans and 800 Degree Pizza out of Los Angeles are other examples.
''Sbarro fits into the quick service category because of its price point and service format, where nothing is made to order,'' Mr. Tristano said. ''In malls and food courts, they've struggled during the recession, and in their stores in urban and suburban locations, they're really up against much larger chains in the delivery space.''
A 56-year-old pizza chain founded in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, Sbarro staggered into bankruptcy in April 2011 with more than $400 million of debt. Its sales, like those of many other restaurants, had slid during the recession as customers ate out less and prices rose for commodities like flour. It exited bankruptcy eight months later, after shedding 28 stores and securing a $35 million line of credit.
Now Apollo Global Management and more than two dozen other investors are banking on Mr. Greco to achieve the same kind of turnaround at Sbarro that he did in his last post, at Bruegger's, the bagel chain. A private company, Sbarro said it had $650 million in worldwide sales in 2011, $420 million of which was in the United States.
''We have to change people's perception of us,'' Mr. Greco said over one of the company's new cheese pizzas at its store north of Times Square. ''We feel there's no better way to do that than to get this pizza into as many mouths as possible as fast as we can.''
Thus, two vintage trucks are beginning a national tour, starting in New York and Los Angeles and working their way around the country, handing out free slices.
Mr. Greco faced a similar challenge at Bruegger's, one of the many bagel chains that thrived during the bagel enthusiasm of the 1980s but suffered when consumer preferences changed. He added soups, wraps, salads and sandwiches to that menu and, while the stores still sell bagels, it is a place to have a light lunch today.
Bruegger's was sold in 2011 to Groupe Le Duff, a French restaurant company that also owns Brioche Dorée, earning a hefty return for Sun Capital, the private equity firm that had hired Mr. Greco to fix it.
''He grew the brand and shifted it into a fast-casual place,'' Mr. Tristano said. ''He did a nice job of moving it more to a cafe.''
Since June, Sbarro has been testing a fast-casual format at 10 locations across the country. The updated restaurants offer pastas made to order in front of customers in 45 seconds in sauté pans on induction stovetops or in fast boilers sunk into countertops.
But the test has shown that pizza still drives Sbarro's sales. Pizza accounted for almost half of sales in the test sites, according to Nation's Restaurant News, while pasta generated just 6 percent.
For advice, Mr. Greco turned to a local pizza restaurant in New Haven, where he lives -- though he would not divulge the name of the shop or its owner. The goal was to come up with a basic, Neapolitan-style pizza that could stand up to the local pizza wherever there is a Sbarro store. ''Why can't we do that?'' Mr. Greco asked.
Along with changing ingredients, the chain is adding open-flame ovens to increase the ''theater'' of the experience as well as cut the time it takes to cook a pizza and reheat a slice.
To ensure consistency, the company long ago began making its tomato sauce and shredding its cheese in central locations and shipping it to restaurants.
Every pizza was the same -- but every pizza did not taste as good as it could, said Anthony J. Missano, president of business development at Sbarro.
The company is now shipping whole peeled San Marzano tomatoes, which are put through a food mill as needed and made into a sauce with minimal ingredients at the restaurants.
Cheese is shipped in blocks and shredded on site as well. ''People are much smarter about what they're eating,'' Mr. Missano said. ''They have higher expectations of what they're going to get when they go to a restaurant, and we're going to give it to them with this new pizza.''
The next step in Sbarro's turnaround will be to adjust its real estate mix. The company has about 1,000 stores, about 420 of which it owns; the rest are franchised. Four-fifths of them are in mall and airport food courts, where rents are high and it is easy for customers to move to a different counter.
Mr. Greco's plan is to open new stores on street fronts, where the company has about 70 restaurants.
''It's as if we are doing a jigsaw puzzle,'' he said. ''You dump out all the pieces on the table, sort through them and look at the picture on the box -- except that instead of putting the pieces back together to form the picture, you have to make a new picture out of them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James J. Greco, the chief of Sbarro, right, with Anthony J. Missano, the president, as a fresh pizza is pulled from the oven at one of the chain's restaurants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); FAST FOOD (91%); FAST CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (85%); RETAIL BAKERIES (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); SUBURBS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); PRICE INCREASES (64%)

COMPANY: PANERA BREAD CO (84%); PIZZA INN HOLDINGS INC (55%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (52%)

TICKER: PNRA (NASDAQ) (84%); PZZI (NASDAQ) (55%); APO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (84%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (84%); NAICS445291 BAKED GOODS STORES (84%); NAICS311811 RETAIL BAKERIES (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



353 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1409 words

HEADLINE: Investors' Billion-Dollar Fraud Fighter

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
A few days after securing the largest shareholder recovery arising from the financial crisis - $2.43 billion from Bank of America - the plaintiffs' lawyer Max W. Berger was not taking a victory lap.
"It makes me sad that in all of these scandals, no matter how good a job we do of getting results and inflicting pain, the government doesn't seem to follow suit, and nobody learns, and it's business as usual," he said in an interview.
After a pregnant pause, Mr. Berger broke into a sly smile. He had another thought: "It gives us a lot of business, but it still makes me sad."
With last month's settlement with Bank of America, which resolved claims that the bank had misled shareholders about its acquisition of an ailing Merrill Lynch, Mr. Berger, 66, has now been responsible for six securities class-action settlements of more than $1 billion. His firm, Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann, based in Manhattan, has represented investors in five of the 10 largest securities-fraud recoveries. So far, it has recovered $4.5 billion for investors in cases connected to the subprime mortgage collapse.
"He is unquestionably one the giants of the plaintiffs' bar," said Brad S. Karp, the managing partner at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, who represented Bank of America and has faced off against Mr. Berger in several other cases. "And what sets Max apart, beyond his talents as a lawyer, is that he's a mensch, a person of real humility and integrity."
There was a time, not too long ago, when the lions of the securities class-action bar were described in far less flattering terms. For decades, Melvyn I. Weiss and William S. Lerach, a pair of brash, crafty plaintiffs' lawyers, dominated this lucrative pocket of the legal industry. Their firm, Milberg Weiss, revolutionized shareholder class-action suits by filing streams of cases against corporations, accusing them of accounting fraud. Critics called their aggressive tactics legalized blackmail. Congress passed laws aimed at reining in their practices.
The careers of Mr. Weiss and Mr. Lerach ended in disgrace in 2006, when their firm was indicted on charges that it had funneled illegal kickbacks to clients to induce them to sue. Mr. Weiss, Mr. Lerach and two other Milberg Weiss partners ultimately served prison terms. (It did not help the standing of the plaintiffs' bar that at about the same time, Richard F. Scruggs, the Mississippi class-action lawyer, was imprisoned for trying to bribe a judge.)
"To be tarred by those brushes was very upsetting, but it was even worse to have everyone presume that we operated in the same way," Mr. Berger said. "After they were charged, I can't tell you how many people said, 'Well, isn't that what all of you do?' "
Yet a half-decade after Milberg's downfall, there has been a shift in the public image and reputation of the securities class-action bar. The Bank of America settlement, which is still subject to judicial approval, comes at a moment when plaintiffs' lawyers are being praised for extracting stiff penalties from banks related to their actions during the housing boom and the subsequent economic collapse. At the same time, resource-constrained government regulators have been criticized for not being tough enough.
In several cases, private plaintiffs have settled lawsuits for amounts far greater than the government received in similar actions. Bank of America, for instance, paid the Securities and Exchange Commission just $150 million to settle the commission's lawsuit connected to the Merrill acquisition. Judge Jed S. Rakoff reluctantly approved the S.E.C. settlement, calling it "inadequate and misguided" and the dollar amount "paltry."
"The securities class-action bar has come under relentless assault over the years," said J. Robert Brown Jr., a corporate law professor at the University of Denver. "Yet these suits, especially the ones tied to the financial crisis, actually have had real value in the capital markets because companies need to know that there is a heavy price to pay for their misconduct."
There are still detractors who scoff at that notion. These critics view securities class-action lawyers as bounty hunters who file nuisance lawsuits against deep-pocketed targets and then force them to settle rather than engage in costly litigation. They argue that the settlements have little deterrent effect because the payments almost always come from the corporations, not the executives and directors running the companies.
And questions have arisen over plaintiffs' lawyers' campaign contributions to local politicians who control the selection of legal counsel for shareholder lawsuits filed by public pension funds.
But even the most vocal opponents of securities-fraud class actions acknowledge that a variety of factors, including a combination of federal legislation and court rulings, have curbed abuses in the system. Many of the weakest cases are now thrown out earlier, and large institutional shareholders like state pension funds and insurance companies have taken greater control of the lawsuits.
They are also reining in the lawyers' fees. In the past, plaintiffs' lawyers received 20 percent to one-third of the settlement amount. Today the average fee award as a percentage of the recovery is much lower. In Bank of America, for example, Bernstein Litowitz and two other firms - Kessler Topaz Meltzer & Check and Kaplan Fox & Kilsheimer - are expected to ask for about $150 million, or 6 percent of the settlement.
"Things have definitely improved," said Theodore H. Frank, an adjunct fellow at the Manhattan Institute and a longtime critic of abusive class actions. "Is it perfect? No. Is it better? Yes."
Legal experts say the class actions filed after the financial crisis highlight the improvements. The lawsuits were far more risky and complex than the template "strike suits" that plaintiffs' firms once churned out every time a company's share price plummeted. And unlike large corporate scandals like Enron or WorldCom, there were no balance-sheet restatements or criminal convictions to use as evidence.
"We never viewed these cases as easy but felt we needed to be in them in a big way, so we really doubled down," Mr. Berger said.
Bernstein Litowitz's recent settlements read like a who's who of the "too big to fail" era. Wachovia and its auditor paid its bondholders $627 million to resolve charges related to its mortgage holdings. Merrill Lynch settled claims that it had misled buyers of mortgage products for $315 million. Lehman Brothers' underwriters paid $426 million to end a lawsuit over its stock sales. Washington Mutual's underwriters and insurers paid $205 million to investors in the now-collapsed bank.
The big mortgage-related settlements are expected to add up to hundreds of millions in fees for Bernstein Litowitz, a 52-lawyer firm. Mr. Berger and his three founding partners started the firm in 1983 after splitting off from Kreindler & Kreindler, a plaintiffs' firm best known for its aviation-disaster litigation.
The Bank of America settlement is a boon for the firm, ending nearly four years of bruising litigation and coming less than a month before it was set for trial. The lawsuit accused Bank of America of concealing from its shareholders, who were voting on the Merrill acquisition, the billions of dollars in mounting losses at Merrill, as well as billions in bonuses being paid out to Merrill executives.
Bernstein Litowitz and two other firms represented five plaintiffs: two Ohio pension funds, a Texas pension fund and two European pensions. Working with Mr. Berger on the case were his partners Mark Lebovitch, Hannah Ross and Steven B. Singer.
"This case will now serve as Exhibit A for corporate directors tempted to withhold information from shareholders," Mr. Berger said. "The message isn't complicated: Just tell the truth."
New matters, meanwhile, are coming in. Bernstein Litowitz was appointed lead plaintiffs' counsel in a lawsuit against JPMorgan Chase related to the bank's multibillion-dollar trading loss out of a unit in London. And it is involved in the litigation against Facebook and Morgan Stanley over the social networking company's botched initial public offering of stock.
Mr. Berger said finding cases had rarely been a problem.
"I can't predict the next scandal," Mr. Berger said. "But I know that fraud is a growth industry, and so is greed."
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Mark Lebovitch, Max Berger, Hannah Ross and Steven B. Singer worked on a suit that led Bank of America to pay a $2.43 billion settlement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); SCANDALS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EXTORTION (72%); ACCOUNTING (67%); INDICTMENTS (65%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (51%); SUBPRIME LENDING (51%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); PAUL WEISS RIFKIND WHARTON & GARRISON LLP (84%); BERNSTEIN LITOWITZ BERGER & GROSSMANN LLP (69%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



354 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Politics; Pg. 

LENGTH: 3393 words

HEADLINE: Transcript: Mitt Romney Remarks at Virginia Military Institute

 BODY:
The following is the full text of Mitt Romney's speech on foreign policy as delivered on Monday at the Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Va. (Transcript courtesy of Federal News Service)
MITT ROMNEY: Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so very much for that warm welcome. And I particularly appreciate the introduction by my good friend and tireless campaign companion, Governor Bob McDonnell. We have traveled the state together time and time again, and he goes all over the country helping me. He is also showing here in Virginia what conservative leadership can do to build a stronger economy.
And thank you also to Congressman Goodlatte for joining us today. I appreciate his service and leadership. And particular thanks to General Peay. I appreciate his invitation to be with you today at the Virginia Military Institute. It's a -- a privilege to be here at an institution like this that has done so much for our nation, both in times of war and in times of peace.
For more than 170 years VMI has done more than educate students. It has guided their transformation into citizens, warriors and leaders. VMI graduates have served with honor in our nation's defense, just as many are doing today in Afghanistan and in other lands. And Since the September 11th attacks, many of VMI's sons and daughters have defended America, and I mourn with you the 15 brave souls who have been lost. I join you in praying for the many VMI graduates who are right now serving in harm's way. May God bless all who serve and all who have served.
Of all the VMI graduates, none is more distinguished, perhaps, than General George Marshall, the chief of staff of the Army who became secretary of state and secretary of defense, who helped to vanquish fascism and then planned Europe's rescue from despair. His commitment to peace was born of his direct knowledge of the awful costs and consequences of war. General Marshall once said, quote, ''the only way human beings can win a war is to prevent it.''
Those words were true in his time, and they are true in our time.
Last month our nation was attacked again. A U.S. Ambassador and three of our fellow Americans are dead, murdered in Benghazi, Libya. Among the dead were three veterans. All of them were fine men on a mission of peace and friendship to a nation that clearly longs for both. President Obama has said that Ambassador Chris Stevens and his colleagues represented the best of America, and he's right. We all mourn their loss.
The attacks against us in Libya were not an isolated incident. They were accompanied by anti-American riots in nearly two dozen other countries, mostly in the Middle East, but also in Africa and Asia. Our embassies have been attacked. Our flag has been burned. Many of our citizens have been threatened and driven from their overseas homes by vicious mobs shouting ''Death to America.'' These mobs hoisted the black banner of Islamic extremism over American embassies on the anniversary of 9/11.
As the dust settles, as the murdered are buried, Americans are asking how this happened, how the threats we face have grown worse and what this calls on America to do. These are the right questions, and I've come here today to offer a larger perspective on these tragic recent events and to share with you and to share with all Americans my vision for a freer, more prosperous and more peaceful world.
The attacks on America last month should not be seen as random acts. They're expressions of a larger struggle that is playing out across the broader Middle East, a region that's now in the midst of the most profound upheaval in a century. And the fault lines of this struggle can be seen clearly in Benghazi itself.
The attack on our consulate there on September 11th, 2012, was likely the work of forces affiliated with those that attacked our homeland on September 11th, 2001.
This latest assault can't be blamed on a reprehensible video insulting Islam, despite the administration's attempts to convince us of that for so long. No, as the administration has finally conceded, these attacks were the deliberate work of terrorists who use violence to impose their dark ideology on others, especially on women and girls; who are fighting to control much of the Middle East today; and who seek to wage perpetual war on the West.
We saw all of this in Benghazi last month, but we also saw something else, something hopeful. After the attack on our consulate, tens of thousands of Libyans, most of them young people, held a massive protest in Benghazi against the very extremists who had murdered our people. They waved signs that read, ''The ambassador was Libya's friend'' and ''Libya is sorry.'' They chanted ''No to militias, no to militias.'' They marched, unarmed, to the terrorist compound and then they burned it to the ground. As one Libyan woman said, ''We are not going to go from darkness to darkness.''
This is the struggle that's now shaken the entire Middle East. It's the struggle of millions and millions of people -- men and women, young and old, Muslims, Christians and nonbelievers -- all of whom have had enough of the darkness. It's a struggle for the dignity that comes with freedom and opportunity and the right to live under laws of our own making. It's a struggle that's been unfolded under green banners in the streets of Iran, in the public squares of Tunisia and Egypt and Yemen, and in the fights for liberty in Iraq and Afghanistan and Libya, and now in Syria.
In short, it's a struggle between liberty and tyranny, justice and oppression, hope and despair.
We've seen this struggle before. It would be familiar to General George Marshall. In his time, the ashes of world war, another critical part of the world was torn between democracy and despotism. Fortunately, we had leaders of courage and vision, both Republicans and Democrats, who knew that America had to support friends who shared our values and prevent today's crises from becoming tomorrow's conflicts.
Statesmen like Marshall rallied our nation to rise to its responsibilities as the leader of the free world. We helped our friends to build and sustain free societies and free markets. We defended our friends and ourselves from our common enemies. We led. We led. And though the path was long and uncertain, the thought of war in Europe is as inconceivable today as it seemed inevitable in the last century.
This is what makes America exceptional: It is not only the character of our country; it is also the record of our accomplishments. America has a proud history of strong, confident, principled global leadership -- a history that's been written by patriots of both parties. That is America at its best and is the standard by which we measure every president as well as anyone who wishes to be president.
Unfortunately, this president's policies have not been equal to our best examples of world leadership. And nowhere is this more evident than in the Middle East.
I want to be very clear: The blame for the murder of our people in Libya, and the attacks on our embassies in so many other countries, lies solely with those who carried them out -- no one else. But it is our responsibility and the responsibility of the President to use America's great power to shape history, not to lead from behind, leaving our destiny at the mercy of events.
Unfortunately, that's exactly where we find ourselves in the Middle East under President Obama.
The relationship between the president of the United States and the prime minister of Israel, for example, our closest ally in the region, has suffered great strains. The president explicitly stated that his goal was to put daylight between the United States and Israel, and he's succeeded. This is a dangerous situation that has set back the hope of peace in the Middle East and emboldened our mutual adversaries, especially Iran.
Iran today has never been closer to a nuclear weapons capability. It has never posed a greater danger to our friends, our allies and to us. And it has never acted less deterred by America, as was made clear last year, when Iranian agents plotted to assassinate the Saudi ambassador in our nation's capital. And yet when millions of Iranians took to the streets in June of 2009; when they demanded freedom from a cruel regime that threatens the world; when they cried out, are you with us or are you with them, the American president was silent.
Across the greater Middle East, as the joy born from the downfall of dictators has given way to the painstaking work of building capable security forces and growing economies and developing effective democratic institutions, the president has failed to offer the tangible support that our partners want and need.
In Iraq the costly gains made by our troops are being eroded by rising violence, a resurgent al-Qaida, the weakening of democracy in Baghdad and the rising influence of Iran. And yet America's ability to influence events for the better in Iraq has been undermined by the abrupt withdrawal of our entire troop presence.
The president's tried, he tried, but he also failed to secure a responsible and gradual drawdown that would have better secured our gains.
The president has also failed to lead in Syria, where more than -- more than 30,000 men, women, and children have been massacred by the Assad regime over the past 20 months. Violent extremists are flowing into the fight. Our ally Turkey has been attacked. And the conflict threatens stability in the region.
America can take pride in the blows that our military and intelligence professionals have inflicted on al-Qaida in Pakistan and Afghanistan, including the killing of Osama bin Laden. These are real achievements won at a high cost. Al-Qaida remains a strong force, however, in Yemen and Somalia, in Libya and other parts of North Africa, in Iraq and now in Syria. And other extremists have gained ground across the region. Drones and the modern instruments of war are important tools in our fight, but they are no substitute for a national security strategy for the Middle East.
The president is fond of saying that ''the tide of war is receding.'' And I want to believe him as much as anyone else. But when we look at the Middle East today, with Iran closer than ever to nuclear weapons capability, with the conflict in Syria threatening to destabilize the region and with violent extremists on the march, and with an American ambassador and three others dead -- likely at the hands of al-Qaida affiliates -- it's clear that the risk of conflict in the region is higher now than when the president took office.
I know the president hopes for a safer, freer and more prosperous Middle East allied with us. I share this hope. But hope is not a strategy. We can't support our friends and defeat our enemies in the Middle East when our words are not backed up by deeds, when our defense spending is being arbitrarily and deeply cut, when we have no trade agenda to speak of and the perception of our strategy is not one of partnership, but of passivity.
The greater tragedy of it all is that we are missing an historic opportunity to win new friends who share our values in the Middle East -- friends who are fighting for their own futures against the very same violent extremists and evil tyrants and angry mobs who seek to harm us. Unfortunately, so many of these people who could be our friends feel that our president is indifferent to their quest for freedom and dignity. As one Syrian woman put it, ''We will not forget that you forgot about us.''
It is time to change course in the Middle East. That course should be organized around these bedrock principles: America must have confidence in our cause, clarity in our purpose and resolve in our might. No friend of America will question our commitment to support them. No enemy that attacks America will question our resolve to defeat them. And no one anywhere, friend or foe, will doubt America's capability to back up our words.
I will put the leaders of Iran on notice that the United States and our friends and allies will prevent them from acquiring nuclear weapons capability. I will not hesitate to impose new sanctions on Iran and will -- and will tighten the sanctions we currently have. I will restore the permanent presence of aircraft carrier task forces in both the Eastern Mediterranean and the Gulf. And I'll work with Israel to increase our military assistance and coordination. For the sake of peace, we must make clear to Iran through actions, not just words, that their nuclear pursuit will not be tolerated.
I'll reaffirm our historic ties to Israel and our abiding commitment to its security. The world must never see any daylight between our two nations.
I'll deepen our critical cooperation with our partners in the Gulf, and I'll roll back President Obama's deep and arbitrary cuts to our national defense that would devastate our military. I'll make the critical defense investments that we need to remain secure.
The decisions we make today will determine our ability to protect America tomorrow. The first purpose of a strong military is to prevent war.
The size of our Navy is at levels not seen since 1916. I'll restore our Navy to the size needed to fulfill our missions by building 15 ships per year, including three submarines. I'll implement effective missile defenses to protect against threats. And on this, there will be no flexibility with Vladimir Putin. And I will call on our NATO allies to keep the greatest military alliance in history strong by honoring their commitment to each devote 2 percent of their GDP to security spending. Today only three of the 28 NATO nations meet this benchmark.
I'll make further reforms to our foreign assistance to create incentives for good governance, for free enterprise and for greater trade in the Middle East and beyond. I'll organize all assistance efforts in the greater Middle East under one official with responsibility and accountability to prioritize efforts and to produce results.
I'll rally our friends and our allies to match our generosity with theirs. And I'll make it clear to the recipients of our aid that in return for our material support, they must meet the responsibilities of every decent, modern government: to respect the rights of all of their citizens, including women and minorities; to ensure space for civil society, a free media, political parties and an independent judiciary; and to abide by their international commitments to protect our diplomats and our property.
I'll champion free trade and restore it as a critical element of our strategy, both in the Middle East and across the world. The president has not signed one new free trade agreement in the past four years. I'll reverse that failure. I'll work with nations around the world that are committed to the principles of free enterprise, expanding existing relationships and establishing new ones.
I'll support friends across the Middle East who share our values but need help defending them and their sovereignty against our common enemies.
In Libya I'll support the Libyan people's efforts to forge a lasting government that represents all of them, and I'll vigorously pursue the terrorists who attacked our consulate in Benghazi and killed our fellow Americans.
In Egypt I'll use our influence, including clear conditions on our aid, to urge the new government to represent all Egyptians, to build democratic institutions and to maintain its peace treaty with Israel. And we must persuade our friends and allies to place similar stipulations on their aid.
In Syria I'll work with our partners to identify and organize those members of the opposition who share our values and then ensure they obtain the arms they need to defeat Assad's tanks helicopters and fighter jets. Iran is sending arms to Assad because they know his downfall would be a strategic defeat for them. We should be working no less vigorously through our international partners to support the many Syrians who would deliver that defeat to Iran, rather than sitting on the sidelines. It's essential that we develop influence with those forces in Syria that will one day lead a country that sits at the heart of the Middle East.
In Afghanistan I'll pursue a real and successful transition to Afghan security forces by the end of 2014.
President Obama would have you believe that anyone who disagrees with his decisions in Afghanistan is arguing for endless war. But the route to war and to potential attacks here at home is a politically timed retreat that abandons the Afghan people to the same extremists who ravaged their country and used it to launch the attacks of 9/11. I'll evaluate conditions on the ground and weigh the best advice of our military commanders. And I will affirm that my duty is not to protect my political prospects but to protect the security of the nation.
Finally, I'll recommit America to the goal of a democratic, prosperous Palestinian state living side by side in peace and security with the Jewish state of Israel. On this vital issue, the president has failed, and what should be a negotiation process has devolved into a series of heated disputes at the United Nations. In this old conflict, as in every challenge we face in the Middle East, only a new president will bring the chance to begin anew.
There's a longing for American leadership in the Middle East -- and it's not unique to that region. It's broadly felt by America's friends and allies in other parts of the world as well: in Europe, where Putin's Russia casts a long shadow over young democracies and where our oldest allies have been told we are ''pivoting'' away from them; in Asia and across the Pacific, where China's recent assertiveness is sending chills throughout that region; and here in our own hemisphere, where our neighbors in Latin America want to resist the failed ideology of Hugo Chavez and the Castro brothers and deepen ties with the United States on trade and energy and security. But in all of these places, just as in the Middle East, the question is asked: Where does America stand?
I know many Americans are asking a different question: Why us? I know many Americans are asking whether our country today, with our ailing economy and our massive debt and after 11 years at war, is still capable of leading.
I believe that if America doesn't lead, others will -- others who don't share our interests and our values -- and the world would grow darker, for our friends and for us. America's security and the cause of freedom cannot afford four more years like the last four years. I'm running for president because I believe the leader of the free world has a duty, to our citizens and to our friends everywhere, to use America's great influence, wisely, with solemnity and without false pride, but also firmly and actively, to shape events in ways that secure our interests, further our values, prevent conflict and make the world better -- not perfect but better.
Our friends and allies across the globe don't want less American leadership. They want more -- more of our moral support, more of our security cooperation, more of our trade, more of our assistance in building free societies and thriving economies. So many people across the world still look to America as the best hope of humankind. So many people still have faith in America. We must show them that we still have faith in ourselves; that we have the will and the wisdom to revive our stagnant economy, to roll back our unsustainable debt, to reform our government, to reverse the catastrophic cuts now threatening our national defense, to renew the sources of our great power and to lead the course of human events.
Sir Winston Churchill once said of George Marshall: ''He always fought victoriously against defeatism, discouragement and disillusion.''
That's the role our friends want America to play again, and it's the role we must play.
The 21st century can and must be an American century. It began with terror and war and economic calamity. It's our duty to steer it onto the path of freedom and peace and prosperity. The torch America carries is one of decency and hope. It's not America's torch alone, but it is America's duty and honor to hold it high enough that all the world can see its light.
Thank you so much for your participation in this great charge. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much. (Applause.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); ARMIES (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (65%); MURDER (64%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: VIRGINIA MILITARY INSTITUTE (94%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BOB GOODLATTE (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



355 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: Fire Big Bird? Is That Part of 'Starve the Beast'?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Kudos to Charles M. Blow for standing up for Big Bird (''Don't Mess With Big Bird,'' column, Oct. 6). As Mr. Blow notes, Mitt Romney predicated his attack on public television with the following litmus test: Is it worth ''spending money on things to borrow money from China to pay for'' them?
Although Mr. Romney professed to ''love Big Bird,'' PBS did not pass his test of necessity. Mr. Blow offers a robust and timely defense of public television, but what makes Mr. Romney's argument particularly outrageous is that today's debt crisis was in large part orchestrated by Republican policies over the last 30 years to ''starve the beast'' of the federal government so that spending money on things like public television would become fiscally impossible.
Now that the so-called beast has been revealed by the Republican standard-bearer as none other than Big Bird, will Americans stand for starving him?
JONATHAN BERLINER Los Angeles, Oct. 6, 2012
To the Editor:
Mitt Romney's comment during the presidential debate about cutting money to PBS would have slipped by except that he provided us with a bright yellow image that instantly conveyed his arrogance and lack of understanding of how America really lives.
Sadly, the Big Bird comment was probably one of the ''zingers'' Mr. Romney had been practicing since August, and yet neither he nor his team realized how those words revealed his character and heart.
PATRICIA L. DAY Houston, Oct. 7, 2012
To the Editor:
Is Mitt Romney really going to fire Big Bird? Why is laying off workers the first thing on his mind when he imagines being president? Will Cookie Monster be able to get cookies at the food bank, or will he be just another entitlement parasite?
Please, I need answers before I explain the world to my grandson.
IRIS ST.
JOHN Walnut Creek, Calif., Oct. 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STARVATION (88%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (71%); DEBT CRISIS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); POLITICAL DEBATES (69%); FOOD CHARITIES (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (68%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



356 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Mervyn Dymally, Trailblazer, Dies at 86

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
Mervyn M. Dymally, who broke barriers as a black lawmaker in California and in Congress after moving to the United States from his native Trinidad at age 19, died on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 86.
He had been in hospice care, his daughter, Lynn V. Dymally, said.
Mr. Dymally became California's first foreign-born black state assemblyman when he was elected in 1962, its first black state senator four years later and, in 1974, its first black lieutenant governor. In 1980 he became one of the first foreign-born blacks elected to the House of Representatives, where he served six terms representing Compton and other heavily black, low-income areas. He also led the Congressional Black Caucus for a time.
His success in winning office was rooted in his work organizing a new black Democratic base in areas around Los Angeles beginning in the 1950s and 1960s.
''This was a transformational period,'' said Raphael J. Sonenshein, an expert in racial and ethnic politics in Los Angeles and the executive director of the Pat Brown Institute of Public Affairs at California State University, Los Angeles. ''Between 1958 and 1962, the Democratic Party really came of age in the African-American community in California,'' he said.
The area's minority population had long been marginalized, but as the political climate changed, it created opportunities for new leaders like Mr. Dymally, Mr. Sonenshein said.
''If you came in from the outside and were able to put things together, it was fertile territory,'' he said. ''He was a very effective organizational leader.''
Mr. Dymally's rise partly paralleled that of Tom Bradley, who became the first black mayor of Los Angeles. But Mr. Bradley built a coalition from a rising black economic class and liberal whites; Mr. Dymally, by contrast, galvanized poor and working-class residents and labor unions. He worked to improve health care for the poor and sponsored legislation to lower the state voting age to 18 and to expand civil rights protections for women. As lieutenant governor under Gov. Jerry Brown, Mr. Dymally joined Cesar Chavez in trying to protect farm workers from automation, which was taking away jobs.
Mr. Dymally was often trailed by accusations of corruption, including that he took bribes, but he never faced criminal charges. In 1978, he was defeated while seeking re-election as lieutenant governor after a television news report that he was going to be indicted. The indictment never happened, and two years later Mr. Dymally was elected to Congress after two other candidates had split the white vote in a Democratic primary.
In 2002, a decade after he retired from Congress, he was elected to fill the same Assembly seat he had won in 1962. He served three terms and lost a 2008 bid for State Senate.
Mervyn Malcolm Dymally was born May 12, 1926, in Bonasse Village in Cedros, Trinidad. His father was a Muslim of Indian descent. His mother was a Roman Catholic of mixed racial heritage. He eventually made it to Southern California, where he graduated from California State University, Los Angeles, and later earned master's and doctoral degrees at other schools. He taught special education in Los Angeles schools before entering politics.
Besides his daughter, Lynn, he is survived by his wife of 44 years, the former Alice Gueno; his son, Mark; three sisters, Marjorie, Courtney and Hazel Dymally; two brothers, Bing and Malcolm; and three grandchildren. A marriage to Amentha Isaacs ended in divorce.
Lynn Dymally noted that even as her father embraced the struggles of American blacks, his own racial identity was complicated. She said that his marriage certificate to his first wife lists him as Indian, but that his race is described as ''Negro'' on her United States birth certificate.
Late in his life, as California became more diverse, he told his daughter, ''You know, it's strange, people are now referring to me as of Asian descent.''
Ms. Dymally added, ''He always considered himself black or African-American even though there were distinctive qualities about him that would have made some people think he was Indian.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Jerry Brown with Mervyn M. Dymally, then lieutenant governor, in 1978. Mr. Dymally also served 12 years in Congress. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LENNOX McLENDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); HOSPICE (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); ETHNICITY (73%); MAYORS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); BRIBERY (64%); INDICTMENTS (64%); CORRUPTION (64%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%); FARM LABOR (50%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



357 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Looking Into the Eyes of 'Made in China'

BYLINE: KERRI MACDONALD


HIGHLIGHT: Tired of the saga of "The Chinese Factory," Bloomberg photographer Lucas Schifres focused on making portraits of the workers who manufacture the possessions we often take for granted. 

 BODY:
Your clothes, your child's toys, even the device you use to read these words may have been made in China. They are among the $100 billion of goods that the United States imports from China each year - an exchange that has become an important issue in the 2012 presidential campaign.
But the people who manufacture these goods are rarely mentioned in political talking points or thought of by consumers.
In "Faces of Made in China," a series of typological portraits looking at workers inside six Chinese factories, the photographer Lucas Schifres seeks to consider the otherwise anonymous people who produce our essential possessions by looking directly into their eyes.
"Looking at a human face mobilizes more brain cells than looking at anything else," said Mr. Schifres, 39. It was a simple idea, meant to present a new dimension to the story; to put a face to labor in China - which has come into the spotlight amid United States election campaign debate over trade with China.
As a Bloomberg photographer, Mr. Schifres had seen his share of Chinese factories. He began covering the tale of Chinese growth when he relocated from Paris to Beijing by way of Hong Kong in 2006. A year later, he moved to Shanghai to work freelance.
It wasn't long before the saga of "The Chinese Factory" grew tiresome. "I get assignments from magazines and they all want the story of 'Made in China,' " he said. The topic ranged from the economics to industrial pollution. Each leaned toward the enormity of the industrial machine, not the people behind it.
Mr. Schifres returned often to Zhenhua Port Machinery Company, a factory that produces steel cranes on the Yangtze River about an hour from Shanghai. Every day, before the factory's 7 a.m. shift, members of each team would arrange themselves in straight lines for a pep talk from their foreman.
"I thought it was an interesting moment," Mr. Schifres said, "and I thought, 'I'd like to know more about these people.' "
In January 2011, he received permission to make portraits, shooting 300 workers in five consecutive days, often during their lunch hour. He had hoped to photograph 100 people, "but you convince the foreman," he said, "and then he brings the whole team, and then why would you say no?"
From there, he traveled with a mobile studio to five more factories - one near Hangzhou, the capital of Zhejiang province; one in Yiwu, also in Zhejiang; and three textile factories near Guangzhou, in Guangdong province. He went wherever he was welcomed.
Like the portraits in Richard Avedon's "In the American West," which inspired Mr. Schifres, his photos are stark and simple, generally cropped to focus on the faces. Unlike Avedon's portraits, many of his subjects look content - like Ma Ying and Zou Saihua (Slide 9), a married couple at the crane factory near Shanghai.
Many factories didn't respond well to the unusual request from a foreign photographer. Mr. Schifres's assistant would explain that the project was about daily life, sometimes invoking pride to persuade the factory owners to say yes.
But when they interviewed the workers, the photographer and his team found that the pride was really there.
"The answer was always, 'Oh, we're very proud; we're happy that the products go all around the world,' " Mr. Schifres said. "'This is good for China; this is good for our generation.'"
"They have absolutely no idea about controversies around the world about the Made in China products," he added.
From Zhang Hao, a 16-year-old who was already onto his second job as a manufacturer at a factory in Yiwu (Slide 5), to Wang Jang, a 22-year-old from Chongqing with a 3-year-old daughter (Slide 3), many of the stories followed similar threads. Most of the workers had moved from rural areas to make a better living, hoping to send money home or make a better life for their children. But Mr. Schifres was captivated by the little details.
"They're people, too," he said. "China is not this machine the size of a country that pops out cheap T-shirts without anybody doing it."
Mr. Schifres hopes to show "Made in China" in Shanghai after it shows at Galerie photo12 in Paris, where he lives with his wife. He would like to pursue similar portraiture work elsewhere, following in the footsteps of Sebastião Salgado, who traveled the world for "Workers."
Sometimes, he said, the portraits work. Sometimes they don't. "Sometimes people give more, or people are easier to read," Mr. Schifres said.
In the end, he prefers the portraits that give a glimpse into the life of their subjects.
"Maybe we're fantasizing life stories, and that's not fair," Mr. Schifres said. "But maybe we are right, in a way, because that's what portraits are about - communication between the portrait and a viewer."
 Follow @kerrimac and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Lens is also on Facebook. 

        
China: Up Close, Personal, in Flux
        
Life Along a Road in Tajikistan
        
Quiet, but Telling, Scenes in Pakistan
        
A Chinese Dissident Views New York
        
Ephemeral Paradise, in Medium Format

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); MATERIALS HANDLING EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); TEXTILE MFG (71%); FABRIC MILLS (71%); RELOCATIONS (71%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (71%); TEXTILE MILLS (70%) China; Faces of Made in China; Galerie photo12; In the American West; Kerri MacDonald; Lucas Schifres; Made in China; Factories and Manufacturing; Photography; Showcase

COMPANY: SHANGHAI ZHENHUA HEAVY INDUSTRY CO LTD (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333923 OVERHEAD TRAVELING CRANE, HOIST & MONORAIL SYSTEM MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3537 INDUSTRIAL TRUCKS, TRACTORS, TRAILERS & STACKERS (53%); SIC3536 OVERHEAD TRAVELING CRANES, HOISTS & MONORAIL SYSTEMS (53%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (58%) EAST CHINA (94%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (88%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); YANGTZE RIVER (78%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



358 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: Matters of the Latter Day: Ideas for Addressing Mormonism in the Classroom

BYLINE: ANNISSA HAMBOUZ


HIGHLIGHT: Five ways to examine Mormonism in broader cultural, historical and political contexts with your students. 

 BODY:
 Update | Oct. 10, 2012 
Is the United States experiencing a "Mormon Moment?" The 2012 presidential election is the first in history to see a Mormon candidate - the Republican nominee Mitt Romney - on a major party's ballot, and Mormons have been the subject of numerous news stories, documentaries and even a popular Broadway musical. 
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, as the Mormon Church is officially called, is the second fastest growing religion in the United States and expanding rapidly worldwide. Yet, despite the recent surge in media interest and coverage, Mormonism remains one of the least understood and most debated religions in the United States.
Because issues of personal faith and religious identity may be too sensitive to address in the classroom, we offer the following five ways to examine Mormonism in broader cultural, historical and political contexts with your students. 
 Trace the History of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints 
What are the origins of the Mormon Church? Under what circumstances did the Latter Day Saint Movement emerge, and how did it compare to other new American religious movements of the early 19th century? What are some of the basic doctrines of the religion and how have they changed over time? How has the faith spread throughout the world, and where are the largest Mormon populations today? 
The New York Times article "Mormons' First Families Rally Behind Romney" connects the early days of the church to today's political climate, while another recent article, "The Mormon Lens on American History," describes how Mormon history and scholarship are gaining academic popularity. You may also wish to check out articles from the Times archives, like "Smith's Mormon Bible: The Story of Its Finding Told by a Contemporary of the Prophet" (PDF) from 1895, and from across the Web, including the official site of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, and the site for the PBS "Frontline" documentary, "The Mormons."
Students can create a written guide or timeline, intended to educate their peers on the history of the religion. 
 Investigate the Contemporary Controversies Surrounding the Mormon Church 
Why is the church the object of mockery, debate and even condemnation by so many? What positions and practices are at the heart of contemporary controversies? Or, as two history professors asked, "What makes Mormons such a juicy target?" 
In its "Room for Debate" series, The New York Times poses the question, "What Is It About the Mormons?" You might also compare and discuss different Op-Eds related to Mormons, like "Why I Love Mormonism,""Why We Fear Mormons,""Equal Rights, Gay Rights and the Mormon Church,""Anne Frank, A Mormon?" and "Why Evangelicals Don't Like Mormons."
Additionally, you might also read about the fifth-generation Mormon blogger who came under scrutiny for raising hot-button questions about Mormon history and traditions about the church on his Web site, MormonThink. Or, consider some of the latest statistics about the public perception of Mormons. 
Students can write argument essays drawing on the positions presented in any of the "Room for Debate" or Opinion pieces they have read.
 Analyze the Portrayal of Mormons in Popular Culture 
How are Mormons portrayed in the culture at large? In the past decade, Mormons have been the subject of a best-selling book, a television series and a wildly popular Broadway musical. 
Students read and discuss reviews (or write their own), compare and contrast how Mormons are portrayed in popular culture (or, alternately, how they are portrayed compared with other religious groups), and analyze the church's own "I'm a Mormon" advertising campaign. They might create a visual presentation, like a Glog, to reflect their observations. 
 Explore the Role of Youth in the Mormon Church 
What's the relationship between the church and its young followers? What roles do youth missionaries play? What's life like for young adult Mormons? 
Examine youth missions - an important component of the Mormon Church. As the article "At 19, from Utah to Uganda," and its accompanying photo slide show explain, young men are expected to take up evangelism on their 19th birthday and many Mormon college students pause their studies to serve in missions. What type of training is involved? How do young missionaries engage with the local communities at their destinations?
You might also take a look at how the image of the clean-cut young Mormon is changing. "To Be Young, Hip and Mormon" addresses the expanding boundaries of Mormon style. How do young Mormons reconcile creative self-expression and the social pressure to party with church guidelines? How are famous followers of the faith, like electronic music whiz Kaskade and "Twilight" series author Stephenie Meyer challenging the public perception of what it means to be Mormon? 
Students write essays reflecting on the preservation of religious values in the face of modernity or exploring the ways youth challenge longstanding traditions.
 Examine the Intersection of Faith and Politics 
What role does Mitt Romney's faith play in his bid for the presidency? How, if at all, does the discussion surrounding his religion differ from questions of past candidates' religious beliefs (for example, President Obama's relationship to his former pastor; George W. Bush's evangelism; John F. Kennedy's Catholicism)? Why has Mr. Romney chosen not to address his faith to any significant extent, when so many past candidates have relied on their religious credentials to garner support? And, finally, what influence might Mr. Romney's faith have on voters in places like Idaho, Nevada and Utah in the 2012 presidential election? 
Students read and respond to the "Room for Debate" feature, "Are Republicans Ready Now for a Mormon President?" or further contextualize Mr. Romney's candidacy by investigating the role of religion throughout U.S. presidential election history.
Common Core ELA Anchor Standards, 6-12
 Reading 
1. Read closely to determine what the text says explicitly and to make logical inferences from it; cite specific textual evidence when writing or speaking to support conclusions drawn from the text.
6. Assess how point of view or purpose shapes the content and style of a text.
7. Integrate and evaluate content presented in diverse formats and media, including visually and quantitatively, as well as in words.
8. Delineate and evaluate the argument and specific claims in a text, including the validity of the reasoning as well as the relevance and sufficiency of the evidence.
9. Analyze how two or more texts address similar themes or topics in order to build knowledge or to compare the approaches the authors take.
 Writing 
2. Write informative/explanatory texts to examine and convey complex ideas and information clearly and accurately through the effective selection, organization and analysis of content.
4. Produce clear and coherent writing in which the development, organization and style are appropriate to task, purpose and audience.
7. Conduct short as well as more sustained research projects based on focused questions, demonstrating understanding of the subject under investigation.
9. Draw evidence from literary or informational texts to support analysis, reflection and research.
 Speaking and Listening 
2. Integrate and evaluate information presented in diverse media and formats, including visually, quantitatively and orally.
3. Evaluate a speaker's point of view, reasoning, and use of evidence and oratory.
4. Present information, findings and supporting evidence such that listeners can follow the line of reasoning and the organization, development and style are appropriate to task, purpose and audience.
5. Make strategic use of digital media and visual displays of data to express information and enhance understanding of presentations.
McREL Standards
 Civics 
11. Understands the role of diversity in American life and the importance of shared values, political beliefs and civic beliefs in an increasingly diverse American society
28. Understands how participation in civic and political life can help citizens attain individual and public goals
 United States History 
31. Understands economic, social, and cultural developments in the contemporary United States

        
Secretly-Recorded Video Stirs Political Debate
        
Romney's Speech Caps Republican Convention
        
Romney Chooses His Running Mate
        
Three Key States, Split Evenly
        
Vice-Presidential Speculation

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (99%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (96%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); HISTORY (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); MUSICAL THEATER (56%); LGBT RIGHTS (50%) mitt romney; Mormons; American History; Culture and Identity; Lesson Plans; Social Studies; Westward Expansion

ORGANIZATION: THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (92%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



359 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: The Movement to Put Utility Payments on Credit Reports

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Reporting utility payments to credit bureaus may not help low-income consumers with little data on their credit reports. 

 BODY:
It sounds like a good way to help consumers who lack full credit reports, or any credit report at all: Report their utility payments to credit bureaus, to help them develop credit files.
Currently, most gas and electric utilities don't report most consumer payments to credit bureaue. They typically report only extremely delinquent accounts that they have written off as uncollectable, rather than those that are merely late or those that are paid on time.
But proponents of full utility reporting argue that giving consumers credit for on-time payments can help them develop a credit file and a credit score, which can be key to economic advancement. Supporters include United States Representative Jim Renacci, who has co-sponsored a bill (H.R. 6363) that he says promotes reporting of on-time utility payments. "Those who have yet to gain credit should be able to use all of the tools available to them to establish their credit worthiness," he said in a statement announcing the measure.
The problem, a group of consumer advocates say, is that broader reporting of utility payments to credit bureaus may actually hurt the records of lower-income consumers, who are more likely to pay bills like those for gas and electric service late as they struggle to make ends meet. The advocates, led by the National Consumer Law Center, outlined their concerns recently in testimonybefore Congress and in a letterto Mr. Renacci.
The concern, says John Howat, a lawyer with the consumer law center, is that there is a gap between the number of accounts that are just in arrears, but that are likely to eventually be paid, and those that are written off as not collectible. If those accounts that are simply late were to be reported too, they would likely have a negative effect on the consumer's credit.
"The number of accounts that are written off and stay disconnected is tiny, compared to the number where they're a little bit late," he said, citing in part an analysis of publicly available utility data from the state of Iowa.
(While proponents of the bill argue that it gives credit for on-time payments, Mr. Howat says the bill's language, which would amend the Fair Credit Reporting Act, doesn't restrict the additional reporting to "positive" payments, but would allow reporting of late payments, too.)
Lower-income people, especially those in areas where bills fluctuate greatly from season to season, are more likely to get behind on their bills, Mr. Howat said. Most states have restrictions preventing utility shutoff for bills that are in arrears.
People in the Northeast, for instance, may fall behind in the winter, but then they catch up on payments when the weather warms and their monthly bills drop. "Particularly in households where there isn't enough income, for a whole range of reasons, to pay for necessities, they may be a little bit late but they do ultimately catch up," he said.
The center wouldn't oppose offering full utility reporting on an optional basis, he said. "If the objective is really to build credit histories for people who have no file, or thin files, let them opt in," he said.
Would you opt-in to having all of your utility payments reported to credit bureaus? Do you think it would help or hurt your credit score?

        
Free Advice From Financial Planners in October
        
The Annual Health Benefits Gamble
        
Your Hazy Future Is No Excuse for a Lack of Planning
        
A Tool for Comparing Post-Law School Prospects
        
Delta Cracks Down on Mileage Tracking Sites

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (92%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%) Budgeting; Credit Scores; National Consumer Law Center; United States

COMPANY: CONSUMER LAW CENTER (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONSUMER LAW CENTER (82%) National Consumer Law Center

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (66%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (66%)

PERSON: JIM RENACCI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



360 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: The Domino Theory, Redux

BYLINE: MARK BITTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: A California city (or two) might be the first to institute a soda tax. 

 BODY:
Imagine you had a multibillion-dollar industry that was (a) enormously profitable and (b) under frequent attack from public health researchers because (c) it's demonstrably bad for the health of your customers.
This was, of course, the story of the tobacco industry, and it is - right now - the story of the sugar-sweetened beverage industry.[1] Like the cigarette makers, the peddlers of soda cannot do much about any of this: they owe it to their shareholders to maintain those profits, and the products they sell evidently cannot, no matter how hard they try, be tinkered with to change factors (b) and (c). [2]
Even if the beverage industry were composed of the nicest people in the world, it will not stop marketing to children unless it's made to; indeed, these marketing efforts are within the rules of the game, however deadly they may be. The outcome of those rules and the marketing they allow is pandemic obesity and all the costs associated with it, which have been detailed enough elsewhere to pass over here.
The goal of right-thinking people, then, is to change the rules and somehow make it more difficult for the marketers to do their job. This can be done by legislation, executive mandate or - in some places, like California - referendum. Legislation to impose a significant tax on soda - a penny or even two per ounce - has failed everywhere, though it's come close, especially in Philadelphia. After failing to pass legislation for a soda tax, Mayor Michael Bloomberg proposed (and will evidently institute, five months from now) a ban on large sizes of soda in many New York City places.
Now the California cities of Richmond and El Montehave put the soda tax - which has been endorsed by the United Nations, the American Heart Association, the American Medical Association, The New England Journal of Medicine, the Institute of Medicine and many others, and which the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention commissioner, Thomas Frieden, has called"the single most effective measure to reverse the obesity epidemic" - on the Nov. 6 ballot.
Both of these are working-class, largely nonwhite cities, with populations of about 100,000. Richmond [3] , ranked sixth-most-obese city in the state, is in the East Bay, north of Berkeley; El Monte - which ranks ninth - is just east of Los Angeles, in the I-10 corridor.[4] Were either to institute a soda tax, the prediction here is that some or even many nearby cities would follow suit quickly, for two reasons. The first, almost immediate, is that these nearly broke municipalities would each gain a new source of income that could, according to the soda tax calculatordeveloped by the economist Tatiana Andreyeva of the Rudd Center in New Haven, be about $3 million annually . [5]
The cities must decide how to spend these small windfalls. Dr. Jeff Ritterman, a retired cardiologist serving on the Richmond City Council, says that "for $86,000 we can teach every third grader how to swim at one of our municipal pools, and for $800,000 we can put a nutrition-gardening-cooking instructor in each of our 10 elementary schools."
The longer-term benefit, which may take a year, or three, or even five to become evident and accepted, is health. Studies have shown that reduced soda consumption results in reduced weight. How quickly and how significantly a soda tax would reduce consumption remains to be seen. But without this kind of intervention, says Ritterman, "Our adult obesity rate will go from 24 percent to 42 percent when the present fifth and seventh graders reach adulthood."
There's a third reason other cities will follow suit, and that's reputation. As a local observer said to me, "You don't think San Francisco is going to be out-done by Richmond, do you?"
For all of these reasons, the first city to institute a soda tax will gain historic relevance and begin a kind of domino effect that proponents of public health can get behind. But it's not going to happen without a struggle; remember, the beverage industry has no choice.
And while the proponents of the tax are largely volunteers, public health proponents and well-intentioned politicians (not an oxymoron!), the beverage industry has the bucks, and is spending them at a rate of about 100 to 1, in Richmond, at least: according to Ritterman, as of last week the industry had spent $2.2 million getting out the "no" vote; supporters had raised $34,000 and spent $29,000. [6]
Though Ritterman is optimistic ("We're going to win because truth and science are on our side"), El Monte's mayor, Andre Quintero, is more cautious: "The industry is spending very aggressively here: they have every single possible tool you can imagine having at their disposal." [7] El Monte, also, is a small city of less than 10 square miles, so businessmen argue that it's easy for their customers to leave to buy soda (or to eat, and order soda with a meal) in a neighboring town. "But," says Quintero, "even making that conscious decision - I'm going to step out of the boundary to get my sugary drinks - is going to work on the person and make them think, Is this a choice I really need to make?"
That's the spirit: changing the rules to give people a reason to think, to consider, should change their behavior. The New York experiment may be effective, but most experts believe a tax is the way to go. Whether it's Richmond, El Monte, both, or someplace else, the first city to institute a soda tax will be the first domino to fall and eventually gain the gratitude of the rest of the country.
1. I'll just call this "soda" from now on, but equally culpable are sugar-sweetened iced teas, so-called fruit juices, so-called sports drinks, so-called energy drinks, sweetened waters, coffee drinks with a calorie content like that of a banana split and anything else that has more sugar than you could ever imagine pouring into a cup of coffee. Just FYI, a 12-ounce soda contains up to 10 teaspoons of sugar; 12 ounces of Snapple is about the same; in fairness, Gatorade has "only" a little more than half as much sugar as that. A "tall" Frappuccino, by the way, contains 8 teaspoons of sugar.
2.This isn't a matter of building safer cars and putting seat belts in them, or of engineering cell phones so they won't receive texts while you're driving (that'll happen). At some point a wildly popular and safe substitute for sugar may be found, but at some point a safe cigarette might be invented, or indeed a pill that will allow you to eat supersized cheeseburgers, fries and cokes twice a day, and not gain a pound. The winning ticket in those lotteries is worth billions if not trillions of dollars, and "they're" working on it, but "they're" working on energy from fusion, too.
3. Home of Rosie the Riveter National Park!
4. El Monte is one of those rare cities that actually has a municipal health and wellness plan, and it recently banned sodas from its park and recreation facilities.
5. The same calculator tells us that a penny-per-ounce tax in Los Angeles would reap more than $113 million in its first year.
6. A measure to force those working against the tax to disclose their funding sources was passed by the city council and successfully challenged by the industry.
7.This includes referring to the soda tax as if it were a grocery tax, implying that soda = food, which it decidedly does not. See my column, What Is Food?

        
Things I Saw - No. 36
        
Things I Saw - No. 35
        
Things I Saw - No. 34
        
Things I Saw - No. 32
        
G.M.O.'s: Let's Label 'Em

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (91%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (91%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (91%); BEVERAGE MFG (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); OBESITY (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); EPIDEMICS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (77%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (74%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (73%); TOBACCO MFG (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); YOUTH MARKET (68%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (68%); REFERENDUMS (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%) California; soda tax; sugar-sweetened beverages; Bloomberg, Michael R; Frieden, Thomas R; Law and Legislation; Obesity; Soft Drinks; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; Snapple Beverage Corp; Richmond (Calif); Mark Bittman

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (84%) Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; Snapple Beverage Corp

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (67%) Bloomberg, Michael R; Frieden, Thomas R

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) California; Richmond (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2012



361 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Q&A: Understanding the Fiscal Cliff

BYLINE: JONATHAN WEISMAN


HIGHLIGHT: A primer on the so-called fiscal cliff, including a breakdown of the tax cuts that could expire and the programs that could be affected. 

 BODY:
 Updated Nov. 14, 2012 
 In the first two days of 2013, large tax cuts passed in 2001 and 2003 will expire and across-the-board cuts to defense and nondefense programs in the government will begin a drastic and sudden hit to the economy - a so-called fiscal cliff - that both parties say could be damaging to the unsteady recovery. Here is a primer on the tax increases and program cuts and their potential impact on the economy.
 Q. 
 How large are the prospective tax increases and spending cuts? 
 A. 
 Almost everyone who pays taxes would see a hit to take-home pay in the first paycheck of January. The lowest income tax rate would rise to 15 percent from 10 percent. The highest rate would rise to 39.6 percent from 35 percent. The 25 percent, 28 percent, and 33 percent rates would rise to 28 percent, 31 percent and 36 percent respectively. Most capital gains taxes would rise to 20 percent from 15 percent. The tax rate on dividends, now set at 15 percent, would jump to ordinary income tax rates, and since most dividend taxes are paid by the wealthy, that would mean a new dividend tax rate of 39.6 percent. The exemption on taxation of inherited estates would drop to $1 million from $5 million. The tax rate above that exemption would jump to 55 percent from 35 percent. 
Even many of the working poor who do not earn enough to face such taxes would take a hit when a temporary, two-percentage-point cut to the payroll tax that funds Social Security and Medicare expires on Jan. 1. In all, taxes would rise by as much as $6 trillion over 10 years, $347 billion in 2013 alone, if the Bush-era tax cuts expire along with the payroll tax cut, and Congress fails to deal with the expanding alternative minimum tax, according to the Congressional Budget Office and Decision Economics Inc., a private economic forecaster.
On the spending side, most defense programs would be sliced by 9.4 percent. Most nondefense programs outside the big entitlements - Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid - would be cut by 8.2 percent. Medicare would be trimmed by 2 percent. Social Security, veterans benefits, military personnel, Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program would be exempt. 
 Q. 
 What would the economic impact be? 
 A. 
Most economists and the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office predict that if nothing is done, the twin impacts of broad tax increases and across-the-board spending cuts would send the economy back into recession. The 2013 impact alone - about $600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts - exceeds the projected growth of the gross domestic product. The Bipartisan Policy Center estimates that the cuts - called sequestration - could cost one million jobs in 2013 and 2014.
The Congressional Budget Office projected that real economic growth would decline at an annual rate of 2.9 percent during the first half of 2013. Unemployment would rise to 9.1 percent by the end of next year.
 Q. 
 How did we get here? 
 A. 
 President George W. Bush and Republicans in Congress could not muster the 60 votes in the Senate to pass Mr. Bush's initial 10-year, $1.7 trillion tax cut in 2001, so they used a parliamentary tool called reconciliation to pass the tax cuts with a simple Senate majority of 51 votes. The catch was that this meant the tax cuts would expire after the 10-year budget window closed in 2011. In 2003, when Mr. Bush went back for another round of tax cuts, Republicans in Congress again used reconciliation to avoid a Democratic filibuster and maximized the initial size of the tax cuts by having them expire at the same time as the first tax cuts, in 2011.
After the 2010 elections, President Obama struck a deal with Republicans to extend the tax cuts for another two years, as well as add other tax measures, like the payroll tax cut, to help the economy. Now that extension is ending.
The across-the-board cuts are more complicated. The newly elected Republican House in 2011 refused to raise the debt ceiling, the nation's statutory borrowing limit, without legislation guaranteeing that the increase would be at least matched by deficit reduction. Congress and the White House agreed to spending caps that shaved about $1 trillion off projected growth over 10 years. They also created a special, bipartisan deficit reduction committee to find another $1.2 trillion in savings over 10 years. If that effort failed, savings would be guaranteed by automatic cuts to both defense and nondefense programs beginning in 2013. The so-called supercommittee failed, and the government is now staring at the consequences.
 Q. 
 How do we get out of it? 
 A. 
 Some fledgling bipartisan talks have begun with an eye toward staving off the fiscal cliff after the election but before Jan. 1. The so-called Gang of Six searching for a deal includes Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the second-ranking Senate Democrat; Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, the Budget Committee chairman; and Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, and three Republican senators, Tom Coburn of Oklahoma, Mike Crapo of Idaho and Saxby Chambliss of Georgia. In addition, Senators Michael Bennet, Democrat of Colorado, and Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, are trying to negotiate a framework moving forward that would set up a deficit reduction outline, instruct Congressional committees to make it real in six months, then punt the spending cuts and tax increases into next year.
Most of these negotiations accept that savings would have to come from entitlement programs like Social Security and Medicare, and an overhaul of the tax code that raises revenue by closing loopholes and curtails or ends tax deductions and credits. Most Republicans and some Democrats say they can generate additional revenue that way and still lower tax rates across the board.
The leadership is more hesitant. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, and Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the third-ranking Democrat in the Senate, both say they want a sweeping deficit deal in the coming lame duck session of Congress to avert the cliff. But Mr. Schumer says he will not accept any deal that cuts the top income tax rates for the rich. The House speaker, John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, says he will not accept any deal that raises tax rates for the rich beyond the current Bush-era levels.
 Q. 
 Where is President Obama on all of this? 
 A. 
 Mr. Obama has said he will not sign any bill that extends the tax cuts for the rich but wants legislation that extends the tax cuts for families earning $250,000 or less. That alone would be enough to mitigate the economic impact of the fiscal cliff. He also opposes across-the-board spending cuts, but says there should be no "easy off-ramp," that is, he will not sign legislation simply canceling the cuts unless Congress comes up with a plan for deficit reduction at least equal to $1.2 trillion. Mr. Obama's budget foresees about $4 trillion in deficit reduction over the next decade: $1 trillion already locked in with the 2011 Budget Control Act; about $1.5 trillion in additional revenues, largely from allowing tax cuts for the rich to expire; and another $1.5 trillion in additional savings. He has signaled he will accept changes to Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid as part of that last portion of savings. Republicans complain that Mr. Obama has not forcefully led his party to a deficit deal.

        
Can Tax Cuts Pay for Themselves?
        
Delegating Economic Policy to the Technocrats, and Away from Democracy
        
How to Raise Revenue Without Violating the Tax Pledge
        
The Bush Tax Cuts and the Deficit
        
Why Would a Fiscal Commission Work This Time?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MILITARY BENEFITS (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); RECESSION (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); CORPORATE TAX (75%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (73%); VETERANS (72%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (60%); MEDICAID (57%); ARMED FORCES (50%) Federal Budget (US); United States Politics and Government

COMPANY: DECISION ECONOMICS INC (64%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2012



362 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: Oct. 8: A Great Poll for Romney, in Perspective

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney gained further ground in the FiveThirtyEight forecast on Monday, but much of the increase was because of a single poll. 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney gained further ground in the FiveThirtyEight forecast on Monday, with his chances of winning the Electoral College increasing to 25.2 percent from 21.6 percent on Sunday. 
The change represents a continuation of the recent trend: Mr. Romney's chances were down to just 13.9 percent immediately in advance of last week's debate in Denver. He has nearly doubled his chances since then.
But the gains that he made on Monday in particular were all because of a single poll.
We'll talk about that poll -- a Pew Research poll that gave Mr. Romney a 4-point lead among likely voters -- in a moment. But let's first consider the day's worth of polling without it, which was pretty mixed for Mr. Romney.
The most unfavorable numbers for Mr. Romney came in the national tracking polls published by Gallup and Rasmussen Reports. Both showed the race trending slightly toward President Obama, who increased his lead from 3 points to 5 points in the Gallup poll, and pulled into a tie after having trailed by 2 points in the Rasmussen survey.
In both cases, the numbers looked more like pre-debate data than the stronger numbers that Mr. Romney has been receiving since then. On average between the Democratic convention and the debate, the Rasmussen poll showed Mr. Obama with a 0.7-point lead (the Rasmussen poll is Republican-leaning relative to the consensus), while the Gallup poll had Mr. Obama ahead by an average of 3.4 points.
A third national tracking poll, an online tracking poll published by the RAND Corporation, showed essentially no change from Sunday. All of this seemed to be consistent with a story in which Mr. Romney's debate bounce was receding some. (A fourth tracking poll, from Ipsos, had not been published as of the time we ran our forecast on Monday.) 
The swing state polls published on Monday might best be described as being OK for Mr. Obama. He led in polls of Colorado, Iowa, Pennsylvania and Virginia, and in two polls of Michigan. In all cases, Mr. Obama's lead was small. However, this particular group of pollsters had shown reasonably unfavorable numbers for Mr. Obama in the same states before. Three of the polls actually moved toward Mr. Obama from the numbers that the same polling firms had published before the debates. 
There are a few polls that I've left out of the discussion here -- a George Washington University survey for Politico, for example, showed just a 1-point lead for Mr. Obama, even though most of its interviews were conducted before the debate. That was a strong poll for Mr. Romney.
But were it not for the Pew poll, our forecast would have been unchanged from Monday, with Mr. Romney's chances holding at 21.6 percent.
The Pew poll, however, may well be the single best polling result that Mr. Romney has seen all year. It comes from a strong polling firm, and had a reasonably large sample size. Just as important is the trendline. Pew's polls have been Democratic-leaning relative to the consensus this year; its last poll, for instance, had Mr. Obama 8 points ahead among likely voters. So this represents a very sharp reversal.
One line of complaint about the poll has come from Democrats, who noted that the poll showed more Republicans than Democrats in its sample -- unlike most other recent surveys.
I feel the same way about this critique that I do when it comes from Republicans -- which is to say I don't think very much of it. As The Washington Post's Jon Cohen notes, party identification is fluid rather than fixed, and can change in reaction to political and news events. If voters are feeling better about Mr. Romney after the debates, they might also be inclined to identify themselves to pollsters as Republicans.
It is probably also the case that Republicans won't actually have a 5-point party identification advantage in the exit poll on Election Day. But it isn't the pollster's job to project what will happen on Nov. 6. (That's my job, instead!) Rather, the pollster's job is to take the most accurate snapshot of the electorate at the time the poll is conducted. Note that the Rasmussen Reports polls, which (improperly, in my view) adjust for party identification, show very little bounce for Mr. Romney. The party-identification adjustment is causing them to miss the story of the election -- just as they were largely missing the story of Mr. Obama's bounce following his convention.
There are two smarter questions to ask about the Pew poll. First, is it really likely that Mr. Romney leads the race by 4 points right now? The consensus of the evidence, particularly the national tracking polls, would suggest otherwise. Instead, the forecast model's conclusion is that the whole of the data is still consistent with a very narrow lead for Mr. Obama, albeit one that is considerably diminished since Denver. 
It might be granted that the situation is more ambiguous than usual right now. But our forecast model looks at literally all of the polls; it estimates Mr. Romney's post-debate bounce as being 2.5 percentage points, not quite enough to erase Mr. Obama's pre-debate advantage. 
The other valid line of inquiry concerns the timing of the poll. The Pew poll was conducted from Thursday through Sunday, although more of the interviews were conducted in the earlier part of that period. There's nothing in the poll that really refutes the story that Mr. Romney initially received a very large bounce after the debate (perhaps somewhere on the order of 4 or 5 points, if not quite as large as Pew shows it), which has since faded some between the news cycle turning over and the favorable jobs report on Friday. 
The evidence that Mr. Romney's bounce is receding some is only modestly strong -- as opposed to the evidence that he got a significant bounce in the first place, which is very strong. Still, the order in which polls are published does not exactly match the order in which they were actually conducted -- and at turning points in the race, these details can make a difference.
The last thing to consider is that the fundamentals of the race aren't consistent with a 4-point lead for Mr. Romney. Instead, the most recent economic numbers, and Mr. Obama's approval ratings, would seem to point to an election in which he is the slight favorite. We don't use approval ratings in our forecast, but we do use the economic data, and both the monthly payrolls report and the broader FiveThirtyEight economic index would point toward an election in which Mr. Obama is favored in the popular vote by around 2.5 percentage points.
There is a fair amount of uncertainty in this calculation: models that claim to achieve exceptionally precise results based on economic data alone have not always lived up to their billing -- so a forecast based on the economic index alone would have Mr. Obama as only a 60 or 65 percent favorite, hardly a sure thing. (In Mr. Obama's case, much of the downside risk would come from the potential for a poor Democratic turnout.) And our forecast model weights the economic factors less and less as time goes on.
Still, the economic component of the model still has some influence on the model (it accounts for about 25 percent of the forecast for the time being). Just as the economic component was causing the model to adjust Mr. Obama's numbers downward during the height of his convention bounce, the same consideration will help Mr. Obama slightly if he starts to see more results like the Pew poll. 
This technique has produced a very stable forecast over the whole of the year: since we began to publish the model in the spring, the projected Nov. 6 result has varied only between a 1.6-point win for Mr. Obama in the national popular vote and a 4.3-point edge. 
That's not to say the model weights all the polls equally: high-quality national polls have an especially big influence on the trendlines that we estimate. Hence, Mr. Romney's odds of winning the Electoral College increased by more than 3 percent on the basis of the Pew poll alone; I doubt that any other individual poll has had as much influence on the forecast.
But it's one thing to give a poll a lot of weight, and another to become so enthralled with it that you dismiss all other evidence. If you can trust yourself to take the polls in stride, then I would encourage you to do so. If your impression of the race is changing radically every few minutes, however, then you're best off looking at the forecasts and projections that we and ourcompetitors publish, along with Vegas betting lines and prediction markets. 
All of these methods have slightly different ways of accounting for new information, but they do involve people who are risking either money or reputation to get it right, and who have systematic ways to weigh the evidence rather than doing so on an ad hoc basis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); TRENDS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (65%) Romney, Mitt; Polls and Public Opinion; Pew Research Center; projection update

COMPANY: RAND CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: Pew Research Center

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (88%) COLORADO, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



363 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: Julius Baer to Cut 1,000 Jobs After Deal for Bank of America Unit

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: The Swiss bank plans to eliminate up to 18 percent of its work force to cut costs after it struck a deal in August with Bank of America to buy the American bank's private banking operations outside the United States and Japan. 

 BODY:
LONDON -- The Swiss bank Julius Baer announced on Tuesday that it would eliminate about 1,000 jobs to reduce costs. 
In August, Julius Baer reached a deal with Bank of America Merrill Lynch to buy its private banking operations outside the United States and Japan for around $880 million. As part of its plan to integrate the business, Julius Baer said it now expected to reduce the bank's combined 5,700 work force by 15 to 18 percent.
The layoffs, which could total 1,026 staff members, are expected to begin after the deal closes early next year.
 The deal for the Bank of America unit is part of Julius Baer's expansion into new markets as it looks to keep pace with Swiss rivals including UBS and Credit Suisse.
The acquisition would give Julius Baer up to an additional $74 billion of assets, which primarily come from wealthy clients in developing economies.
"This acquisition brings us a major step forward in our growth strategy and will considerably strengthen Julius Baer's leading position in global private banking by adding a new dimension not only to growth markets but also to Europe," the company's chief executive, Boris Collardi, said in August.
The expected job cuts are an effort to reduce costs at the new unit, which reported a $30 million net loss in the first half of the year, according to an investor presentation released on Tuesday.
Julius Baer also said on Tuesday that its total assets under management as of Aug. 31 had risen 8 percent, to 184 billion Swiss francs ($196 billion), since the end of 2011.
Shares in Julius Baer fell less than 1 percent in morning trading in Zurich on Tuesday.

        
Investors' Billion-Dollar Fraud Fighter

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PRIVATE BANKING (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (54%) Bank of America Corporation; Julius Baer Holding AG; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Zurich (Switzerland); Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (93%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); JULIUS BAER GROUP LTD (92%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation; Julius Baer Holding AG

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); BAER (SWX) (92%); CSGN (SWX) (90%); CS (NYSE) (90%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (88%) JAPAN (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%) Zurich (Switzerland)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



364 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Partisan Bias and Economic Forecasts

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: Economists belonging to a political party often produce forecasts suiting the party's needs, and that is especially evident now among Republicans, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
There is a well-known tendency in sports for referees to tilt their calls in favor of the home team. The same thing happens in other areas of life as well, such as economic forecasting. This week's Economist magazine, for example, notes sharp differences in the current outlook between Republican and Democratic economists.
Economists belonging to a particular political party often produce forecasts that tend to suit the needs of their party. This is especially evident right now in the case of Republican economists, who appear to have decided that the best way they can help Mitt Romney is by predicting a recession next year.
I first noticed this trend on Sept. 27, when the former Reuters and U.S. News columnist James Pethokoukis, now employed by the conservative American Enterprise Institute, said that the United States economy was "running out of steam" and that there was now a 50 percent chance of a recession within a year. "It may be several years before we see unemployment below 8 percent," he said in a post on the A.E.I. Web site.
On Friday, the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced that the unemployment rate in September was 7.8 percent. 
On Sept. 29, the former Bear Stearns economist David Malpass, who ran for the Republican nomination for the United States Senate from New York in 2010, took a similarly bearish view in an article on The Wall Street Journal's editorial page. Current economic data, he said, "point to a recession in 2013."
On Oct. 1, Brian Wesbury, formerly an economist on the Republican staff of the Joint Economic Committee of Congress (as was I in the early 1980s) and now chief economist for First Trust, raised the risk of a recession to 25 percent in his weekly client letter, saying, "the odds of a downturn are no longer very slim." He attributed the rising recession risk to "uncertainty," which is the principal explanation for slow growth offered by Mr. Romney's economic advisers in an Aug. 7white paper.
Also on Oct. 1, the Forbes columnist Charles Kadlec said, "The U.S. economy has now slipped into a growth recession," adding, "The economy is on a downward trajectory." Steve Forbes, the chairman and editor in chief of Forbes Media, ran for the Republican presidential nomination in 1996 and 2000.
The former U.S. Chamber of Commerce chief economist Richard Rahn, an adviser to the George H.W. Bush campaign in 1988, jumped on the recession bandwagon in a column on Oct. 1 for the right-wing Washington Times. It is "almost a certainty," he said, if Barack Obama is re-elected, "unemployment will not fall, many more businesses will downsize or go bankrupt" and "the economy will stagnate."
I can't say for certain that these economists are wrong, but it is worth noting that both Mr. Malpass and Mr. Wesbury take part in The Wall Street Journal's survey of economic forecasters. In July, Mr. Malpass was predicting 2 percent real gross domestic product growth in 2012 and 3 percent in both 2013 and 2014. Mr. Wesbury was predicting 2.4 percent real growth in 2012, 3.4 percent in 2013 and 3.5 percent in 2014. As recently as The Journal's September survey, Mr. Wesbury was predicting 2.3 percent real growth in 2012, 2.9 percent in 2013 and 3 percent in 2014. Mr. Malpass did not take part.
The average forecast for all economists surveyed by The Journal in September was 1.9 percent real G.D.P. growth in 2012, 2.4 percent in 2013 and 2.9 percent in 2014. These numbers are similar to those in the latest survey of professional forecasters by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia in August. It reported the median estimate for real G.D.P. growth in 2012 as 2.2 percent, 2.1 percent in 2013 and 2.7 percent in 2014.
None of the economists surveyed has predicted even a single quarter of negative real growth within the forecast window. Typically, a recession requires two back-to-back quarters of negative real growth.
In an Oct. 1 blog post, the University of Wisconsin economist Menzie Chinn pointed out that two of the economists cited above were well off the mark in our last presidential election year. He pointed to a June 16, 2008, Pethokoukis column in which he was adamant that the United States was not going into a recession. Mr. Pethokoukis quoted Mr. Malpass for support.
I would further note that on Jan. 28, 2008, Mr. Wesbury published an article on The Wall Street Journal's editorial page pooh-poohing the idea that a recession was anywhere on the horizon. He thought it highly unlikely that a financial crisis could set off a severe downturn in the real economy.
The financial system "is not as fragile as many pundits suggest," Mr. Wesbury wrote. The "current red alert about a crashing house of cards looks like another false alarm." He concluded by saying, "Dow 15,000 looks much more likely than Dow 10,000." That day, the Dow closed at 12,384. It hit a low of 6,547 a little over a year later on March 9, 2009, and has yet to reach 15,000.
Of course, the George W. Bush administration's party line in 2008 was that there was no recession on its watch. Edward Lazear, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, said on May 7, 2008: "The data are pretty clear that we are not in a recession." In its mid-session budget review on July 30, 2008, the Bush administration predicted real growth of 1.6 percent in 2008 and 2.2 percent in 2009. Actual growth was negative in both years.
According to the National Bureau of Economic Research, official arbiter of recession dates, a recession in fact began in December 2007 and lasted through June 2009. Thus we were already into a recession when Messrs. Lazear, Wesbury, Pethokoukis and Malpass said that none was anywhere in sight.
I don't mean to pick on these particular economists for having made a really bad call in 2008. They were hardly alone. But I do believe that bias toward what was best for their party, the Republican Party, unquestionably contributed to their forecast errors. I suggest that partisan bias may be a factor in their forecast of an impending recession now. Time will tell.

        
Republicans Champion 'Voluntary Taxes'
        
Republicans Are Wrong on Call for Gold Standard
        
Blaming Obama for George W. Bush's Policies
        
The Fiscal Legacy of George W. Bush
        
The Origin of Modern Republican Fiscal Policy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TRENDS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); WRITERS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); STATISTICS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%) Bruce Bartlett; Daily Economist; Economists; Forecasts; Republicans; Economic Conditions and Trends; Economics (Theory and Philosophy); United States Economy; Republican Party; Today's Economist

COMPANY: FORBES INC (64%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%) Republican Party

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (64%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



365 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1868 words

HEADLINE: A Tax Too High

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Wall Street doesn't exactly love the idea of higher taxes, but a proposal in France looks much scarier than anything being discussed here. | A report on the global banking industry suggests that some lenders may be forced to put themselves up for sale. | Ireland is close to passing a law that could help struggling homeowners. | Max W. Berger, the plaintiffs lawyer, isn't celebrating his six major securities class-action settlements. 

 BODY:
A Tax Too High | 
Wall Street doesn't exactly love the idea of higher taxes. But a proposal in France looks much scarier than anything being discussed in this country: a 75 percent marginal tax rate on all income over $1.3 million, with capital gains taxes as high as 60 percent.
This was not what French executives were expecting when they signed a petition asking for higher taxes (yes, higher taxes), and now many are "crying foul," writes Andrew Ross Sorkin in the DealBook column. "The idea of soaking the rich is often a popular one. But if there is lesson in the French experience, despite the economic models, it is that there are limits."
Another Gloomy Forecast for Banks | It's already bad, and it could get worse. So predicts the latest report on the global banking industry, this one by McKinsey & Company. In it, the consulting firm calls for cost-cutting and changes in culture. It also suggests that some lenders may be forced to put themselves up for sale. "You will see significant consolidation, particularly among banks with less diversified income streams," Toos Daruvala, a McKinsey director and co-author of the report, told Reuters.
The sluggish economy doesn't help. The International Monetary Fund is lowering its forecast for global economic growth to 3.3 percent this year and 3.6 percent in 2013, predicting a 15 percent chance of a recession in the United States next year. The I.M.F.'s Global Financial Stability report is due out this evening.
With the economy potentially slowing, regulators are paying close attention to the banks' capital levels. But the banks are not necessarily happy. Some are clashing with the Federal Reserve over its stress tests, demanding more information on the Fed's calculations, The Wall Street Journal reports. Sallie Krawcheck, former head of Bank of America's wealth management division, said in a Twitter message on Monday that the discord was "not a bad thing," adding that she would "worry if they agree."
 Ireland's Bold Move | Ireland is going where no country has gone before. The government is close to passing a law that could encourage banks to reduce the amount that borrowers owe on their mortgages, "a step that no major country has been willing to take on a broad scale," DealBook's Peter Eavis reports. "The initiative, which would lower a borrower's monthly payment, could prevent a tide of foreclosures, an uncertainty that has been hanging over the Irish housing market for years." In other words, it could help Ireland's troubled economy.
Billion-Dollar Fraud Fighter | Max W. Berger, the plaintiffs lawyer, won six major securities class-action settlements, including the recent $2.43 billion deal with Bank of America, DealBook's Peter Lattman reports. But Mr. Berger, of Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann, is not celebrating." It makes me sad that in all of these scandals, no matter how good a job we do of getting results and inflicting pain, the government doesn't seem to follow suit, and nobody learns, and it's business as usual," Mr. Berger laments.
It's not just about the billion-dollar cases. DealBook's Peter J. Henning, the White Collar Watch columnist, highlights a recent case in which the Justice Department accused two brokers of secretly adding pennies to the cost of securities trades to generate $18.7 million in gains. Mr. Henning writes that "conduct involving relatively small amounts can add up to millions of dollars if allowed to go on long enough."
Buyouts Lift Carlyle | 
The Carlyle Group's bread-and-butter private equity business generated most of the growth among its funds in the third quarter. The value of the firm's leveraged buyout funds increased about 5 percent, while its global market strategies platform rose 2 percent.
Business has been good to David M. Rubenstein, the firm's co-founder, who appeared on CBS News on Monday to talk about the Giving Pledge, the effort by Warren E. Buffett and Bill Gates to encourage philanthropy.
On the Agenda | A court in Ghana is set to rule Tuesday on Argentina's battle with Elliott Management, whose affiliate recently seized an Argentine naval ship. Procter & Gamble has an annual shareholder meeting Tuesday after the hedge fund manager William A. Ackman was said to call for the chief executive to resign. The jury trial begins Tuesday in the Securities and Exchange Commission's case against the co-founder of the Reserve Primary money market fund, which "broke the buck" in the financial crisis. Alcoa and Chevron report earnings after the market closes. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany is visiting Greece. Sallie Krawcheck is on Bloomberg TV at 10 a.m.
 Aaron Levie, the C.E.O. of Box, is on CNBC at 1:30 p.m. and Bloomberg TV at 6 p.m. Glenn Hutchins, co-chief executive of Silver Lake, is on CNBC at 4:10 p.m.
 Aerospace Deal on the Rocks | The European aerospace companies EADS and BAE, which face an Oct. 10 deadline to submit a merger plan, are moving "toward filing an extension," Bloomberg News reports. Negotiations among leaders in Britain, France and Germany became more heated as Britain opposed a plan for France to increase its stake in the combined company, Reuters reports. And there may be further trouble from shareholders, as Invesco, the biggest investor in BAE, said it had "significant reservations" about the deal.
Silicon Valley's Reality Show | A new trailer for Bravo's "Start-Ups: Silicon Valley," features lots of partying and insightful lines like "geeks are definitely the new rock stars."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Barclays Picks Up ING Unit in Britain | Barclays said it was buying the mortgages and deposits of ING Direct in Britain, in a transaction that leaves the Dutch firm with a $415 million after-tax loss. WALL STREET JOURNAL | REUTERS
Auction Begins for Anschutz Entertainment | The Anschutz Entertainment Group is expected to "draw bids in the $10 billion range," Reuters reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the situation. REUTERS
BP's Russian Partners Look to Sell Stake in Joint Venture | The move by the Russian billionaires sets up a "race" with BP to exit TNK-BP first, Reuters writes. REUTERS
BP to Sell Texas City Refinery to Marathon Petroleum | BP said that it would sell its Texas City refinery and other assets to Marathon Petroleum for $2.5 billion, as the British oil company nearly finishes up an aggressive plan to pare back assets. DealBook »
Principal Financial to Buy AFP Cuprum of Chile for $1.5 Billion | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Russian Consumer Lender Says It May Sell Itself | Tinkoff Credit Systems is considering an I.P.O., but it also said it could put itself up for sale to a company like Google, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
TPC Group Receives Higher Offer | The chemicals maker TPC Group said it had received a buyout offer of $721 million from Innospec, beating an earlier offer from two private equity firms, Reuters reports. REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Julius Baer to Cut 1,000 Jobs After Deal for Bank of America Unit | The Swiss bank plans to eliminate up to 18 percent of its work force to cut costs after it struck a deal in August with Bank of America to buy the American bank's private banking operations outside the United States and Japan. DealBook »
Wal-Mart Partners With American Express for Prepaid Card | American Express, which previously had been focused on high-end consumers, is offering a prepaid card with Wal-Mart Stores that is being pitched as "an option for people turned off by bank fees," The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Goldman Sachs Staff Turns Against Obama | The firm's employees are now "top sources of money" for Mitt Romney and the Republican party, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Ex-S.E.C. Official Heads to Goldman Asset Management | Andrew Donohue, a former head of the investment management division of the Securities and Exchange Commission, is becoming the deputy general counsel of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, Reuters reports. REUTERS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Allied World Assurance Buys Stake in MatlinPatterson | Along with the stake, Allied World will invest $500 million in MatlinPatterson's funds, a pattern seen in recent acquisitions by other institutional investors. DealBook »
Black's Latest Purchase | The chief executive of Apollo Global Management, Leon Black, is buying Phaidon Press, the art book publisher, according to The Wall Street Journal. Mr. Black was identified earlier this year as the buyer who paid almost $120 million for an edition of Edvard Munch's "The Scream." WALL STREET JOURNAL
Nine Entertainment Proposes New Restructuring Plan | 
REUTERS
Florida Newspaper Sold to Private Equity Firm | The Revolution Capital Group, based in Los Angeles, is buying The Tampa Tribune for $9.5 million. ASSOCIATED PRESS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Navistar Strikes a Deal With Icahn | Navistar International agreed to add three directors chosen by Carl C. Icahn and Mark Rachesky to its board, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Hedge Funds to Cut Trading Costs | A survey of hedge funds by Greenwich Associates found that 44 percent planned to spend less on their trading desks than in 2011, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
New Hedge Fund Focuses on Asian M.&A. | Ardon Maroon Fund Management has started a new hedge fund run by former executives of Morgan Stanley and Lehman Brothers, Reuters reports. REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Facebook Offers to Sweeten a Settlement Over Advertising | Facebook is trying to reach a deal over Sponsored Stories, a form of advertising that may help the company make money on mobile devices, the Bits blog writes. NEW YORK TIMES BITS
MegaFon Files for I.P.O. in Russia | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Questions Over Where Huawei Might List | The Chinese telecommunications company was said to be looking to go public in the United States, but after a government investigation, it may head to Hong Kong or London, The Wall Street Journal writes. WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Calxeda, Computer Chip Start-Up, Raises $55 Million | 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Another Finnish Start-Up Has a Hit Game | Finland, the country that is home to the company behind Angry Birds, has also produced the hit game Clash of Clans, made by the games start-up Supercell, the Bits blog writes. NEW YORK TIMES BITS
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Fewer Banks Setting Libor | Though 18 banks contribute to setting Libor, submissions from a smaller number of those lenders are increasingly the ones with the most sway, as they "have been used in setting the rate on an almost daily basis in the past four months," according to Bloomberg News. BLOOMBERG NEWS
European Officials Tell Greece to Accelerate Economic Reform | 
NEW YORK TIMES
Goldman Agrees to Settle Claims Over Options Trades | The firm is paying $6.75 million to eight United States exchanges. BLOOMBERG NEWS
China's Central Bank Begins Monetary Stimulus | The People's Bank of China offered $42.14 billion of reverse repurchase agreements, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (84%); CLASS ACTIONS (82%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (82%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); TAX LAW (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); FORECLOSURE (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (73%); PETITIONS (71%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); WRITERS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRELAND (94%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



366 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1868 words

HEADLINE: A Tax Too High

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Wall Street doesn't exactly love the idea of higher taxes, but a proposal in France looks much scarier than anything being discussed here. | A report on the global banking industry suggests that some lenders may be forced to put themselves up for sale. | Ireland is close to passing a law that could help struggling homeowners. | Max W. Berger, the plaintiffs lawyer, isn't celebrating his six major securities class-action settlements. 

 BODY:
A Tax Too High | 
Wall Street doesn't exactly love the idea of higher taxes. But a proposal in France looks much scarier than anything being discussed in this country: a 75 percent marginal tax rate on all income over $1.3 million, with capital gains taxes as high as 60 percent.
This was not what French executives were expecting when they signed a petition asking for higher taxes (yes, higher taxes), and now many are "crying foul," writes Andrew Ross Sorkin in the DealBook column. "The idea of soaking the rich is often a popular one. But if there is lesson in the French experience, despite the economic models, it is that there are limits."
Another Gloomy Forecast for Banks | It's already bad, and it could get worse. So predicts the latest report on the global banking industry, this one by McKinsey & Company. In it, the consulting firm calls for cost-cutting and changes in culture. It also suggests that some lenders may be forced to put themselves up for sale. "You will see significant consolidation, particularly among banks with less diversified income streams," Toos Daruvala, a McKinsey director and co-author of the report, told Reuters.
The sluggish economy doesn't help. The International Monetary Fund is lowering its forecast for global economic growth to 3.3 percent this year and 3.6 percent in 2013, predicting a 15 percent chance of a recession in the United States next year. The I.M.F.'s Global Financial Stability report is due out this evening.
With the economy potentially slowing, regulators are paying close attention to the banks' capital levels. But the banks are not necessarily happy. Some are clashing with the Federal Reserve over its stress tests, demanding more information on the Fed's calculations, The Wall Street Journal reports. Sallie Krawcheck, former head of Bank of America's wealth management division, said in a Twitter message on Monday that the discord was "not a bad thing," adding that she would "worry if they agree."
 Ireland's Bold Move | Ireland is going where no country has gone before. The government is close to passing a law that could encourage banks to reduce the amount that borrowers owe on their mortgages, "a step that no major country has been willing to take on a broad scale," DealBook's Peter Eavis reports. "The initiative, which would lower a borrower's monthly payment, could prevent a tide of foreclosures, an uncertainty that has been hanging over the Irish housing market for years." In other words, it could help Ireland's troubled economy.
Billion-Dollar Fraud Fighter | Max W. Berger, the plaintiffs lawyer, won six major securities class-action settlements, including the recent $2.43 billion deal with Bank of America, DealBook's Peter Lattman reports. But Mr. Berger, of Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann, is not celebrating." It makes me sad that in all of these scandals, no matter how good a job we do of getting results and inflicting pain, the government doesn't seem to follow suit, and nobody learns, and it's business as usual," Mr. Berger laments.
It's not just about the billion-dollar cases. DealBook's Peter J. Henning, the White Collar Watch columnist, highlights a recent case in which the Justice Department accused two brokers of secretly adding pennies to the cost of securities trades to generate $18.7 million in gains. Mr. Henning writes that "conduct involving relatively small amounts can add up to millions of dollars if allowed to go on long enough."
Buyouts Lift Carlyle | 
The Carlyle Group's bread-and-butter private equity business generated most of the growth among its funds in the third quarter. The value of the firm's leveraged buyout funds increased about 5 percent, while its global market strategies platform rose 2 percent.
Business has been good to David M. Rubenstein, the firm's co-founder, who appeared on CBS News on Monday to talk about the Giving Pledge, the effort by Warren E. Buffett and Bill Gates to encourage philanthropy.
On the Agenda | A court in Ghana is set to rule Tuesday on Argentina's battle with Elliott Management, whose affiliate recently seized an Argentine naval ship. Procter & Gamble has an annual shareholder meeting Tuesday after the hedge fund manager William A. Ackman was said to call for the chief executive to resign. The jury trial begins Tuesday in the Securities and Exchange Commission's case against the co-founder of the Reserve Primary money market fund, which "broke the buck" in the financial crisis. Alcoa and Chevron report earnings after the market closes. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany is visiting Greece. Sallie Krawcheck is on Bloomberg TV at 10 a.m.
 Aaron Levie, the C.E.O. of Box, is on CNBC at 1:30 p.m. and Bloomberg TV at 6 p.m. Glenn Hutchins, co-chief executive of Silver Lake, is on CNBC at 4:10 p.m.
 Aerospace Deal on the Rocks | The European aerospace companies EADS and BAE, which face an Oct. 10 deadline to submit a merger plan, are moving "toward filing an extension," Bloomberg News reports. Negotiations among leaders in Britain, France and Germany became more heated as Britain opposed a plan for France to increase its stake in the combined company, Reuters reports. And there may be further trouble from shareholders, as Invesco, the biggest investor in BAE, said it had "significant reservations" about the deal.
Silicon Valley's Reality Show | A new trailer for Bravo's "Start-Ups: Silicon Valley," features lots of partying and insightful lines like "geeks are definitely the new rock stars."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Barclays Picks Up ING Unit in Britain | Barclays said it was buying the mortgages and deposits of ING Direct in Britain, in a transaction that leaves the Dutch firm with a $415 million after-tax loss. WALL STREET JOURNAL | REUTERS
Auction Begins for Anschutz Entertainment | The Anschutz Entertainment Group is expected to "draw bids in the $10 billion range," Reuters reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the situation. REUTERS
BP's Russian Partners Look to Sell Stake in Joint Venture | The move by the Russian billionaires sets up a "race" with BP to exit TNK-BP first, Reuters writes. REUTERS
BP to Sell Texas City Refinery to Marathon Petroleum | BP said that it would sell its Texas City refinery and other assets to Marathon Petroleum for $2.5 billion, as the British oil company nearly finishes up an aggressive plan to pare back assets. DealBook »
Principal Financial to Buy AFP Cuprum of Chile for $1.5 Billion | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Russian Consumer Lender Says It May Sell Itself | Tinkoff Credit Systems is considering an I.P.O., but it also said it could put itself up for sale to a company like Google, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
TPC Group Receives Higher Offer | The chemicals maker TPC Group said it had received a buyout offer of $721 million from Innospec, beating an earlier offer from two private equity firms, Reuters reports. REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Julius Baer to Cut 1,000 Jobs After Deal for Bank of America Unit | The Swiss bank plans to eliminate up to 18 percent of its work force to cut costs after it struck a deal in August with Bank of America to buy the American bank's private banking operations outside the United States and Japan. DealBook »
Wal-Mart Partners With American Express for Prepaid Card | American Express, which previously had been focused on high-end consumers, is offering a prepaid card with Wal-Mart Stores that is being pitched as "an option for people turned off by bank fees," The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Goldman Sachs Staff Turns Against Obama | The firm's employees are now "top sources of money" for Mitt Romney and the Republican party, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Ex-S.E.C. Official Heads to Goldman Asset Management | Andrew Donohue, a former head of the investment management division of the Securities and Exchange Commission, is becoming the deputy general counsel of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, Reuters reports. REUTERS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Allied World Assurance Buys Stake in MatlinPatterson | Along with the stake, Allied World will invest $500 million in MatlinPatterson's funds, a pattern seen in recent acquisitions by other institutional investors. DealBook »
Black's Latest Purchase | The chief executive of Apollo Global Management, Leon Black, is buying Phaidon Press, the art book publisher, according to The Wall Street Journal. Mr. Black was identified earlier this year as the buyer who paid almost $120 million for an edition of Edvard Munch's "The Scream." WALL STREET JOURNAL
Nine Entertainment Proposes New Restructuring Plan | 
REUTERS
Florida Newspaper Sold to Private Equity Firm | The Revolution Capital Group, based in Los Angeles, is buying The Tampa Tribune for $9.5 million. ASSOCIATED PRESS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Navistar Strikes a Deal With Icahn | Navistar International agreed to add three directors chosen by Carl C. Icahn and Mark Rachesky to its board, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Hedge Funds to Cut Trading Costs | A survey of hedge funds by Greenwich Associates found that 44 percent planned to spend less on their trading desks than in 2011, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
New Hedge Fund Focuses on Asian M.&A. | Ardon Maroon Fund Management has started a new hedge fund run by former executives of Morgan Stanley and Lehman Brothers, Reuters reports. REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Facebook Offers to Sweeten a Settlement Over Advertising | Facebook is trying to reach a deal over Sponsored Stories, a form of advertising that may help the company make money on mobile devices, the Bits blog writes. NEW YORK TIMES BITS
MegaFon Files for I.P.O. in Russia | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Questions Over Where Huawei Might List | The Chinese telecommunications company was said to be looking to go public in the United States, but after a government investigation, it may head to Hong Kong or London, The Wall Street Journal writes. WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Calxeda, Computer Chip Start-Up, Raises $55 Million | 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Another Finnish Start-Up Has a Hit Game | Finland, the country that is home to the company behind Angry Birds, has also produced the hit game Clash of Clans, made by the games start-up Supercell, the Bits blog writes. NEW YORK TIMES BITS
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Fewer Banks Setting Libor | Though 18 banks contribute to setting Libor, submissions from a smaller number of those lenders are increasingly the ones with the most sway, as they "have been used in setting the rate on an almost daily basis in the past four months," according to Bloomberg News. BLOOMBERG NEWS
European Officials Tell Greece to Accelerate Economic Reform | 
NEW YORK TIMES
Goldman Agrees to Settle Claims Over Options Trades | The firm is paying $6.75 million to eight United States exchanges. BLOOMBERG NEWS
China's Central Bank Begins Monetary Stimulus | The People's Bank of China offered $42.14 billion of reverse repurchase agreements, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (84%); CLASS ACTIONS (82%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (82%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); TAX LAW (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); FORECLOSURE (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (73%); PETITIONS (71%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); WRITERS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRELAND (94%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



367 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: A Move Toward Romney in Polls, but Will It Last?

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The sizable shift toward Mitt Romney after the first debate is a perfect example of the unpredictable role that momentum plays in American presidential campaigns. 

 BODY:
For weeks in August and September, while conservative pundits increasingly began writing off Mitt Romney's campaign as hapless and hopeless, top aides to the Republican presidential hopeful privately preached patience and resolve.
"Romney took a hit," a top adviser to Mr. Romney conceded in late September, after Mr. Romney's poll numbers fell in the wake of his comment about how "47 percent" of Americans were dependent on government and saw themselves as victims.
"But nothing that a candidate has said in September has ever determined a race unless it was 'your honor, I plead guilty,'" the adviser said, waving aside those who declared the race over. "It's O.K. to think for yourself. Resist the urge to follow."
Mr. Romney's debate performance last Wednesday was just the kind of moment that his advisers were waiting and hoping for: a single event that quickly erased the gloom and doom surrounding his White House bid and provided new momentum for his campaign.
In rallies over the weekend, Mr. Romney has been a different candidate. His voice seems stronger, more confident. His advisers and surrogates are happier and less defensive. And his supporters are telling pollsters that they are finally proud to support his candidacy.
A new Pew Research poll released Monday found that Mr. Romney's supporters are more engaged and more enthusiastic about their candidate than they have ever been during this election season. That appears to have translated into a narrowing race, with several polls showing President Obama's national lead shrinking in the wake of the debate.
Now, with 28 days and three more debates left, Mr. Romney and his advisers have to worry about another quick turnaround - this time in Mr. Obama's direction.
The sizable shift toward Mr. Romney after the first debate is a perfect example of the unpredictable role that momentum plays in American presidential campaigns. 
In 1980, George H.W. Bush claimed to have "the Big Mo" after defeating Ronald Reagan in the Iowa caucuses. "What we will have is momentum," Mr. Bush told CBS's Bob Schieffer that morning. "We will look forward to Big Mo being on our side, as they say in athletics."
Since then, academic researchers have documented the tendency for presidential hopefuls to surge forward on the strength of single events, buoyed by a sudden infusion of confidence, money and public support.
It was just that kind of momentum that seemed to be carrying Mr. Obama toward a re-election victory in the late summer and early fall this year. 
A series of mistakes and missteps by Mr. Romney's campaign and an aggressive advertising effort by the Democrats had gotten the ball rolling for Mr. Obama. Polls in September all showed him gaining nationally and in all of the important battleground states. The carping among conservatives had begun with Peggy Noonan, a former speechwriter for Mr. Reagan, calling his campaign "incompetent" and a "rolling calamity."
That all ended abruptly on Wednesday, when Mr. Obama's lackluster debate performance served as a surprising contrast to the aggressive, energetic and somewhat more politically moderate version of Mr. Romney who showed up in Denver.
By the end of the debate momentum had clearly shifted, as evidenced by the faces of the advisers to both candidates: Mr. Romney's aides were as ecstatic as Mr. Obama's were depressed.
Such moments are sometimes fleeting, as Mr. Bush discovered in 1980 (and other winners in Iowa and New Hampshire have found out). The momentum behind Mr. Bush quickly evaporated and Mr. Reagan went on to defeat his rival for the Republican nomination that year. 
For Mr. Romney, the danger is that his newfound popularity does not necessarily reflect a fundamental altering of the dynamics of the race against Mr. Obama. A 90-minute debate - even one watched by 70 million people - does not change the Obama campaign's field operations in swing states or take away the trappings of the presidency that Mr. Obama enjoys.
And there remain at least three more opportunities for Mr. Obama's team to return the favor, seizing momentum back from his Republican rival as quickly as they lost it.
The first chance comes on Thursday, when Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. faces Mr. Romney's running mate, Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, for their only debate. 
Vice-presidential debates are often inconsequential, but Mr. Biden has an opportunity to remedy Mr. Obama's lack of interest with his typical, over-the-top intensity. If Mr. Biden can avoid making any gaffes - or if Mr. Ryan seems ill-prepared - momentum could shift.
But the biggest moments ahead are the two remaining presidential face-offs. The next one will be a town-hall-style debate between Mr. Romney and Mr. Obama on Oct. 16. The last debate, which will focus on foreign policy, will be on Oct. 22.
Mr. Obama's aides have already signaled that the president intends to be much more aggressive in the next debate. David Axelrod, the president's chief campaign strategist, told reporters that Mr. Obama will approach the final two debates with the idea that he "can't allow someone to stand there and manhandle the truth."
In the wake of the debate, Mr. Obama's team has gone on the attack, accusing Mr. Romney of lying during the debate about his real record. The point of the attacks? To slow down Mr. Romney's momentum.
The president got some help from the monthly jobs numbers two days after the debate. The surprise drop in the unemployment rate, from 8.1 percent to 7.8 percent, provided a new and better story line for Mr. Obama just when he needed it.
But the recent polling shows clear movement in Mr. Romney's direction. The question now is whether he can sustain that momentum for another 28 days - or whether Mr. Obama can steal it back.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (55%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Debates (Political); Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012; Elections; Polling; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (57%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



368 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Obama Ad Features Someone Big, Yellow and Feathery

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR and TRIP GABRIEL


HIGHLIGHT: A new television ad by President Obama's campaign features Big Bird in a tongue-in-cheek bid to attack Mitt Romney for suggesting he would crack down on federal funding for public television, while not cracking down on big banks. 

 BODY:
 1:49 a.m. | Updated If President Obama loses the election next month, his ad makers may have a second career on "The Daily Show."
A new television ad by Mr. Obama's campaign would fit right in on the sarcasm-laced comedy show. Or it could be an opening skit for "Saturday Night Live." 
The ad has a serious intention: attacking Mitt Romney for suggesting he would crack down on public funding for public television, while not saying he'd crack down on big banks. 
But it comes at a critical time in the presidential campaign, and could backfire on Mr. Obama if supporters view it as a less-than-serious response to a difficult moment in his effort to win a second term in the White House.
Ads like the Big Bird spot often risk exposing campaigns to accusations that they are not focused on the important issues of the day. It is a charge that Mitt Romney's campaign seized on quickly Tuesday morning.
The pushback continued aboard the Romney campaign jet Tuesday morning. Asked for a reaction to President Obama's waggish use of Big Bird in the new ad, a senior adviser to Mr. Romney expressed disdain. 
"Right now you've got 23 million Americans struggling to find work," said the adviser, Kevin Madden, ticking off other grim economic data. "I just find it troubling that the president's message, the president's focus 28 days from Election Day is Big Bird."
"The governor's going to focus acutely on jobs and the economy and what he can do to create a better more prosperous future for the American public," Mr. Madden told reporters. "And this is a much bigger focus."
At a rally in Iowa in the afternoon, Mr. Romney wasted no time in turning the tables on the Obama campaign. "These are tough times with real serious issues,' he said, "so you have to scratch our head when the president spent the past week talking about saving Big Bird.''
Aides to Mr. Obama said the ad will run alongside comedy shows that attract an audience certain to appreciate the humor. Senior advisers to Mr. Obama happily joked about the ad Tuesday morning.
But one way or the other, the 30-second spot seems destined to go down in 2012 campaign history as an iconic - if not necessarily game-changing - moment.
"Bernie Madoff. Ken Lay. Dennis Kozlowski. Criminals. Gluttons of greed," the ad's narrator says as images of three of Wall Street's most notorious white-collar villains are put on the screen. "And the evil genius who towered over them?"
In the mirrored glass of a towering office building, the ad shows a reflection of: Big Bird.
"One man has the guts to speak his name," the ad says, followed by Mr. Romney's mention of the yellow Muppet at the debate and at rallies. 
"Big. Yellow. A menace to our economy," the narrator continues. "Mitt Romney knows it's not Wall Street you have to worry about, it's Sesame Street."
"Mitt Romney," the ad concludes. "Taking on our enemies, no matter where they nest."
The end of the ad? Big Bird, sleeping in a nest.
The Republican National Committee responded within hours of the ad's release, but apparently didn't think it was funny.
In a release to reporters, a spokeswoman for the committee noted that Mr. Obama has mentioned "Big Bird" and Elmo" 13 times since Wednesday's debate, but said the president has not talked about Libya or the economy. 
"President Obama has offered voters only complaints and false attacks, making Sesame Street characters the cornerstone of his campaign" said Reince Priebus, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, said in a statement. "While President Obama has managed to come up with some Sesame Street themed one-liners that escaped him on debate night, he has failed to come up with a plan for a second term beyond his unyielding commitment to raising taxes."
The Republicans also posted a graphic, using an image of Sesame Street's the Count to make their point. 
In a predictable statement Tuesday morning, the Sesame Workshop, which produces "Sesame Street," chided Mr. Obama's campaign for using its feathery star without permission.
"Sesame Workshop is a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization and we do not endorse candidates or participate in political campaigns," the group said. "We have approved no campaign ads, and as is our general practice, have requested that the ad be taken down."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (72%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican National Committee; Sesame Street (TV Program); The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%) Republican National Committee

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (93%); BERNARD MADOFF (50%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



369 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Geithner Meets Chidambaram in Delhi

BYLINE: GARDINER HARRIS


HIGHLIGHT: Discussions "fruitful," both sides said, without specifying. 

 BODY:
Timothy F. Geithner, the United States Treasury secretary, returned to his childhood elementary school here in India on Tuesday before attending a day of meetings with Indian leaders and business executives.
Both Mr. Geithner and his Indian counterpart, Finance Minister P. Chidambaram, gave the usual platitudes in a news conference about how their discussions were "fruitful" and "substantive." And Mr. Geithner praised India for undertaking a series of important policy changes to ease restrictions on foreign investments in the country's retail, media and airline sectors.
"I think the reforms outlined by the government of India offer very promising paths to improving growth outcomes for the Indian economy," Mr. Geithner said. "They will be welcomed around the world."

Investors have greeted the changes warmly, driving up India's stock market and the value of its currency, the rupee. But India has yet to bury its long tradition of protectionism and socialist policies, so those changes have caused political tumult, leading one of the governing coalition's biggest allies to leave the government and call for a vote of no-confidence.
Since those who have railed against the latest policy changes have accused the Indian government of selling out to the Americans, Mr. Geithner's praise is not likely to benefit the Indian government politically. But Mr. Chidambaram, never a jolly presence, nonetheless seemed pleased.
Mr. Chidambaram said he had expressed some concerns to Mr. Geithner as well as to the Federal Reserve chairman Ben S. Bernanke, who joined Mr. Geithner in New Delhi, about the Federal Reserve's new plans for monetary easing.
"I raised the concern that it may impact commodity prices, and commodity prices may rise," said Mr. Chidambaram. The Americans pointed out that commodity prices had not yet risen, Mr. Chidambaram said. "We will wait and see, but if the quantitative easing revives the U.S. economy, that helps us."
Mr. Geithner later attended a meeting with Indian business leaders at a fancy hotel in town, and he was asked several times what advice he had for Indian leaders. Each time his answer was the basically the same.
"I'm not going to offer advice to this great and dynamic country," he said. 
He did, however, offer some compliments to India's present leaders. "They seem to have very good awareness of not only what's good economic policy for India but how to engender more confidence so that you can get more investment" from both domestic and international investors, he said.
He also said that he was optimistic about India's prospects for sustained long-term economic growth.
"My view is that the basic forces that over the last decade in India, and a little longer in some other economies, produced strong economic growth. I think those forces are still intact," he said.
Mr. Geithner spent most of his childhood in Africa and Asia, with several formative years at the American Embassy School in India's capital. He returned to the school Tuesday morning and answered questions from students as well as a few parents for nearly an hour.

        
A Conversation With: P. Chidambaram
        
Below 5 Percent Growth for India, I.M.F. Says
        
More Reforms Expected to Boost India's Flagging Economy
        
In Delhi, Banerjee Shows National Ambitions
        
Has Manmohan Singh Gambled Enough?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (68%) Bernanke, Ben S; Federal Reserve System; Foreign Investments; Geithner, Timothy F; India; Indian Rupee (Currency); New Delhi (India); Treasury Department; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%) Federal Reserve System; Treasury Department

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (94%); BEN BERNANKE (73%) Bernanke, Ben S; Geithner, Timothy F

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (93%); DELHI, INDIA (90%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%) India; New Delhi (India)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



370 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Parsing Romney's Foreign Policy Speech

BYLINE: CAROL GIACOMO


HIGHLIGHT: He tried to burnish his national security credentials by throwing money at defense spending and adopting Ronald Reagan's Cold War "peace through strength" slogan. 

 BODY:
There's hardly a paragraph in Mitt Romney's foreign policy speech at the Virginia Military Institute that doesn't need clarifying in one way or another.
Take the one where he vows to "restore the permanent presence" of air craft carrier task forces in both the eastern Mediterranean and the Persian Gulf region. It's all part of the Republican candidate's attempt to sound tough on Iran. He wants to leave the impression that President Obama is not paying attention to the unpredictable and tumultuous Arab world and can't be trusted to stop Tehran's nuclear program.
But the Navy, on average, already keeps two carriers in the Gulf region most of the time as ships come and go or overlap on their stays there. If there is something unique about Mr. Romney's proposal, it would be useful to hear it.

Mr. Romney also promised to forge closer relations with Israel - how much closer can they get?-- and deepen ties with America's Gulf allies. Conveniently, he never acknowledged that the Obama administration has sold lots of new weapons to the Gulf states and is pursuing nuclear power relationships with several of them.
Last summer, the United States moved significant military reinforcements into the Persian Gulf to deter the Iranian military from any possible attempt to shut the Strait of Hormuz. The administration also increased the number of fighter jets capable of striking deep into Iran if the standoff over its nuclear program escalates. The deployments are part of a long-planned effort to bolster the American military presence in the Gulf region, in part to reassure Israel that Mr. Obama's commitment to dealing with Iran is solid.
It isn't just aircraft carriers that are getting Mr. Romney's attention. In the speech, he reaffirmed an earlier commitment to "restore" the Navy by nearly doubling the pace of building from nine to 15 ships a year, including three submarines. What he didn't say is that this "restoration" would push the Navy budget to $200 billion per year by 2016, up from $156 billion this year.
Such extravagance is part of Mr. Romney's attempt to burnish national security credentials by throwing money at defense spending and adopting the Cold War "peace through strength" slogan of Ronald Reagan.
But this isn't the Cold War and the kind of excessive spending Mr. Romney envisions - 4 percent of Gross Domestic Product - is unsustainable in an economic crisis when Mr. Romney and his running mate Paul Ryan have promised to decimate other areas of federal spending and slash the deficit. In an interview with Defense News, Romney adviser and former Navy secretary John Lehman proposed steps, like staff cuts, to cover the increased naval expenditures. But Loren Thompson of the Lexington Institute says these strategies would barely begin to cover the cost. Is anyone surprised?

        
Obama and Romney Talk Foreign Policy
        
Opinion Report: For-Profit Schools
        
Romney at the Military Institute
        
Opinion Report: David Wiggins
        
Republican Turf

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); COLD WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); NAVIES (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (69%); BUDGETS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (56%) Foreign Policy; Iran; Pentagon; Romney, Mitt; United States Defense and Military Forces; Virginia Military Institute

ORGANIZATION: VIRGINIA MILITARY INSTITUTE (93%); US NAVY (57%) Virginia Military Institute

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (93%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012



371 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: A Bigger Paycheck on Wall Street

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG and BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: The New York State Comptroller says in a report that total compensation on Wall Street rose 4 percent last year to more than $60 billion -- an amount surpassed only by total pay in 2007 and 2008. 

 BODY:
It still pays to be on Wall Street.
The financial industry in New York has slashed jobs by the thousands over the last two years. For those who remain, annual compensation in total is at near-record levels, according to a report released Tuesday by the New York State comptroller.
Since the financial crisis, Wall Street firms have wrestled with two competing market forces. Faced with a heavier regulatory burden, a lethargic economic recovery and the loss of once-big moneymakers like complex derivatives tied to mortgages, the banks have instead tried to cut their biggest expense: people. Yet there persists a view on Wall Street that profits can't come simply by holding the line on costs - big pay is still needed to lure talent from other firms.
Toward that end, firms have sought to cut jobs and noncompensation expenses rather than compensation itself. Both Goldman Sachs and Bank of America have announced big noncompensation cost-cutting efforts over the past year, for example.
The result is that compensation over all continues to rise even as some shareholders press firms to cut costs further amid weak profit growth. (Nearly half of all revenue on Wall Street is earmarked for compensation; in 2009, Morgan Stanley, which was hit harder during the crisis than most of its rivals, found itself paying out a record 62 percent of its net revenue in compensation and benefits. That number has since come down.)
The report showed that total compensation on Wall Street last year rose 4 percent, to more than $60 billion. That was higher than any total except those in 2007 and 2008 - before the financial crisis fully took its toll on pay.
The average pay package of securities industry employees in New York State was $362,950, up 16.6 percent over the last two years.
"It's good work if you can get it," said Thomas P. DiNapoli, the comptroller.
The results are sure to raise eyebrows on Main Street and in Washington, where lavish pay packages have come under attack since the crisis.
Still, the report provides only a snapshot of Wall Street's finances. The wage data largely covers 2011. With the third quarter in the books, Wall Street firms will soon begin figuring out their bonus pool and how to distribute it. For some Wall Street professionals, the year-end bonus can easily account for more than half their total compensation.
Yet expectations for this year appear to be high, according to another study out on Tuesday. Some 48 percent of 911 Wall Street employees surveyed by eFinancialCareers.com said they felt their bonuses this year would higher than in 2011. That was an increase from 2011, when 41 percent of survey respondents said they believed their annual bonus would increase.
There, the comptroller's report was not encouraging, saying that a survey it took earlier in the year suggested that Wall Street's total cash bonus pool for 2012 was likely to decline for the second consecutive year.
The comptroller's report attested to the importance of financial services to New York City. Financial jobs accounted for nearly a quarter of all private sector wages paid in the city last year, even though they accounted for just a fraction, 5.3 percent, of the city's private sector jobs.
Over all, the annual report depicted a cloudy outlook for the financial industry and its thousands of employees.
"The securities industry remains in transition and volatility in profits and employment show that we have not yet reached the new normal," Mr. DiNapoli said.
After posting a "disappointing" $7.7 billion in earnings last year, Wall Street in the first half of 2012 earned $10.5 billion, he said. The industry "is on pace" to earn more than $15 billion by the end of the year.
But even with some signs of improvement, Wall Street is rapidly shedding jobs. The austerity efforts have claimed 1,200 positions so far this year, according to the report. Mr. DiNapoli estimated that the industry lost more than 20,000 jobs since late 2007.
"In the short run, as a way to keep profits up, the firms will drive down costs and that will mean contraction in the work force," Mr. DiNapoli said.
Goldman Sachs had 32,300 on the payroll at the end of its second quarter in June, down 3,200 people from the year-ago period. Bank of America has cut 12,624 employees over the past year, leaving it with 275,460 people.
Banks have also taken aim at lavish cash bonuses. The comptroller in February estimated that cash bonuses declined 13.5 percent, to $19.7 billion.
As Wall Street reins in cash payouts to top executives, the banks have been encouraged to reward employees with more stock and other long-term compensation. Some people argue that such a move discourages outsize risk-taking and ties an employee's interest to the long-term health of the bank.
While pay remains high across the board, senior executive pay has fallen since the financial crisis. In 2007, the year before the financial crisis, Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, made $68.5 million. In 2011 he took home $12 million.
For an executive like Mr. Blankfein, $12 million may be a pay cut, but it is still a princely sum compared with other industries. Between 2009 and 2011, compensation in the securities industry grew at an average annual rate of 8.7 percent, outpacing 5.3 percent for the rest of the private sector.
"Whether you love or hate people on Wall Street, they are spending money that is driving our economy," Mr. DiNapoli said.

New York State Comptroller's Report on Securities Industry (PDF)

New York State Comptroller's Report on Securities Industry (Text)

        
In Market Rebound, a Windfall for Wall Street Executives
        
Bad Year for Wall St. Not Reflected in Chiefs' Pay

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); SALARY SURVEYS (74%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); BONUS PAY (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Bonuses; DiNapoli, Thomas P; Executive Compensation; New York State; Office of the Comptroller (NYS); Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Office of the Comptroller (NYS)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

PERSON: DiNapoli, Thomas P

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



372 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Sues Wells Fargo, Accusing It of Lying About Mortgages

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Prosecutors accused the bank of lying about the quality of the mortgages it handled under a federal housing program, the latest in a series of lawsuits related to banks' lending practices during the housing boom. 

 BODY:
United States prosecutors sued Wells Fargo on Tuesday, accusing it of lying about the quality of the mortgages it handled under a federal housing program. It was the latest in a series of lawsuits related to banks' lending practices during the housing boom.
In a lawsuit filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan, the prosecutors accused Wells Fargo, the country's largest originator of home loans, of defrauding the government for more than a decade. The bank recklessly issued mortgages and then made false certifications about their condition to the Federal Housing Administration, a government agency that insured them, the complaint said.
The problematic loans were not eligible for the government insurance, according to the lawsuit, and when they soured, the F.H.A. was obligated to cover the losses. The Justice Department is seeking hundreds of millions of dollars in damages.
"Yet another major bank has engaged in a longstanding and reckless trifecta of deficient training, deficient underwriting and deficient disclosure, all while relying on the convenient backstop of government insurance," Preet S. Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan, whose office filed the lawsuit, said in a statement.
Wells Fargo denied the accusations, saying that it had acted in good faith and in compliance with the F.H.A. program.
"Wells Fargo is the leading F.H.A. lender and has acted as a prudent and responsible lender, with F.H.A. delinquency rates that have been as low as half the industry average," the bank said in a statement. "The bank will present facts to vigorously defend itself against this action."
The action against Wells Fargo came after many civil lawsuits were filed by the government against large banks related to their lending practices. A number of the banks have settled the cases, including Deutsche Bank, which paid more than $200 million to resolve civil fraud charges; Citigroup's Citimortgage unit, which settled claims for $158 million; and Bank of America, in a settlement connected to its Countrywide Financial business, for $1 billion.
To bring these cases, the government has used an obscure law called the Financial Institutions Reform, Recover, and Enforcement Act. The law, passed after the saving-and-loans scandals in the late 1980s, gives the government broad authority to bring civil claims and seek big financial penalties against federally insured banks. That law also has a lower standard of proof than criminal business fraud statutes.
Despite these civil actions against the large banks, the Justice Department has been criticized for bringing too few criminal cases against banks and their executives tied to their conduct during the housing boom and financial crisis. Prosecutors have said these cases are difficult to bring because they require proving an intent to defraud beyond a reasonable doubt.
The complaint depicts a mortgage factory inside Wells Fargo that was singularly focused on increasing the bank's loan volumes - and profits - while ignoring the quality of the loans.
"Management's actions included hiring temporary staff to churn out and approve an ever-increasing quantity of F.H.A. loans, failing to provide its inexperienced staff with proper training, paying improper bonuses to its underwriters to incentivize them to approve as many F.H.A. loans as possible, and applying pressure on loan officers and underwriters to originate and approve more and more F.H.A. loans as quickly as possible," the lawsuit said.
Wells Fargo knew about the vast number of deficient loans but concealed them from the F.H.A., according to the government's complaint.
The case was assigned to Judge Jesse M. Furman, one of the newest federal judges in Manhattan. Mr. Furman, 40, a former federal prosecutor, assumed a seat on the bench in February 2012.
An earlier version of this story rendered incorrectly part of the name of the federal housing agency that insured Wells Fargo's mortgages. It is the Federal Housing Administration, not the Federal Housing Authority.

        
The Fine Print of Goldman's Subprime Bet
        
Authorities Poised to Pile on Goldman Over Financial Crisis

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (93%); LITIGATION (93%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); DAMAGES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (76%); SCANDALS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%) Bharara, Preet; Justice Department; Mortgage-Backed Securities; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Suits and Litigation; Wells Fargo & Company; Wells Fargo & Company|WFC|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Real Estate

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%) Justice Department; Wells Fargo & Company

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%); BK (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%) Wells Fargo & Company; WFC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

PERSON: Bharara, Preet

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2012



373 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: Liberalism's Glass Jaw

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: The president's debate collapse was symptomatic of a more profound problem: the weakness of Obama-era liberalism. 

 BODY:
Last month, Republicans staring at defeat in November alternated between blaming Mitt Romney and blaming the American people, when they should have been looking harder at the flaws in contemporary conservatism. Now that Romney has surged back into contention, liberals are making a similar mistake. They're focusing too intently on the particular weaknesses of President Obama's debate performance, rather than on the weaknesses in Obama-era liberalism that last Wednesday's Denver showdown left exposed.
Four years ago, the Obama presidency was hailed as the beginning of an extended liberal renaissance - a new New Deal, a resurrected Camelot, a return to the glory days of Lyndon Johnson before Vietnam wrecked his presidency. Health care reform was the highest priority, but it was supposed to be only the beginning. With the Democrats enjoying huge Congressional majorities, everything seemed to be on the table: immigration reform, a program to combat climate change, card-check legislation, a wave of trust-busting in the banking sector - and at the least, the very least, a return to Clinton-era tax rates.
There is no world in which all of these hopes could have been perfectly realized. But the ways in which they've been disappointed have delivered some hard lessons. It isn't just that Obama failed to live up to the (frankly impossible) standard set by his 2008 campaign and the media adoration that accompanied it. It's that the nature of his failures speak to the limits of the liberal project, and the tensions and contradictions within the liberal coalition.
Sometimes Obama-era liberalism has disappointed because it has failed outright. The defeat of cap-and-trade legislation and the stillborn push for immigration reform exposed the deep fissures within the Democratic Party, and particularly the divide between the enlightened do-goodism of the party's upper-middle-class supporters and the economic interests of its remaining blue-collar constituents.
The steadily worsening deficit picture, meanwhile, has been a reminder that an expanding government balance sheet makes sense only if you can persuade taxpayers to pay more to cover it, which Obama's party hasn't done. More important, given the limit to how much money can be extracted from the wealthy, it makes sense only if you persuade middle class taxpayers to pay more, which Obama's party hasn't even tried to do.
But the Obama administration's legislative successes have offered hard lessons to liberals as well. Indeed, it's the failures of the successes, if you will, that have cast the longest shadow across his re-election effort.
First, there was the failure of stimulus bill to deliver anything like the kind of rebound that Obama's technocrats confidently projected. This failure isn't necessarily an indictment of the theory behind Keynesian economics. But at the very least it exposes two limitations on Keynesianism in practice: the difficulties that even experts can have assessing the true state of the economy, and the ways in which the push and pull of democratic politics makes it difficult to simply keep throwing money at a problem.
Then came the White House's failure to sell the public on its health care bill, which exacerbated the stimulus's underperformance - by leading to months of wrangling when Washington should have been reckoning with the economy instead - and then cost the Democrats dearly at the polls in 2010. This failure of salesmanship doesn't in and of itself discredit the bill's provisions. But at the very least it demonstrates that the redistributive policies liberals favor will be accepted only if they're founded on a secure base of economic growth - growth that Obama's policies, unlike F.D.R.'s or L.B.J.'s, have conspicuously failed to produce.
More broadly, all of Obama's signature accomplishments have tended to have the same weakness in common: They have been weighed down by interest-group payoffs and compromised by concessions to powerful insiders, from big pharma (which stands to profit handsomely from the health care bill) to the biggest banks (which were mostly protected by the Dodd-Frank financial reform). It may have been an empty rhetorical gesture, but the fact that Romney could actually out-populist the president on "too big to fail" during the last debate speaks to the Obama-era tendency for liberalism to blur into a kind of corporatism, in which big government intertwines with big business rather than restraining it.
Again, every administration has its share of disappointments, and every ideology has to make concessions to political reality. But what we don't see in this campaign cycle is much soul-searching from Democrats about the ways in which their agenda hasn't worked out as planned.
Instead, in a country facing a continued unemployment crisis and a looming deficit crunch, liberals have rallied behind a White House whose only real jobs program is "stay the course" and whose plan to deal with long-term deficits relies on the woefully insufficient promise to tax the 1 percent. When Obama insiders wax optimistic about what a second term might bring, they mostly talk about pursuing legislation on climate change and immigration yet again, without explaining why things will turn out differently this time around.
This lack of a plausible vision, more than his stutters and missed opportunities, is what doomed the president in last week's debate. His responses to Romney were strikingly backward-looking - alternating between "we're already doing that" and "we tried that under Republicans, and it didn't work," and rarely pivoting effectively to "here's what we should do next."
It's not that Romney offered some detailed, brilliantly persuasive alternative. He didn't, and couldn't, because his party has at best a sketch of a policy agenda rather than a blueprint. But Romney isn't running for re-election, and this was a case where merely seeming forward-looking, energetic and reassuring was enough to remind Americans of all the ways that the Obama era has disappointed them - and in so doing, sent shivers down liberalism's glass jaw.

        
Cool Hand Barry
        
Vote Lincoln in 2012
        
Toe to Toe
        
Debating Points
        
What Mitt Should Tell the 47 Percent

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (96%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (85%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); POLITICS (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%); IMMIGRATION (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (65%); CLIMATE CHANGE (53%) Barack Obama; liberalism; Mitt Romney; Obama-era liberalism; presidential debates; presidential election of 2012; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Liberalism (US Politics); Presidential Election of 2012; Democratic Party

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (93%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2012



374 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: A Cheerful Self-Help Program, Delivered in Song

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
Andrea Marcovicci's annual Manhattan cabaret appearances are more than starry-eyed exercises in pop nostalgia steeped in show business lore. They are full-scale charm offensives that on a good night vanquish opposing armies of cynicism and despair and momentarily turn you into a true believer in the power of that evanescent quality known as glamour.
Each fall for 25 years, Ms. Marcovicci's forces have occupied the Oak Room at the Algonquin Hotel, which closed abruptly this year. Without missing a beat, she has transferred her base of operations from Midtown to the Café Carlyle on the Upper East Side.
From the evidence of her performance there on Thursday evening, the transition has refreshed her in subtle but significant ways. A guitarist (Jack Cavari) has been added to her longtime backup of piano (Shelly Markham) and bass (Jered Egan).
The additional support has noticeably fortified her confidence so that the middle range of her fluttery, problematic voice has gained in richness. The new show, titled ''Smile,'' is not her typical tribute to one show business legend or another, but a cheerful self-help program that advocates the embrace of pleasure and fun as antidotes to anxiety and economic woe.
Ms. Marcovicci is no Pollyanna. And exhortations like ''Are You Havin' Any Fun?'' and ''Ain't We Got Fun?'' (in which ''the rich get rich and the poor get poor'') had a facetious edge. The forced cheer reached a nonsensical pinnacle with ''Zing a Little Zong,'' a novelty from the 1952 Bing Crosby movie ''Just for You,'' and that classic piece of gibberish, ''Mairzy Doats,'' which swept the country in the mid-1940s.
The show's most revealing medley strung together ''Sometimes I'm Happy,'' ''I Wanna Be Happy'' and ''It All Depends on You'' into a dependency suite whose core neediness Ms. Marcovicci smilingly acknowledged was not the healthiest attitude to encourage.
''Smile'' is the first Marcovicci show I've seen that lacks a torch song in which she wallows in heartbreak and longing. That I didn't miss the romantic melodrama is an indication of how good her new show is. Joie de vivre becomes her.
Andrea Marcovicci performs through Oct. 27 at the Café Carlyle, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan; (212) 744-1600.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrea Marcovicci: The singer, once an Oak Room fixture, brings her energy to the Café Carlyle. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



375 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: High Lead Found in City-Sourced Eggs

BYLINE: By JULIE SCELFO

 BODY:
TO the long list of food conundrums, add this: research has found elevated levels of lead in eggs from chickens in New York City public neighborhood gardens.
Preliminary results from a New York State Health Department study show that more than half the eggs tested from chickens kept in community gardens in Brooklyn, the Bronx and Queens had detectable levels of lead, unlike store-bought counterparts. While lead is a naturally occurring element that is ingested in a variety of ways, it has been well established to be harmful to humans, even in very low amounts.
Henry M. Spliethoff, a research scientist in the Bureau of Toxic Substance Assessment for the environmental health center of the State Health Department, tested 58 eggs from chickens living in New York City gardens and found that 28 of them contained lead in amounts of 10 to 73 parts per billion, with one egg having more than 100 parts per billion.
How to regard those results is a complicated question. If anything, they show how, as the locavorism gospel has spread, so, too, have questions about the safety of food cultivated in neighborhoods where previous revolutions were industrial, not epicurean.
Homeowners who keep chickens in their backyards have little way of knowing whether their eggs might be contaminated unless they have them tested themselves. The researchers tested 58 eggs from community gardens because those eggs were accessible and that was the number of eggs that met the criteria of their study.
Mr. Spliethoff plans to publish the study later this year after he finishes more analysis of data collected on soil and feed, in hopes of learning how those variables might contribute to the eggs' lead content. In the meantime, he notified all the study participants of the results and provided them with a list of tips for reducing lead exposure.
Still, the Department of Health is taking a cautious approach to explaining how the preliminary findings should be interpreted, saying it takes lead poisoning seriously but does not want to discourage urban gardeners from eating nutrient-dense eggs.
''We generally support chicken raising,'' Mr. Spliethoff said. ''However, we also support reducing lead exposure.''
The Food and Drug Administration does not have an established limit for acceptable amounts of lead in eggs, relying instead on a case-by-case approach to instances of contamination, a spokesman said. But in December 2005, after complaints about candy wrapped in colored papers that had lead, it established 100 parts per billion as the maximum acceptable lead level for candy likely to be consumed frequently by small children.
In the European Union, any poultry except game found to contain more than 100 parts per billion must be removed from the market, said Frédéric Vincent, a spokesman for the E.U. division of health and consumer policy. The United States Department of Agriculture Food Safety and Inspection Service does not have established limits for lead content in poultry.
In New York, an urban gardening group called Healthy Soils, Healthy Communities helped Mr. Spiethoff conduct the study, after finding almost no data on the safety of eating eggs from the gardens, even though tests often show soil contamination.
Michael Brownstein, 32, a philosophy professor who keeps six hens of various breeds in the backyard of his renovated town house in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, was concerned enough about the issue that this year he had his eggs tested by Zhongqi Cheng, the director of the Environmental Science Analytical Center at Brooklyn College.
Dr. Cheng, who also investigated eggs from another Brooklyn backyard, found that while some eggs were lead-free, others contained an average of 11.5 micrograms, an amount nearly double the 6 micrograms identified by the F.D.A. in 1993 as an acceptable daily intake level for children 6 years old or younger.
Dr. Cheng also found that egg yolks had a substantially higher concentration of lead than whites, something that scientists previously identified in a study of hens on a small farm in Iowa exposed to lead-based paint.
Confused about whether to continue feeding his eggs to his 6-year-old and 18-month-old, Mr. Brownstein consulted with their pediatrician and then a second doctor before deciding it was safe. But he said he wished there were clearer guidelines.
''When you get a soil test, there are easy-to-understand guides to interpreting the results: Do this, don't do that,'' he said. ''But nothing like that exists for eggs, and that would be handy.''
Declan Walsh, 44, a Dublin native and father of three who has kept chickens for nine years behind his home in Red Hook, Brooklyn, said he has always been aware that the eggs could contain small amounts of lead and was unconcerned.
''The benefits of raising your children with an awareness of where your food comes from and having an honest relationship with your livestock way, way outweighs the possibility that they might encounter a heavy metal,'' Mr. Walsh said.
''If your alternatives are trusting the industrial food system versus what's in your backyard,'' he said, the decision was easy. Eating eggs from chickens you raise ''exposes you to a much healthier mind-set and physical well-being.''
But Tamara Rubin, 42, a mother of four boys in Portland, Ore., who founded the Lead Safe America Foundation after her children were diagnosed with lead poisoning, said parents must be vigilant.
''It just takes a microscopic amount of lead to poison a child,'' Ms. Rubin said. ''Government agencies don't want to frighten the public when, in fact, I think we need to be a little bit frightened into action. We need to be made aware of the scope and impact of lead poisoning in our lives.''
Mr. Brownstein ultimately decided to feed his children his backyard eggs based on favorable results of lead tests administered by their pediatrician. ''You can get freaked out about anything,'' he said, ''and I think whether it's mercury in fish or lead in eggs, you do your best to take the most reasonable path and find the most reliable sources for information.''
''Thinking about the right way to eat is a benefit and a curse,'' Mr. Brownstein added.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: URBAN FOWL: One of Michael Brownstein's chickens in Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); POULTRY (90%); LEAD (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (90%); GARDENING (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); FOOD SAFETY (89%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (89%); MEAT INSPECTION (78%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); POULTRY & EGG INSPECTION (78%); CHICKEN FARMING (78%); LEAD POISONING (78%); POISONINGS (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); FOOD INSPECTION (73%); CHILDREN (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); EUROPEAN UNION (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (76%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



376 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Fiscal Cliff May Be Felt Gradually, Analysts Say

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Come January, if Congress fails to act, spending cuts and tax increases large enough to throw the country back into recession will hit.
It is known in Washington as the ''fiscal cliff.'' But policy and economic analysts projecting its complicated and wide-ranging potential impact said the term ''fiscal hill'' or ''fiscal slope'' might be more apt: the effect would be powerful but gradual, and in some cases, reversible.
''The slope would likely be relatively modest at first,'' Chad Stone, the chief economist at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a research group based in Washington, wrote in a recent analysis. ''A relatively brief implementation of the tax and spending changes required by current law should cause little short-term damage to the economy as a whole.''
The annual effect of the automatic tax increases and spending cuts would be enormous. The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that the budget deficit would shrink by more than half a trillion dollars from fiscal years 2012 to 2013 and that the economy would very likely enter another recession.
Nearly all Americans would see their tax bills increase, with income and payroll taxes climbing, credits shrinking and levies on investment earnings soaring. The Tax Policy Center, a Washington research group, has estimated that the average family would see its tax bill go up $3,500 and its after-tax income drop 6.2 percent.
At the same time, mandatory federal spending cuts would compel agencies across the government to reduce their budgets by billions. A study by the economist Stephen S. Fuller of George Mason University and sponsored by the Aerospace Industries Association, a trade group based in Virginia, has estimated the related job losses at as many as 2.14 million.
The potential economic damage has led a spate of economic heavy hitters -- from the International Monetary Fund, Wall Street, foreign capitals, the Federal Reserve and elsewhere -- to urge Congress to act before year's end.
Noting the fragility of the recovery, Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, described avoiding the cliff as the ''most effective way Congress could help to support the economy right now.''
But both Democrats and Republicans have said that going over the fiscal cliff might put them in a better negotiating position. And confidence in policy makers' ability to get a deal done is low.
In the event that New Year's Day came and went without a legislative fix, confidence, investment, markets and household spending would be hurt, analysts said. Still, there would be time for Congress to strike a deal before the economy started contracting. The economic effect would accumulate day by day, and much of it might be reversible.
The Treasury Department has significant discretion over whether to adjust the withholding tax tables, meaning it could choose to keep last year's rates and avert much of the blow from the tax increases. Policy makers could also apply lower tax rates retroactively: If the Bush-era tax cuts expired for all households in January, they could be reapplied in February.
''It would be quite easy,'' said Eric Toder of the Tax Policy Center. ''Technically easy. I don't know about politically easy.''
Congress does need to address the alternative minimum tax; a patch to ensure that millions of families do not pay higher taxes this year is broadly expected but not in place.
''A lot of people would be very surprised to see how big their tax bill will be,'' said Nigel Gault, the chief United States economist for IHS Global Insight. ''That's a pretty urgent one to take care of, so that tax forms can be properly prepared for 2012.''
Even if the tax increases hit in January, families might not notice the incremental loss of income in the near term, economists said. Households might temporarily dig into savings to maintain their spending on the gas, food, housing and other consumer goods, mitigating the impact the tax increases might have on the broader economy.
''The consumer has relied on savings to bridge the loss of disposable income from tax increases'' in the past, said Jacob Oubina of RBC Capital Markets in New York.
Moreover, while the fiscal cliff would be enormous in annual terms, its effect would be cumulative, not immediate, analysts have noted. Households hit by the tax increases might not notice the $10 or $100 missing from their paychecks, even if it would damp their spending over the course of the year. Agencies hit by the spending cuts might not act immediately.
Perceptions of Congress's progress on forestalling some of the tax increases and spending cuts might also prove important in January, analysts said.
If the White House and Congressional leaders seem incapable of reaching a deal, that might cause significant market panic, intensifying the economic blow from the tax increases and the spending cuts.
Mr. Gault said that in such a case the economy would be under a cloud of ''extreme uncertainty,'' alarming investors, depressing consumer confidence and hurting businesses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); FAMILY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); TAX WITHHOLDING (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); CORPORATE TAX (65%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (63%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (57%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



377 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; DANCE REVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Churning Their Way Through a Familiar Labyrinth of Economics and Politics

BYLINE: By GIA KOURLAS

 BODY:
How does the notion of turbulence manifest itself in a dance? For the San Francisco-based choreographer Keith Hennessy, it's accomplished through structured disorder. If you create enough chaotic situations, a piece of dance-theater will collapse on itself.
Mr. Hennessy's ''Turbulence (a dance about the economy),'' seen on Friday night at New York Live Arts, is a wreck that resembles a pop-up version of Occupy Wall Street. At any given moment in ''Turbulence,'' situations, both inconsequential and those charged with political meaning, erupt all over the stage.
It's like an eight-ring circus: a dancer, lying on his back with his face covered with fabric, is doused with water. A man sways listlessly as his lips move in imperceptible mumbles. Three others, sitting on the floor, meditate. In a doorway near the stage's wing, dancers, their heads draped in gold-sequined fabric -- like hoods, Abu Ghraib-style -- dangle like bats. Later they swing on a triangular trapeze.
Mr. Hennessy, an impressive improviser with a wiry forcefulness and a decided charisma, weaves his way through the action, speedily raising a knee, extending a leg and whirling his body around in feverish circles. He provides an all-too-brief dose of wild agitation in a long-winded production.
''Turbulence'' is a piece that travels in circles, making you wonder: Is the theater getting in the way of the politics, or is it the other way around? At one point the performers form a human pyramid, which, as a cast member explains, is a way of using the body to represent an unstable structure. Even though they wear those ominous gold hoods, it still looks like cheerleading.
The more shocking moments fall flat in their earnestness: one dancer, standing in the middle of the stage, urinates through his underwear. Another takes off his sweat-soaked T-shirt and wrings it over another performer's face. Gross, yes, but in the end the actions grow more and more tedious.
Nearly an hour in, Mr. Hennessy interrupts the show. ''Maybe just before we go into dance party,'' he says, referring to a section of the performance, ''we could have a little bit of talk about the financial system and debt.''
He doesn't get very far in his speech. Soon his cast begins to dance, and the stage, for a few seconds, resembles a Peanuts cartoon. It's yet another example of turbulence you endure; it doesn't take you anywhere new.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Turbulence: Keith Hennessy's work at New York Live Arts with, from left, Emily Leap, Gabriel Todd, Hana Erdman and Mr. Hennessy on a stage full of chaotic situations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); DANCE (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



378 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Italy and Spain Add Support to a Tax on Financial Trades in Europe

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

 BODY:
LUXEMBOURG -- Italy and Spain joined nine other European Union countries on Tuesday in backing a tax on financial trades, bringing the most significant attempt at such an initiative a step closer to success.
The levy, also known as a Robin Hood tax, or Tobin tax, gained momentum in Europe in better economic times. It was originally expected that the revenue would mostly go to humanitarian and environmental causes, including ways to combat climate change. Since the outbreak of the financial crisis, the emphasis has shifted.
European officials now mainly see the tax as a way of penalizing the financial sector and returning some of the money that was spent on bank bailouts to citizens squeezed by austerity and the economic slowdown.
''I think that taxpayers have legitimate expectations that they will be paid back for what was used in the bailouts, and the financial transactions tax can provide for this,'' Algirdas Semeta, the European commissioner for taxation, said Tuesday after a monthly meeting of European Union finance ministers, where a number of nations pledged their support.
''Many citizens are angry about these problems over the causes of the financial crisis, and this small contribution of very tiny rates could help rebuild confidence in the financial sector,'' Mr. Semeta said.
A qualified majority of all 27 European Union finance ministers would have to approve the measure for the tax to take effect among those nations that support it. Mr. Semeta said that step could be taken at the next meeting of the finance ministers, in November.
Such a tax has been under discussion for decades, and the idea is closely associated with James Tobin, an economist who proposed a version of it in the 1970s and received a Nobel in economic science in 1981.
In the United States, the tax has become a rallying point for labor unions, nongovernmental organizations and the Occupy Wall Street movement, which view it as a way to claw back money from the top wage earners. Last year, demonstrators urged the leaders of the Group of 20 nations to do more to help the poor, including passing a tax on financial transactions.
Mr. Semeta has already proposed legislation that would impose a tax of 0.1 percent on the value of all stock and bond trades, and of 0.01 percent on all derivatives trades. That could raise 57 billion euros ($74 billion) annually, or about 0.5 percent of European Union output, if it were applied across the bloc.
But with fewer than half of those countries expected to participate -- and without the revenue from the tax that could be generated by Britain -- the amount would probably be significantly less.
Britain opposes the measure, fearing that it could drive business from the City of London, a world financial center.
But Britain would probably have a partial exemption because only trades between British banks and those in countries that adopted the system would be taxed. Many specialists contend this would push even more financial business toward the City, as banks seek a base in a no-tax country.
''This is giving a present to London, the best present you can imagine,'' said Karel Lannoo, the chief executive of the Center for European Policy Studies, a research organization.
The drive for investment bankers, hedge fund managers and high-frequency traders to pay for the economic difficulties had become a paramount concern, Mr. Lannoo said. Politicians ''see there is pressure to do something about the financial sector,'' he said.
European officials said Tuesday that George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, would not oppose the measure as long as Britain was allowed a partial exemption from the plan.
Sweden and the Netherlands also have shown no interest in applying a new European tax.
''We still think that the financial transaction tax is a very dangerous tax,'' Anders Borg, the Swedish finance minister, said. ''It will have a negative impact on growth.''
The Dutch finance minister, Jan Kees de Jager, said his country was ''not in favor of a financial transaction tax'' and was ''even reluctant about introduction in other countries.''
Mr. Semeta acknowledged on Tuesday that the countries seeking to introduce the tax did not agree on how, exactly, the revenue would be spent.
''Of course the big question is how the money will be used, but first we need to agree on the tax itself,'' he said.
Mr. Semeta said some countries still would like to use some of the money to supplement financing for overseas aid projects, while others want to use it to help offset their contributions to the annual European Union budget of about 140 billion euros.
The opposition from Britain and Sweden led the biggest supporters of the tax, Germany and France, to push hard for a procedure known in European Union jargon as enhanced cooperation. It allows a core group of European nations to proceed with policies that other nations oppose. A minimum of nine nations is required for the commission to write legislation.
In recent days, Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Portugal and Slovenia pledged their support for the levy. On Monday, they were joined by Greece. On Tuesday, Italy, Spain, Slovakia and Estonia pledged support.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George Osborne, center, British chancellor of the Exchequer, greeted the finance ministersWolfgang Schäuble, right, of Germany, and Pierre Moscovici, of France, Tuesday in Luxembourg. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN THYS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); EURO (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); BANK FAILURES (75%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); CLIMATE CHANGE (71%); APPROVALS (71%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (70%); LEGISLATION (70%); LABOR UNIONS (58%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%)

PERSON: GEORGE OSBORNE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); SPAIN (94%); LUXEMBOURG (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



379 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Iran Cites I.M.F. Data To Rebut West

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

 BODY:
Iran sought on Tuesday to rebut assertions that Western sanctions had paralyzed the Iranian economy and severely weakened the currency, pointing to new data from the International Monetary Fund forecasting an economic rebound and lower inflation in 2013.
The new data in the monetary fund's twice-yearly World Economic Outlook report came during a virtual news blackout in Iran about trading in its currency, the rial. This month, the rial plunged against the dollar in a wave of foreign-exchange selling by many Iranians who were worried that the value of their savings in rials was shriveling.
The Iranian authorities, which have called the currency plunge part of an economic war against the country by the United States and other Western powers, have since cracked down on black-market trading in the rial and have limited currency transactions to authorized dealers at artificially fixed rates.
The monetary fund report, released on Monday, projects that Iran's gross domestic product will shrink 0.9 percent this year but grow 0.8 percent next year. The data also project that Iran's inflation rate will fall to 21.8 percent next year from 25.2 percent this year.
Iran's official Press TV news Web site and semiofficial Fars News Agency seized on the data, saying they showed that the country was not only coping with the economic sanctions imposed on its oil and financial operations but was growing despite those obstacles. A Press TV headline said, ''Iran will win battle against West sanctions: IMF.''
A monetary fund spokeswoman, Wafa Amr, said it had calculated the Iran data before the Iranian currency plunged in value this month.
But even when accounting for that change, private economists said the monetary fund's report appeared to rely at least partly on what the Iran government considers the rial's valid exchange rate and the inflation rate in the country.
''I don't know what they're looking at, but they're not looking at the right things,'' said Steve H. Hanke, an economics professor and currency expert at Johns Hopkins University and a senior fellow at the Cato Institute, a conservative research group in Washington, who has been following the rial's weakening against the dollar in black-market trading over the past few years as the Western sanctions have intensified.
''Things were getting worse, worse, worse, and the I.M.F. should have known,'' Mr. Hanke said.
By his calculations, Iran's inflation rate has skyrocketed to 196 percent because of the rial's diminished value, which has sharply increased the price of imports and other goods in Iran.
Other signs of increased economic isolation have emerged in recent days because of the sanctions, imposed to pressure Iran over its nuclear program. Iran says the program is for peaceful purposes, but Western nations suspect it is a guise to achieve nuclear weapons capability.
Denmark's Maersk Line, the world's largest shipping container company, said Tuesday that it was ending all port calls to Iran, having already suspended them for the most part. ''This is a pragmatic decision based on an assessment of balancing the benefits of doing limited business in Iran against the risk of damaging business opportunities elsewhere, particularly the U.S.,'' Reuters quoted a Maersk spokeswoman as saying.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); CONSERVATISM (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); PRICE CHANGES (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); PRICE INCREASES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



380 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON FOOTBALL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Try as He Might, Sanchez Can't Lift Jets

BYLINE: By GREG BISHOP

 BODY:
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.
The next-to-last pass Mark Sanchez threw late Monday night hit his tight end in the hands, bounced into the air and settled in the arms of a defender. Sanchez supporters -- and yes, they do exist, if only in ever-decreasing numbers -- were quick to point out that this particular interception, his 57th in 52 regular-season games, was not his fault.
They were right.
But it said something, about Sanchez and the Jets, that it seemed safe to expect a turnover there, that an interception seemed as likely, or more likely, than any of the alternatives. It seemed less a matter of if, and more a matter of how.
Through three complete seasons and roughly a third of a fourth, Sanchez has proved that he can win games, even playoff games, with the right kind of team around him.
This is not that team.
This team is without its best defensive player, Darrelle Revis, and its best offensive playmaker, Santonio Holmes. This team needs new receivers, new running backs and a new right tackle -- and that is only on offense.
This team threw every wrinkle at the Houston Texans on Monday night, except for putting Sanchez at cornerback. The Jets converted a fake punt. They returned a kickoff for a touchdown. They played a cornerback at wide receiver. Three players took direct snaps. This was gimmicky football, and at times it worked and confused the Texans.
Other times it confused the Jets.
Sanchez did not play poorly, although he did not play well. There were times he overthrew receivers, times he held the ball too long, times he looked skittish and confused. That is Sanchez, has been Sanchez, will be Sanchez unless the cast around him is improved.
Afterward, teammates rushed to his defense in ways they did not rush to the football. They said that Sanchez gave them a chance to win against the Texans, a team ranked among the N.F.L.'s best through the first quarter of the season. They noted his 230 passing yards. His scoring strike to Jeff Cumberland, he of the dropped second-to-last pass.
''It was a great effort,'' Joe McKnight said.
He, too, was right. If you believe in moral victories.
Sanchez's supporters have relied on the same argument for the past two seasons in regard to his credibility: that the Jets reached back-to-back A.F.C. championship games in his first two years as quarterback. They ignore important points. Those were better teams. More complete teams. Less injured teams. Sanchez was expected less to win games and more not to lose them. The Jets often won despite Sanchez, not because of him.
These Jets, the 2012 version, need Sanchez to carry them, as both injuries and losses mount. He has never proven equipped to do so.
The front office has not helped him. Behind Holmes, who limped through the locker room Monday night on crutches, the Jets are model thin at wide receiver. Their offensive line, which lost another irreplaceable piece in Nick Mangold for a stretch Monday, often fails to give Sanchez adequate time to throw.
The way Monday night unfolded, the Jets' best receiver was Jeremy Kerley, a fifth-round draft pick better suited for a complementary role. Their best tight end was Cumberland, who caught the touchdown but dropped the crucial pass. Their best playmaker was McKnight, the third-string running back who scored on the kick return.
Think Tom Brady would win with those guys? Think Aaron Rodgers would?
''We're not worried what anybody else thinks,'' Sanchez insisted afterward, although he sounded more like an engineer vouching for those really nice deck chairs on the Titanic. ''I know we have great personnel; we really do.''
That is your 2012 Jets team slogan: We're really trying!
Those are your 2012 Jets: 2-2 entering Monday night and still heavy underdogs at home, so in need of offense that unemployed castoffs like Terrell Owens clamor on social media to be signed, so in need of positive vibes that Mark Gastineau used his halftime ring of honor induction speech to chastise the fans for booing.
At the center of this mess is Sanchez. So much of what went wrong Monday night had nothing to do with him: the running backs who averaged three yards per carry; the line that sent him scampering about; the coaching staff that substituted Tim Tebow in and out.
Tebow, the popular backup quarterback, who overshadows the man he would replace, made his greatest impact yet for the Jets against the Texans. The cries for him to replace Sanchez will only grow louder and last longer.
That is the deal the Jets made when they traded for Tebow in the off-season. To some, the Jets simply upgraded at backup quarterback, but they failed to factor in the unintended consequences: its effect on Sanchez, all his shuttling in and out, the rhythm lost, the constant job threat.
Tebow and Sanchez said the right things again Monday. They want to help the team. They wished they could change a play or two. They would get this figured out. Still, the specter of Tebow and how he fits into this season and how he might perform compared with Sanchez lingered afterward, same as always, same as forever, unless the Jets hand Tebow their talent-bereft roster, at which point there is no turning back.
''He played better than his numbers indicate,'' Coach Rex Ryan said of Sanchez.
He was also right. Still, those numbers set a low bar. For the fourth consecutive game, Sanchez completed fewer than half his passes. For the third straight game, he threw an interception. For another game, the crowd booed him and chanted for his backup. This is what the Jets have created.
The Texans, meanwhile, reinforced two popular notions Monday night. The Jets are not a championship team as constructed. And Sanchez is not a championship quarterback.
With this roster, thin and now missing a host of injured players, there is no such thing as a championship quarterback.
In 2012, that is where the Jets have landed. It is not Sanchez's fault. And he is not the solution.
So how do they measure progress? A ''good loss'' on a Monday night?

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jets quarterback Mark Sanchez, center, did not play poorly in Monday's loss to Houston, although he did not play well. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON SZENES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B11)
 Houston's Brice McCain (21) returning an interception Monday. Jets quarterback Mark Sanchez also had a pass picked off on a deflection late in the fourth quarter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL BELLO/GETTY IMAGES) (B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); ATHLETES (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%); HOUSTON TEXANS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); TEXAS, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



381 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Forecast Discourages Investors

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks slumped Tuesday on Wall Street after the International Monetary Fund predicted weaker world economic growth and as investors waited for what they expect to be a disappointing series of corporate earnings reports.
The Dow Jones industrial average declined 110.12 points, or 0.8 percent, to 13,473.53. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 14.40 points, or 0.99 percent, to 1,441.48. The Nasdaq composite index fell 47.33 points, or 1.5 percent, to 3,065.02.
The slide came on the fifth anniversary of record high closes for the Dow and S.& P. 500.
Investors were discouraged by an International Monetary Fund report released overnight that said the global economy was weakening and the downturn afflicting developing nations has begun to spread.
The I.M.F. forecasts that the world economy will expand 3.3 percent this year, down from the estimate of 3.5 percent growth it issued in July. Its forecast for growth in 2013 is 3.6 percent, down from 4.1 percent in April.
After the market closed, Alcoa, the aluminum company, said it earned 3 cents a share in the most recent quarter after accounting for special charges. Wall Street was expecting the company to break even.
Alcoa stock ended the regular trading day up a penny at $9.13 and gained an additional 7 cents in the first half-hour after the earnings report.
Over all, analysts expect earnings at S.& P. 500 companies to be down compared with last year.
Earlier on Tuesday, the National Federation of Independent Business reported that business owners became more pessimistic in September because of the weak hiring environment and poor sales. But the number of owners who expect business conditions to improve in six months gained four percentage points. Those who thought it was a good time to expand rose three percentage points.
Energy stocks kept the market from closing even lower and were the only major group in the S.& P. 500 to finish higher. The price of crude oil jumped more than $3 a barrel to $92.39 because of supply concerns in the Middle East and the North Sea.
So-called consumer discretionary stocks, including companies like hotels and luxury stores that depend on a healthy economy, fell 1.5 percent as a group.
Stanley Black & Decker, the tool maker, fell $1.99, to $72.24, after saying it would sell its hardware and home-improvement business to Spectrum Brands Holdings for $1.4 billion in cash.
Spectrum Brands' stock jumped $4.88, or 11.9 percent, to $46.04. The company, which is based in Madison, Wis., owns the Rayovac, Remington and Toastmaster brands.
Interest rates were higher. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 23/32, to 99 7/32, and the yield rose to 1.71 percent from 1.74 percent late Friday. The bond market was closed on Monday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BONDS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (67%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (66%); TREASURY SECURITIES (61%); ANNIVERSARIES (55%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (52%); INTEREST RATES (50%); HOME REMODELING (50%)

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (55%); SPECTRUM BRANDS HOLDINGS INC (51%); STANLEY BLACK & DECKER INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (55%); AA (NYSE) (55%); SPB (NYSE) (51%); SWK (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (55%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (55%); NAICS335911 STORAGE BATTERY MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333991 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS332216 SAW BLADE & HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (50%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (72%); NORTH SEA (67%) MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



382 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1568 words

HEADLINE: Walk-In Clinics Filling Hospital Void Downtown

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS

 BODY:
The demise of St. Vincent's Hospital in Greenwich Village two years ago has led to a struggle for health care supremacy in some of New York's most distinctive neighborhoods, offering a glimpse, in the process, at what might be the future of urban medicine.
Without building a hospital, one large chain, Continuum Health Partners, is establishing a beachhead in Chelsea and the Village by connecting with outpatient clinics, trying to dominate the market and create a feeder network for its hospitals in other neighborhoods. It is joining forces not just with traditional clinics but also with newer experiments like doctors working out of drugstores. A competitor, NYU Langone Medical Center, is expanding its physician practices downtown, and like Continuum, it has hired dozens of stranded St. Vincent's doctors.
Several walk-in ''urgent care'' centers have also rushed into the vacuum left by St. Vincent's in Lower Manhattan, hoping to show that they are more efficient and consumer-friendly than a hospital-based system, but some have already begun to form relationships with the hospitals.
''We are still trying to figure out if we are a threat or an asset to each other, and we are probably both,'' said Dr. Alicia Salzer, co-founder of Medhattan, an urgent care center that opened in 2011 near ground zero at Liberty Street and Trinity Place.
The immediate fight is to win market share, the loyalty and business of the area's many affluent and well-insured residents. But the demise of St. Vincent's has also turned Lower Manhattan into a laboratory for health care reform. The new clinics and the maneuvering by large chains are anticipating an expansion of the number of people with insurance and changes in the way that health care is delivered and paid for. And they are testing the notion, long held by health planners, that the city can survive with fewer hospitals.
Many doctors and some Village residents were dismayed when St. Vincent's went bankrupt and closed, and consider the new health care choices in the area to be less than adequate.
''As a physician and general internist, other than a laceration, I would never send a patient to the urgent care center,'' said Dr. David Kaufman, who trained at St. Vincent's and spent more than 30 years working there.
But in its waning days, St. Vincent's was filling far fewer beds than it did during the AIDS crisis, and as is the case at other hospitals, many patients using its emergency room did not need emergency care, driving up costs.
While it is impossible to know whether local residents are worse off without the hospital, one 2009 study by analysts for the RAND Corporation found no adverse impact on quality, and significant cost savings, in the newer models of care.
The study looked at patients in a large Minnesota health plan who received care for sore throats, ear infections and urinary tract infections -- common complaints at retail clinics like the ones in drugstores. It found that the cost of care was 30 percent to 40 percent lower in those clinics than in physician's offices and urgent care centers, and 80 percent lower than in emergency departments, mainly because of lower reimbursement rates and less laboratory testing. It found that the rate of preventive care and overall quality of care was actually worse for patients who patronized emergency rooms for those ailments.
The researchers did raise concerns that the proliferation of urgent and retail care might lead people who otherwise would nurse minor illnesses at home to seek medical attention, raising the costs of health care to society. And they suggested that without good communication between different types of care, the health system might become even more fragmented.
''So you have more cooks over the pot, and that lack of continuity is a real frustration,'' said Dr. Ateev Mehrotra, a policy analyst at RAND, an associate professor at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine and the lead author of the study, published in the Annals of Internal Medicine.
As for worries that urgent care or retail clinics might miss serious diseases like cancer, Dr. Mehrotra said that the rarity of complications made that concern hard to assess, but that ''there would be a lot of malpractice suits, and we haven't seen that.''
Executives at Continuum, which runs five hospitals in New York City, say they expect their expansion into the community to form the foundation of an accountable care organization, a new model of care supported by the federal law that seeks to move patients out of hospitals as much as possible, and to reward health care organizations for working together to improve quality and cut costs.
From Eighth Street in the Village to 26th Street in Chelsea, between Ninth Avenue and Union Square, a patient can now choose from a dozen clinics or medical practices that have been opened or expanded by Continuum or are affiliated with it.
Continuum has also taken over the former St. Vincent's cancer center on 15th Street, and it has established a clinic with a focus on H.I.V. patients on 17th Street, renovating several floors and filling them with colorful pop art. Half of the doctors at the clinic, called the Center for Comprehensive Care, were hired from the old St. Vincent's H.I.V. program.
''Urgent care centers are opening at the pace of Starbucks, and we are affiliating with as many of them as we can,'' said Adam Henick, senior vice president of Ambulatory Care and Medical Enterprise for Continuum.
Continuum has also become affiliated with doctors practicing out of 13 Duane Reade drugstores in Manhattan and Brooklyn, and has a contract to expand to 20 within the next year or so, and to 50 within four years, said Dr. James A. D'Orta, chairman and chief executive of Consumer Health Services, which manages the practices in the pharmacies.
No money changes hands in the Duane Reade affiliations, Mr. Henick said, but there are indirect benefits for both sides. The hospital system checks doctors' credentials and provides -- and bills for -- laboratory, radiology and imaging services prescribed by the Duane Reade doctors. The system also gets a potential trove of patients referred by the clinics. The Duane Reade clinics earn the cachet of being associated with major hospitals, and as with other affiliated practices, the Duane Reade patients are given expedited access to Continuum specialists and direct access to hospital admission if needed.
While one goal of the federal health care overhaul is to move nonemergency patients from hospitals to cheaper outpatient care, there is significant cost variation among clinics, even among those that are part of Continuum's loose network. In a byzantine patchwork of state and federal law, some specialized clinics -- especially those treating H.I.V. or geriatric patients -- can be reimbursed several times as much for a patient visit as are private practices and urgent care centers.
Officials at NYU Langone Medical Center on the East Side said that they, too, were trying to expand their downtown market.
''Everything is intensely competitive and everyone is everywhere,'' said Dr. Andrew W. Brotman, its senior vice president and vice dean for clinical affairs and strategy.
The hospital system with perhaps the most to lose from the competition is the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System. It is renovating the 160,000-square-foot O'Toole building, across from the old St. Vincent's, as a free-standing emergency room, which expects to handle 50,000 visits a year. It will operate as an extension of Lenox Hill Hospital, a North Shore affiliate on the Upper East Side.
But the emergency room is not scheduled to open until 2014. Over the summer, North Shore was forced to close an interim clinic it had opened in Chelsea with a $9.4 million state grant. The clinic attracted an average of only two patients a day, which a hospital spokesman, Terry Lynam, attributed to its limited hours and ''the proliferation of urgent care'' in the neighborhood.
Michael J. Dowling, chief executive of North Shore, said he believed there was room to work collaboratively with Continuum and other health care providers in the neighborhood.
''Good hospitals are important, but you don't need more than you need,'' Mr. Dowling said. ''In many cases, we've been addicted to inpatient beds. We can't be addicted to them in the future.''
Word of the new options is trickling out, and some patients say they are not mourning St. Vincent's.
Michelle McKenzie, a social worker, said going to the St. Vincent's emergency room often meant hours of waiting and, in recent years, run-down facilities. She found Medhattan, the urgent care center, advertised on the bulletin board at Public School 3, where her 7-year-old son, Ian Etheridge, is a student. She has gone there to be treated for an allergic breakout of hives, and her husband took their son there a few months ago when he cut his forehead on the playground and needed stitches.
''I was seen immediately,'' Ms. McKenzie said. ''It wasn't crazy chaotic like St. Vincent's was. I only had to tell my story once, and I was treated by the same physician I told my story to.''
Dr. Charles Carpati, former chief of intensive care at St. Vincent's, now at Lenox Hill Hospital, said the community seemed to be coping without the old hospital.
''It's been very hard to show that people are dying because St. Vincent's is no longer there,'' Dr. Carpati said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Shari Stirling, a physician who practices out of a Duane Reade pharmacy in Lower Manhattan, sees a patient for a leg injury.
 Top, Dr. Leslie Miller, left, and Dr. Alicia Salzer at Medhattan, an urgent care center near ground zero. Above, Ian Etheridge, 7, in the West Village with his father. Ian got stitches at Medhattan after cutting his forehead at a playground months ago. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); URGENT CARE CENTERS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (76%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); MARKET SHARE (74%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



383 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: A Bigger Paycheck On Wall St.

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG and BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
It still pays to be on Wall Street.
The financial industry in New York has slashed jobs by the thousands over the last two years. For those who remain, annual compensation in total is at near-record levels, according to a report released Tuesday by the New York State comptroller.
Since the financial crisis, Wall Street firms have wrestled with two competing market forces. Faced with a heavier regulatory burden, a lethargic economic recovery and the loss of once-big moneymakers like complex derivatives tied to mortgages, the banks have instead tried to cut their biggest expense: people. Yet there persists a view on Wall Street that profits can't come simply by holding the line on costs - big pay is still needed to lure talent from other firms.
Toward that end, firms have sought to cut jobs and noncompensation expenses rather than compensation itself. Both Goldman Sachs and Bank of America have announced big noncompensation cost-cutting efforts over the past year, for example.
The result is that compensation over all continues to rise even as some shareholders press firms to cut costs further amid weak profit growth. (Nearly half of all revenue on Wall Street is earmarked for compensation; in 2009, Morgan Stanley, which was hit harder during the crisis than most of its rivals, found itself paying out a record 62 percent of its net revenue in compensation and benefits. That number has since come down.)
The report showed that total compensation on Wall Street last year rose 4 percent, to more than $60 billion. That was higher than any total except those in 2007 and 2008 - before the financial crisis fully took its toll on pay.
The average pay package of securities industry employees in New York State was $362,950, up 16.6 percent over the last two years.
"It's good work if you can get it," said Thomas P. DiNapoli, the comptroller.
The results are sure to raise eyebrows on Main Street and in Washington, where lavish pay packages have come under attack since the crisis.
Still, the report provides only a snapshot of Wall Street's finances. The wage data largely covers 2011. With the third quarter in the books, Wall Street firms will soon begin figuring out their bonus pool and how to distribute it. For some Wall Street professionals, the year-end bonus can easily account for more than half their total compensation.
Yet expectations for this year appear to be high, according to another study out on Tuesday. Some 48 percent of 911 Wall Street employees surveyed by eFinancialCareers.com said they felt their bonuses this year would higher than in 2011. That was an increase from 2011, when 41 percent of survey respondents said they believed their annual bonus would increase.
There, the comptroller's report was not encouraging, saying that a survey it took earlier in the year suggested that Wall Street's total cash bonus pool for 2012 was likely to decline for the second consecutive year.
The comptroller's report attested to the importance of financial services to New York City. Financial jobs accounted for nearly a quarter of all private sector wages paid in the city last year, even though they accounted for just a fraction, 5.3 percent, of the city's private sector jobs.
Over all, the annual report depicted a cloudy outlook for the financial industry and its thousands of employees.
"The securities industry remains in transition and volatility in profits and employment show that we have not yet reached the new normal," Mr. DiNapoli said.
After posting a "disappointing" $7.7 billion in earnings last year, Wall Street in the first half of 2012 earned $10.5 billion, he said. The industry "is on pace" to earn more than $15 billion by the end of the year.
But even with some signs of improvement, Wall Street is rapidly shedding jobs. The austerity efforts have claimed 1,200 positions so far this year, according to the report. Mr. DiNapoli estimated that the industry lost more than 20,000 jobs since late 2007.
"In the short run, as a way to keep profits up, the firms will drive down costs and that will mean contraction in the work force," Mr. DiNapoli said.
Goldman Sachs had 32,300 on the payroll at the end of its second quarter in June, down 3,200 people from the year-ago period. Bank of America has cut 12,624 employees over the past year, leaving it with 275,460 people.
Banks have also taken aim at lavish cash bonuses. The comptroller in February estimated that cash bonuses declined 13.5 percent, to $19.7 billion.
As Wall Street reins in cash payouts to top executives, the banks have been encouraged to reward employees with more stock and other long-term compensation. Some people argue that such a move discourages outsize risk-taking and ties an employee's interest to the long-term health of the bank.
While pay remains high across the board, senior executive pay has fallen since the financial crisis. In 2007, the year before the financial crisis, Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, made $68.5 million. In 2011 he took home $12 million.
For an executive like Mr. Blankfein, $12 million may be a pay cut, but it is still a princely sum compared with other industries. Between 2009 and 2011, compensation in the securities industry grew at an average annual rate of 8.7 percent, outpacing 5.3 percent for the rest of the private sector.
"Whether you love or hate people on Wall Street, they are spending money that is driving our economy," Mr. DiNapoli said.
New York State Comptroller's Report on Securities Industry (PDF) New York State Comptroller's Report on Securities Industry (Text)
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Outside the New York Stock Exchange in the financial district, where jobs have been pared back. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); SALARY SURVEYS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); BONUS PAY (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



384 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: The Justices Weigh Race and Admissions

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Race and College Admissions, Facing a New Test by Justices'' (front page, Oct. 9), about the Supreme Court affirmative action case, to be heard on Wednesday, involving the University of Texas at Austin:
You quote a student as saying race-conscious admissions were needed to address ''disparities in opportunity between high schools, which disproportionately affect minorities.''
Why, though, should minorities get an advantage and non-minorities the opposite? Those applicants on the wrong end of the disparities in opportunity should be considered more favorably, but that is completely independent of race. There may be a correlation, but there are plenty of whites facing hardship, economic or otherwise, and plenty of minorities who aren't.
Institutions should give the benefit of extra consideration to those who have made the best of limited opportunities. To give that benefit to someone solely on the basis of race is the very definition of racism. Isn't that exactly what we're trying to avoid?
PETE ROKOSZ Madison, Wis., Oct. 9, 2012
The writer is a student at the University of Wisconsin.
To the Editor:
Re ''Moving Beyond Affirmative Action'' (Op-Ed, Oct. 5): Thomas J. Espenshade points out that only 1 percent of all Hispanic and black 18-year-olds benefit from affirmative action. Having been at a university that practiced affirmative action, I can say that that 1 percent makes a huge difference in terms of campus culture and the lives of their own families and future families.
Those 1 percent become leaders in their communities, and they will lead many more to higher education. Mr. Espenshade says more minority students report their experiences to be negative than do white students. As a minority student, I, too, had a more nuanced college experience, but that doesn't mean that I have not benefited immensely from graduating from an elite private university.
Ultimately, how can he judge who should attend these universities?
NIDA ABDULLA Berkeley Heights, N.J., Oct. 6, 2012
The writer, a graduate of Brown University, is a high school English teacher.
To the Editor:
Thomas J. Espenshade argues that abolition of affirmative action by the United States Supreme Court might prompt elite colleges and universities to shift their endowments to support outreach efforts to K-12 schools, aimed at narrowing the racial and ethnic achievement gap.
Aside from being extremely unlikely, his argument ignores another, more ominous outcome: An overly broad Supreme Court decision rejecting affirmative action in college admissions would likely curtail K-12 desegregation efforts and thus deepen the savage inequalities in our nation's schools.
SAUL GEISER Albany, Calif., Oct. 5, 2012
The writer is a research associate at the Center for Studies in Higher Education, University of California, Berkeley.
To the Editor:
Thomas J. Espenshade tells us that in 2003 Justice Sandra Day O'Connor wrote that she expected affirmative action preferences to disappear within 25 years. At a conference on affirmative action at the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, where I was program director, I sensed an uneasiness with the topic on the part of Constance Baker Motley, an African-American judge, and at a conference break I asked her why. ''I despise the necessity to do this 'reverse discriminating,' '' she said, ''but I swear to you that we will end it in 25 years.''
The year of her comment was 1976 -- 36 years ago.
OTIS L. GRAHAM Jr. Santa Barbara, Calif., Oct. 5, 2012
The writer is professor emeritus of history at the University of California, Santa Barbara.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); WRITERS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); RACE & RACISM (87%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); APPEALS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); ETHNICITY (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



385 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: A Building Boom in New York Hotel Rooms

BYLINE: By ROLAND LI

 BODY:
Defying the sluggish global economy, New York's hotel sector is growing at a record-breaking pace.
In 2011, developers added 4,404 new hotel rooms to the city's existing 74,025 rooms, an annual increase of 5.9 percent and the highest on record, according to Smith Travel Research and the commercial real estate brokerage Cushman & Wakefield.
Supply is projected to increase by 3.5 percent in 2012 and 4.1 percent in 2013. From 2005 to 2010, hotel room supply grew by 16.2 percent, for an average of only 3.24 percent annually.
New hotels range from high-end boutiques in Greenwich Village and Chelsea to budget chains in less fashionable parts of Brooklyn and Queens. In addition to the new rooms, large existing hotels have undergone major renovations, including the former New York Helmsley Hotel which reopened earlier this month as the Westin Grand Central after a $75 million overhaul. 
The hotel building boom has been buoyed by occupancy rates and revenues that have rebounded close to prerecession levels. Tourists and business travelers have filled up the new rooms, despite the European debt crisis and economic slowdown in Asia. The citywide occupancy rate fell to 77 percent in 2009 after the financial crisis, but it has rebounded to more than 80 percent in each of the last three years.
''Occupancy really has not dropped off through all this increase,'' said Thomas P. McConnell, executive managing director of Cushman & Wakefield's hotel transactions group.
Last year, tourism increased by 3.5 percent to a record 50.5 million visitors, according to NYC and Company, the city's official tourism group. In fact, New York is the strongest of the largest 25 United States markets by occupancy, according to Smith Travel Research.
Total revenue also rebounded to $7.21 billion in 2011, after plunging 22.6 percent to $5.48 billion in 2009, according to Smith Travel Research.
''A lot of Fortune 1,000 companies have unspent capital. The easy way to deploy it is to put it into travel and training,'' said Jan D. Freitag, executive vice president of Smith Travel Research. ''It seems that there's this unalienable right to travel.''
The strong fundamentals have encouraged new hotels in virtually every Manhattan neighborhood, with developers fighting to differentiate themselves through design, marketing or location.
One of the most popular new hotel types is the small, high-end boutique, like the 113-room Jade Hotel, which will open on West 13th Street in Greenwich Village at the end of October.
The Jade's developer, William T. Obeid, president and chief executive of Gemini Real Estate Advisors, could have built a rental building on the site, but he saw continued strength in tourism and a lack of hotels in the area.
''I saw the fundamentals of the hospitality business begin to change in March 2010. We knew we had to reignite 13th Street,'' said Mr. Obeid, whose company manages six other hotels in Manhattan. ''New York remains one of the most traveled destinations in the world.''
Andres Escobar designed the Jade's interiors and said that Mr. Obeid ''wanted to blend into the Village,'' which is why Mr. Escobar used materials like Macassar ebony wood and marble to evoke an old world style. The Jade also has a restaurant operated by Frederick Lesort called Grapevine, an homage to the Village's 19th century speakeasy of the same name. Nightly room rates begin at $400.
Denihan Hospitality Group, an independent owner and operator of boutique hotels, is looking at three development sites in Manhattan's financial district, Chelsea and in Midtown. ''We've seen a traveler preference away from large brands and homogeneity, toward distinctive hotels with personality, where the traveler feels connected to the community instead of a generic box,'' said David J. Duncan, president of Denihan, which operates hotels in New York, including the James Hotel in SoHo and the Affinia brand.
Developers are also converting old commercial buildings into hotels, which are cheaper and quicker to complete than building from scratch. Older office buildings with small floorplates are well-suited for hotels, and they can be converted in commercial zoning districts where residential is forbidden, said Mr. McConnell of Cushman & Wakefield.
The Flatiron district has become a hotbed for such conversions. At the Metropolitan Life Tower, the clock tower overlooking Madison Square Park, Marriott International and the hotelier Ian Schrager are planning an upscale hotel conversion after buying the property for $165 million from Africa Israel USA last October.
Five blocks north, the Sydell Group, the investor Ron Burkle and Square Mile Capital converted an aging Art Deco office building into the NoMad Hotel for $100 million. The 168-room hotel, at 1170 Broadway, opened in March.
The Sydell Group previously converted the nearby Ace Hotel at 20 West 29th Street. Andrew E. Zobler, chief executive of the Sydell Group, said the Ace was one of the first hotels to have an active lobby, which regularly presents live music, helping to lure customers. ''I think people are yearning for more of an experience,'' he said.
Big hotel operators are also working to refresh their larger properties through renovations. The public real estate investment trust Host Hotels & Resorts spent $75 million to renovate the former Helmsley Hotel, converting it to the Westin Grand Central operated by Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide. The 774-room hotel on East 42nd Street operated throughout construction.
Across town in Times Square, Host Hotels is also completing a three-year, $39 million renovation of the Marriott Marquis at 1535 Broadway, one of the city's largest hotels with 1,949 rooms. The company focused on the public ballrooms and lobbies, in addition to modernizing guest rooms. ''They really wanted to reinvent the space and create a focal point,'' said Robert J. Marsh, the director of project management at Turner & Townsend Ferzan Robbins, which oversaw construction.
Developers are also aiming at neighborhoods in Queens and Brooklyn near transit hubs, including Williamsburg, Downtown Brooklyn and Long Island City. The outer boroughs accounted for 42 percent of all new hotels from 2006 to 2011, according to NYC and Company. ''It's been a tremendous area for growth,'' said Edward R. Eschmann, a director of valuation and advisory services for CBRE Group.
New projects include Two Trees Management Company's 72-room Wythe Hotel in Williamsburg, with nightly rates of $179 to $495, and an Aloft hotel in Downtown Brooklyn opened by Starwood Hotels & Resorts.
Starwood Capital Group, led by Barry S. Sternlicht, and Toll Brothers, the nation's largest public luxury homebuilder, plan to build a mixed-use project with 200 hotel rooms and 159 condos at Brooklyn Bridge Park.
Large stand-alone hotel projects are rarely built now because high density sites are usually turned into offices or residential buildings. But one exception is a new 70-story tower under construction at 1717 Broadway, which will include a 261-room Residence Inn on the floors above a 378-room Courtyard by Marriott, making it the tallest all-hotel building in the United States. Extell Development's One57, designed as the tallest residential tower in the country, will have a 210-room Park Hyatt Hotel on its lower floors when it opens in 2013.
New York hotels also appeal to foreign firms, which see them as a safe haven for capital. ''The hospitality market is absolutely on fire,'' said Alan P. Miller, the executive managing director of the brokerage company Eastern Consolidated. This year, India's Sahara Group bought a majority stake in the landmark Plaza Hotel for $570 million and Beijing-based HNA Property Holding Group bought the Cassa Hotel at 70 West 45th Street for $130 million.
''I think for the long term, New York is a great hotel market,'' said Mr. Zobler of the Sydell Group. ''Generally, it's very hard to be a developer and not be optimistic.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Jade Hotel, above, a boutique hotel with 113 rooms, under construction on West 13th Street. Left, one of the rooms at the hotel, which is expected to open later this month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ÁNGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LODGING (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); EURO CRISIS (52%)

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (57%); NEW YORK HELMSLEY HOTEL (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (57%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2012



386 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Netanyahu Announces Earlier Vote In Israel

BYLINE: By JODI RUDOREN; Isabel Kershner and Gabby Soleman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel on Tuesday called for elections early next year instead of as scheduled in October 2013, saying that conversations with his coalition partners had proved it would be impossible to pass ''a responsible budget'' with deep cuts.
''Sadly, parties and factions find it difficult to put aside their personal interests and prioritize national interests,'' Mr. Netanyahu said in a five-minute speech timed to the start of the nightly news here. ''The good of the State of Israel requires going to elections now, and as quickly as possible. It is preferable for Israel to have a short election campaign of three months rather than what would effectively end up a yearlong campaign that would damage the Israeli economy.'' 
The balloting could be as early as Jan. 15, but many here have speculated it would be set for mid-February, which would make Mr. Netanyahu's the first Israeli government in more than two decades to complete a four-year term. A victory around the same time that the United States is either inaugurating a new president or starting a second Obama term would probably embolden the prime minister, allowing him to continue his aggressive approach toward Iran, while mostly ignoring the Palestinian conflict.
The campaign begins with the prime minister and his right-leaning Likud Party in strong positions, political analysts said, while the center is fragmented, and Shelly Yacimovich, the leader of the Labor Party, has little credibility with the public for the top job because she lacks security credentials.
With his recent speech to the United Nations General Assembly saying the spring would be the critical deadline for stopping Iran from having the capacity to develop a nuclear bomb, Mr. Netanyahu helped ensure that his signature issue would be at the center of the campaign debate. True to form, he mentioned Iran and other security matters repeatedly in his short statement, a bullet-point version of his likely stump speech.
Analysts here said the critical question of the campaign was not whether Mr. Netanyahu would win, but whether he would retain what are known as his ''natural allies'' -- right-wing and religious parties -- or make a move to the center to form a broader, or at least different, coalition, perhaps with different priorities. ''The battle is really on the center,'' said Abraham Diskin, a political scientist at Hebrew University and the Interdisciplinary Center in Herzliya. ''I'm sure he will try to form a coalition with centrist parties.''
Mr. Netanyahu originally announced in May that the time had come for a new vote, only to reverse course the next day with a secret late-night deal to form a so-called unity government with the leader of the Kadima Party, Shaul Mofaz.
That partnership unraveled two months later over a failure to resolve the question of how many ultra-Orthodox yeshiva students should be exempt from military service, an issue that has since faded from public discussion, to the chagrin of Mr. Mofaz, who on Tuesday described the election as ''an opportunity to replace Netanyahu's bad government that had isolated Israel, damaged its deterrence, and weakened its middle class.''
One wild card is Tzipi Livni, who was ousted as head of Kadima early this year and is weighing a re-entry, perhaps heading a new party or joining with Ms. Yacimovich. Writing on Facebook Tuesday night, Ms. Livni did not reveal her plans but said, ''Today Israel needs to re-examine its path.''
Gabriel Weimann, a professor of communication at the University of Haifa, said he was struck by the fact that Mr. Netanyahu did not mention his Likud Party as he highlighted accomplishments of the past four years.
''He spoke about give me the mandate again, trust me again, re-elect me,'' Professor Weimann said. ''This is going to be a very, very personal type of election.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Netanyahu 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (67%); SCIENCE NEWS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); RELIGION (50%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (90%) ISRAEL (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2012



387 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Accuses Wells Fargo Of Lying About Mortgages

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
United States prosecutors sued Wells Fargo on Tuesday, accusing it of lying about the quality of the mortgages it handled under a federal housing program. It was the latest in a series of lawsuits related to banks' lending practices during the housing boom.
In a lawsuit filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan, the prosecutors accused Wells Fargo, the country's largest originator of home loans, of defrauding the government for more than a decade. The bank recklessly issued mortgages and then made false certifications about their condition to the Federal Housing Administration, a government agency that insured them, the complaint said. 
The problematic loans were not eligible for the government insurance, according to the lawsuit, and when they soured, the F.H.A. was obligated to cover the losses. The Justice Department is seeking hundreds of millions of dollars in damages.
"Yet another major bank has engaged in a longstanding and reckless trifecta of deficient training, deficient underwriting and deficient disclosure, all while relying on the convenient backstop of government insurance," Preet S. Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan, whose office filed the lawsuit, said in a statement.
Wells Fargo denied the accusations, saying that it had acted in good faith and in compliance with the F.H.A. program.
"Wells Fargo is the leading F.H.A. lender and has acted as a prudent and responsible lender, with F.H.A. delinquency rates that have been as low as half the industry average," the bank said in a statement. "The bank will present facts to vigorously defend itself against this action."
The action against Wells Fargo came after many civil lawsuits were filed by the government against large banks related to their lending practices. A number of the banks have settled the cases, including Deutsche Bank, which paid more than $200 million to resolve civil fraud charges; Citigroup's Citimortgage unit, which settled claims for $158 million; and Bank of America, in a settlement connected to its Countrywide Financial business, for $1 billion.
To bring these cases, the government has used an obscure law called the Financial Institutions Reform, Recover, and Enforcement Act. The law, passed after the saving-and-loans scandals in the late 1980s, gives the government broad authority to bring civil claims and seek big financial penalties against federally insured banks. That law also has a lower standard of proof than criminal business fraud statutes.
Despite these civil actions against the large banks, the Justice Department has been criticized for bringing too few criminal cases against banks and their executives tied to their conduct during the housing boom and financial crisis. Prosecutors have said these cases are difficult to bring because they require proving an intent to defraud beyond a reasonable doubt.
The complaint depicts a mortgage factory inside Wells Fargo that was singularly focused on increasing the bank's loan volumes - and profits - while ignoring the quality of the loans.
"Management's actions included hiring temporary staff to churn out and approve an ever-increasing quantity of F.H.A. loans, failing to provide its inexperienced staff with proper training, paying improper bonuses to its underwriters to incentivize them to approve as many F.H.A. loans as possible, and applying pressure on loan officers and underwriters to originate and approve more and more F.H.A. loans as quickly as possible," the lawsuit said.
Wells Fargo knew about the vast number of deficient loans but concealed them from the F.H.A., according to the government's complaint.
The case was assigned to Judge Jesse M. Furman, one of the newest federal judges in Manhattan. Mr. Furman, 40, a former federal prosecutor, assumed a seat on the bench in February 2012.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan, said the bank defrauded the government for more than a decade. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANNON STAPLETON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CREDIT REGULATION (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); DAMAGES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (76%); SCANDALS (76%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%); BK (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2012



388 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1544 words

HEADLINE: Nibbled to Death

BYLINE: By PETE WELLS

 BODY:
ONE of the most inviting openings to a restaurant meal I've ever heard came when I had closed the menu at Bouley and a server asked, ''What shall we cook for you this evening?'' The question managed to suggest that my choices would bring the kitchen intense pleasure, and that the pleasure would be returned to me many times over.
Compare this with the words of another server this year at an unnamed restaurant that offered tasting menus of several lengths. When I said I would tackle the whole megillah, a 12-course $245 spectacular, this was the response: ''O.K., I'll go get that started for you.''
If the server at Bouley had made me a partner in an imminent adventure, this one turned me into a cog in an invisible machine. The machine would operate for a fixed length of time, and my function would be to eat anything it produced until the gears stopped turning and I was allowed to leave. 
Not all tasting menus get off to such an awkward start. Even so, when I face a marathon of dishes chosen by the restaurant, I often feel the same trapped, helpless sensation.
In the hands of a chef who grasps the challenges and possibilities of the form, a tasting menu can yield a succession of delights that a shorter meal could never contain.
At other times, though, the consumer of such a meal may feel as much like a victim as a guest. The reservation is hard won, the night is exhausting, the food is cold, the interruptions are frequent. The courses blur, the palate flags and the check stings.
I'm getting used to that sting. Across the country, expensive tasting-menu-only restaurants are spreading like an epidemic.
This year in New York, two such places were born, Atera and Blanca, while two other restaurants, Eleven Madison Park and WD-50, dropped their à la carte menus in favor of all-or-nothing tastings.
Many of these restaurants are hits, with long waiting lists for their limited number of seatings. They have been hailed by critics (including this one) and by Restaurant Magazine's suspect-but-influential ranking of the World's 50 Best Restaurants. The Michelin Guide to New York, published last week, piled on, awarding three such restaurants three stars, pinning two stars on two more, and giving one star to two others.
A high-end anomaly a few years ago, three- or four-hour menus now look like the future of fine dining. Before corner delis begin parceling sandwiches into 18-course pastrami tastings, it's worth asking if this is the future we want.
I am not talking here about Japanese kaiseki or omakase menus. Both are old traditions with underlying structures that chefs and diners understand. The kind of tasting menu I mean is a younger, more free-form invention, championed at destination restaurants like the French Laundry, Per Se, Noma and Alinea. Being so new, the genre has no rules and few limits.
This is a challenge no chef should saunter into casually. A restaurant whose sole product is an expensive, lengthy, take-it-or-leave-it meal sets a dauntingly high bar for itself. And a few of them vault right over it with a grace and agility that are truly thrilling.
At Benu in San Francisco, Corey Lee's menus are breathtaking explorations of the potential for treating Asian flavors with a modern American sensibility, and the look and flavor of each fresh course are surprising. In a quieter voice, Christopher Kostow of the Restaurant at Meadowood in St. Helena, Calif., puts together menus that gently unfold as meditations on the season and the region.
César Ramirez of the Chef's Table at Brooklyn Fare has an almost supernatural gift for seafood cookery and noncookery, assembling meals that build from a salvo of sashimi-like bites to more complex hot dishes, made with ingredients of staggering quality. Technical mastery and a sensitivity to nature's forms distinguish Matthew Lightner's tastings at Atera in Manhattan.
The tasting menu reaches what may be its most sophisticated American form at Alinea in Chicago, where Grant Achatz composes meals that are almost like symphonies in their skillful manipulation of complexity, volume, tempo and harmony.
In other cases, though, much of the work of clearing that high bar falls to the heaving, struggling patron.
Making each course as different as possible from the last is not just a chance for chef to show off; it's necessary to keep the diner's attention. During an epic evening at Saison in San Francisco, I was often amazed by the way Joshua Skenes coaxed extra flavor from his ingredients through ancient means like dry-aging, curing, fermenting, smoking and grilling over fire. But some of the courses, more than 20 in all, were repetitive in ingredients or preparation, and others felt like padding. I walked out dazed when I could have been dazzled.
Wylie Dufresne's vision has been consistent from the day he opened WD-50 in 2003. But a recent tasting menu there was, perhaps, consistent to a fault. Almost every plate was composed the way Mr. Dufresne used to put together his appetizers and entrees when he still served them; nothing broke the pattern. Rather than using the tasting menu to tell a different story, WD-50 tells the same story more often. Mr. Dufresne is one of the least boring chefs in the country, and his plates never lack originality, but the shadow of monotony loomed over the meal by the end.
If a meal goes on for hours, even radical costume changes from course to course may not be enough. Daniel Humm has rounded up an amazing variety of ideas for his new $195 tastings at Eleven Madison Park. But I wasn't sure why he was presenting so many at once. Some of the menu was based on classic New York dishes, but a lot wasn't, and I struggled to find a single point of view.
The shapelessness of certain tasting menus might be blamed in part on a broken feedback loop. A restaurant that sells appetizers, main courses and entrees quickly learns which ones customers like. But one-bite dishes rarely come back to the kitchen untouched, so the chef has little chance to learn what customers think. Asking ''How was everything?'' of somebody who has just consumed 27 items isn't likely to produce constructive criticism.
These restaurants can deviate from old-fashioned notions of hospitality in other ways. The ideal of serving a hot meal has been increasingly a lost cause, given how quickly a morsel the size of a cat's tongue will cool.
The strangest of all the anti-hospitality gestures, though, is the delayed-bread power play. For centuries, good hosts have placed bread on the table. Blanca, Momofuku Ko and other restaurants do the same thing, and their bread is often superb, but the meal is about half over before it appears. When I've asked about this, I've been told that the chef didn't want diners to fill up on bread. When did it become a restaurant's job to keep its customers from feeling full?
It's rather unaccommodating when those customers are giving up unusual amounts of time, control and, of course, money. Dining at the upper tiers will never be cheap, but tasting menus have made some of the country's greatest restaurants into luxury goods. A meal at the Chef's Table at Brooklyn Fare is now $225; it was $135 at the beginning of 2011. It's true that Mr. Ramirez buys more expensive ingredients than he once did, but it's also true that in the same period, accolades for the restaurant piled up while the number of seats remained constant at 18.
A small restaurant serving a set menu to just a few customers each night can transcend the normal laws of restaurant economics. Everybody knows how much a plate of chicken should cost in a fancy New York restaurant, but what is the value of 30 courses you haven't seen yet? You're not buying 30 courses, of course. You're buying a ticket to a show that is probably going to sell out, which leaves the restaurant free to charge scalper's prices if it likes.
It's my job to urge readers to try the best, so I can't feel good about watching great restaurants that were already serving an elite audience taking themselves further out of reach. (Several tasting-menu restaurants serve lower-priced options in their lounges; WD-50 also offers a shorter, cheaper tasting of its greatest hits over the years.)
And the elite who now fill these dining rooms are a particular kind of diner, the big-game hunters out to bag as many trophy restaurants as they can. Another kind of eater, the lusty, hungry ones who keep a mental map of the most delicious things to eat around town, may be left outside.
That's one reason these dining rooms can feel less lively. A monoculture of earnest foodies has replaced the old biodiversity in which senior partners taking out the sales team from Atlanta would sit next to couples on blind dates. You can't eat a meal like this with a passing acquaintance since you'll be together for hours, but you can't go with somebody you really want to talk to, either, since there's little time between courses for sustained conversation.
Once in a while, I've had tasting menus so extraordinary that none of these things seemed to matter. But the format presents formidable hurdles for customers and restaurants, enough to cause us to stop and wonder how many more meals like this we need. Not every novel should be ''War and Peace.'' Sometimes, enough really is enough.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: COURSE 1: An Atera menu started with a caviar macaron.
COURSE 2: Coriander and flaxseed cookie.
COURSE 3: Black-pudding wafer with pork fat and huckleberry.
COURSE 4: Pickled quail egg.
COURSE 5: A mini lobster roll on a meringue bun.
COURSE 6: Sunflowers and sunchoke purée.
COURSE 7: Razor clam mousse in baguette.
COURSE 8: Fried lichen.
COURSE 9: Bass skin, with herb aioli.
COURSE 10: Swordfish jamón.
COURSE 11: Charred leek with sheep's milk yogurt.
COURSE 12: Sea urchin with wild berries and tomato ice.
COURSE 13: Scallop, sake lees and frozen sour apple.
COURSE 14: Artichoke and steamed peekytoe crab in herb broth.
COURSE 15: Lamb tartare.(D1)
COURSE 16: Duck hearts with raw vegetables.
COURSE 17: Noodles in roasted chicken bouillon.
NOW THERE'S BREAD: A slice of rye bread.
COURSE 18: Dried beet with smoked trout roe.
MORE BREAD: A pork roll.
COURSE 19: Roasted hake with walnuts and daisies.
COURSE 20: Duck breast with rosehip emulsion.
COURSE 21: Beef with matsutake and sunchoke.
AND MORE BREAD: A seeded roll. COURSE 22: Rose in wildflower sherbet.
COURSE 23: Dried tomato with raw-milk ice cream.
COURSE 24: Vanilla birch candy and sweet fern.
COURSE 25: Churro, with chocolate.
COURSE 26: Pumpkin bread with brown butter sediment.
 COURSE 28: Chocolate truffle in garrapiñada. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2012



389 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds That the Number of Protestant Americans Is in Steep Decline

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

 BODY:
For the first time since researchers began tracking the religious identity of Americans, fewer than half said they were Protestants, a steep decline from 40 years ago when Protestant churches claimed the loyalty of more than two-thirds of the population.
A new study released on Tuesday by the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life found that it was not just liberal mainline Protestants, like Methodists or Episcopalians, who abandoned their faith, but also more conservative evangelical and ''born again'' Protestants. The losses were among white Protestants, but not among black or minority Protestants, the study found, based on surveys conducted during the summer. 
When they leave, instead of switching churches, they join the growing ranks who do not identify with any religion. Nearly one in five Americans say they are atheist, agnostic or ''nothing in particular.''
This is a significant jump from only five years ago, when adults who claimed ''no religion'' made up about 15 percent of the population. It is a seismic shift from 40 years ago, when about 7 percent of American adults said they had no religious affiliation.
Now, more than one-third of those ages 18 to 22 are religiously unaffiliated. These ''younger millennials'' are replacing older generations who remained far more involved with religion throughout their lives.
''We really haven't seen anything like this before,'' said Gregory A. Smith, a senior researcher with the Pew Forum. ''Even when the baby boomers came of age in the early '70s, they were half as likely to be unaffiliated as compared with young people today.''
The ''Nones,'' as they are called, now make up the nation's second-largest religious grouping. The largest single faith group is Catholics, who make up about 22 percent of the population. Their numbers have held steady, mostly because an influx of immigrants has replaced the many Catholics who were raised in the church and left in the last five years, Mr. Smith said.
The rise in people who claim no religion is likely to have political consequences, said Phil Zuckerman, a professor of sociology and secular studies at Pitzer College in Southern California.
''The significant majority of the religiously unaffiliated tend to be left-leaning, tend to support the Democratic Party, support gay marriage and environmental causes,'' he said.
The Pew report offers several theories to explain the rise of the religiously unaffiliated. One theory is that the young adults grew disillusioned with organized religion when evangelical Protestant and Catholic churches became so active in conservative political causes, like opposition to homosexuality and abortion.
Another theory is that the shift merely reflects a broader trend away from social and community involvement, the phenomenon dubbed ''bowling alone'' by Robert D. Putnam, a public policy professor at Harvard University.
Another explanation is that the United States is simply following the trend toward secularization already seen in many economically developed countries, like Australia and Canada and some in Europe.
The United States has always been the great exception to this secularizing trend, and it is not clear that Americans are necessarily moving toward the European model.
The Pew report found that even among Americans who claimed no religion, few qualified as purely secular. Two-thirds say they still believe in God, and one-fifth say they pray every day. Only 12 percent of the religiously unaffiliated group said they were atheists and 17 percent agnostic.
The Rev. Eileen W. Lindner, who has chronicled religious statistics for years as the editor of the Yearbook of American and Canadian Churches, has observed this complexity.
She said, ''There will be lots of people who read this study and go: 'Oh no, this is terrible! What's it doing to our culture?' I would, as a social scientist and a pastor, urge caution.
''A lot of the younger people are very spotty in their attendance at worship, but if we have a mission project, they're here,'' said Ms. Lindner, the pastor of a Presbyterian church in New Jersey. ''They run the soup kitchens, they build the houses in Habitat for Humanity.''
They may not come on Sundays, she said, but they have not abandoned their faith.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A cross-shaped window at an Indianapolis church. Fewer than half of Americans are Protestant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS BERGIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (96%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TRENDS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); PUBLIC POLICY (62%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); ABORTION (60%); MARRIAGE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2012



390 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Long Live Paper

BYLINE: By JUSTIN B. HOLLANDER. 
Justin B. Hollander is an assistant professor of urban and environmental policy and planning at Tufts University and the author of ''Sunburnt Cities: The Great Recession, Depopulation and Urban Planning in the American Sunbelt.''

 BODY:
Medford, Mass.
LAST week, Education Secretary Arne Duncan declared a war on paper textbooks. ''Over the next few years,'' he said in a speech at the National Press Club, ''textbooks should be obsolete.'' In their place would come a variety of digital-learning technologies, like e-readers and multimedia Web sites.
Such technologies certainly have their place. But Secretary Duncan is threatening to light a bonfire to a tried-and-true technology -- good old paper -- that has been the foundation for one of the great educational systems on the planet. And while e-readers and multimedia may seem appealing, the idea of replacing an effective learning platform with a widely hyped but still unproven one is extremely dangerous.
A renowned expert on reading, Maryanne Wolf, has recently begun studying the effects of digital reading on learning, and so far the results are mixed. She worries that Internet reading, in particular, could be such a source of distractions for the student that they may cancel out most other potential benefits of a Web-linked, e-learning environment. And while it's true that the high-tech industry has sponsored substantial amounts of research on the potential benefits of Web-based learning, not enough time has passed for longitudinal studies to demonstrate the full effects.
In addition, digital-reading advocates claim that lightweight e-books benefit students' backs and save schools money. But the rolling backpack seems to have solved the weight problem, and the astounding costs to outfit every student with an e-reader, provide technical support and pay for regular software updates promise to make the e-textbook a very pricey option.
As both a teacher who uses paper textbooks and a student of urban history, I can't help but wonder what parallels exist between my own field and this sudden, wholesale abandonment of the technology of paper.
For example, when cars began to fill America's driveways, and new highways were laid across the land, the first thing cities did was encourage the dismantling of our train systems. Streetcar lines were torn up. A result, for many cities, was to rip apart the urban core and run highways through it, which only accelerated the flow of residents, commerce and investment to the suburbs.
But in recent years, new streetcar lines have been built or old systems extended in places like Pittsburgh, Jersey City and Phoenix. They are casting aside a newer technology in favor of an older one.
This lesson of technology-inspired extinction can be retold in many other domains of life: the way phonographs nearly disappeared when the music CD was invented; the rejection of bicycles in the middle of the 20th century; the shuttering of Polaroid factories with the advent of digital cameras.
My point is not that these are all pernicious or reversible developments. On the contrary, we have all benefited from new advances in medicine, communications and computing, even those that displaced familiar technologies.
The Polaroid is a wonderful device for what it is, but it will and should remain a technological novelty. On the other hand, few higher-tech formats deliver the lush sound quality of the vinyl record, and younger generations have recently returned to the format.
In other words, we shouldn't jump at a new technology simply because it has advantages; only time and study will reveal its disadvantages and show the value of what we've left behind.
Which brings us back to paper. With strength and durability that could last thousands of years, paper can preserve information without the troubles we find when our most cherished knowledge is stuck on an unreadable floppy disk or lost deep in the ''cloud.''
Paper textbooks can be stored and easily referenced on a shelf. Data are as easy to retrieve from paper as reaching across your desk for a textbook. They are easy to read and don't require a battery or plug. Though the iPad and e-readers have increasingly better screen clarity, the idea that every time a person reads a book, newspaper or magazine in the near future they will require an energy source is frightening.
The digitization of information offers important benefits, including instant transmission, easy searchability and broad distribution. But before we shred the last of the paper textbooks, let us pause and remember those old streetcars, and how great it would be if we still had them around.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PIA BRAMLEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); TEXTBOOKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); HISTORY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); CITIES (67%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (66%); CITY LIFE (62%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (61%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (60%); SUBURBS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (84%)

PERSON: ARNE DUNCAN (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



391 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1865 words

HEADLINE: Romney's Trade Message and Bain's China Ties

BYLINE: By SHARON LaFRANIERE and MIKE McINTIRE; Keith Bradsher contributed reporting from Beijing. Amy Qin and Shi Da contributed research from Beijing. &#xA0

 BODY:
The tale of Asimco Technologies, an auto parts manufacturer whose plants dot eastern China, would seem to underscore Mitt Romney's campaign-trail complaint that China's manufacturing juggernaut is costing America jobs.
Nine years ago, the company bought two camshaft factories that employed about 500 people in Michigan. By 2007 both were shut down. Now Asimco manufactures the same components in China on government-donated land in a coastal region that China has designated an export base, where companies are eligible for the sort of subsidies Mr. Romney says create an unfair trade imbalance.
But there is a twist to the Asimco story that would not fit neatly into a Romney stump speech: Since 2010, it has been owned by Bain Capital, the private equity firm founded by Mr. Romney, who has as much as $2.25 million invested in three Bain funds with large stakes in Asimco and at least seven other Chinese businesses, according to his 2012 candidate financial disclosure and other documents.
That and other China-related holdings by Bain funds in which Mr. Romney has invested are a reminder of how he inhabits two worlds that at times have come into conflict during his campaign for the White House.
As a candidate, Mr. Romney uses China as a punching bag. He accuses Beijing of unfairly subsidizing Chinese exports, artificially holding down the value of its currency to keep exports cheap, stealing American technology and hacking into corporate and government computers.
''How is it China's been so successful in taking away our jobs?'' he asked recently. ''Well, let me tell you how: by cheating.''
But his private equity dealings, both while he headed Bain and since, complicate that message.
Mr. Romney's campaign insists he has no control over his investments since they are held in a blind trust. That said, a confidential prospectus for one of the Bain funds, obtained by The New York Times, promotes China as a good investment for some of the same reasons that Mr. Romney has said concern him: ''Strong fundamentals'' like manufacturing wages 85 percent lower than what Americans earn, vast foreign exchange reserves and the likelihood that China will surpass the United States as the world's largest economy.
''Accordingly, Bain Capital expects to see an increasing array of high-growth companies available for investment,'' the prospectus says, noting the relative dearth of private equity in China.
Among the companies in which the Bain funds have invested is a global auto parts maker that is in the process of closing a factory in Illinois and moving most of the equipment and jobs to Jiangsu Province, where the Chinese government has built it a new plant; a Chinese electronics retailer accused by Microsoft of selling computers with pirated software; and a Hong Kong-based Chinese appliance maker that was sued for copying another company's design for a deep-fat fryer.
Asked if Mr. Romney sees any conflict between his Bain investments in China and his policy positions, the campaign said: ''Only the president has the power to level the playing field with China. No private citizen can do that alone.''
The campaign said Mr. Romney put his fortune, estimated at $250 million, in a ''blind trust'' when he became Massachusetts governor in 2003. ''The trustee of the blind trust has said publicly that he will endeavor to make the investments in the blind trust conform to Governor Romney's positions, and whenever it comes to his attention that there is something inconsistent, he ends the investment,'' the statement said.
Should Mr. Romney become president, however, the structure of the trust would most likely not meet the federal requirements for independent management. It is managed by a Boston-based law firm, Ropes & Gray, that has a long history of doing legal work for both Mr. Romney and Bain Capital, including representing some of the same Bain funds in which it invested Mr. Romney's money.
Mr. Romney's trustee, R. Bradford Malt, who is chairman of Ropes & Gray, declined to comment.
Bain Capital declined to comment on specific investments, but said in a statement that its Chinese holdings ''are consistent with the widely accepted principle that the private sector has a critical role to play in the continuing interdependence of the world's economies.''
For many sophisticated and wealthy investors, as well as for ordinary workers invested in pension funds, China is a part of any diversified investment strategy. President Obama, a former Illinois state senator, has as much as $100,000 in a state retirement plan that contains shares of Sensata Technologies, the same auto parts company controlled by Bain that is closing its Illinois factory.
Last year, Mr. Romney's trust sold its stake in an array of foreign holdings, including two Chinese state-owned companies: an oil company and a bank that have done business in Iran. But Mr. Romney continues to have money in Bain funds with sizable holdings in China.
He has as much as $250,000 in the Bain Capital Asia Fund and as much as $1 million each in Bain Capital Funds IX and X, all Cayman Islands entities used by Bain to make sizable investments in China, according to the 2012 candidate financial disclosures and confidential Bain prospectuses obtained by The Times through a public records request.
Among those funds' holdings is $234 million that Bain invested in 2009 in Gome Electrical Appliances, a major Chinese retailer that was accused by Microsoft this year of selling computers with pirated software. In 2007, Bain's Asia fund also invested $39 million in Feixiang Group, a Chinese producer and exporter of chemicals that is a designated ''state high-tech enterprise,'' making it eligible for tax breaks and other government incentives. Ropes & Gray represented Bain in the partial sale of Feixiang three years later for a 53 percent return on the fund's investment.
The Asia fund withdrew from another deal in 2008 that could have proved politically embarrassing to Mr. Romney. After the Bush administration objected, Bain dropped plans to team up with a Chinese technology giant, Huawei, to buy 3Com, a network equipment maker that supplies software and equipment to the Pentagon and other federal agencies.
The administration said intelligence reports indicated that Huawei, which was founded by a former People's Liberation Army officer, posed ''national security problems,'' according to a lawsuit stemming from the deal's collapse. A House Intelligence Committee report released Monday said Huawei continued to have troubling connections to the Chinese government, something the company denies.
Bain's interest in China dates to when Mr. Romney ran the firm. During a panel discussion at the Federal Reserve Bank in Boston in February 1998, he told of touring an appliance factory in China where 5,000 employees ''were working, working, working, as hard as they could, at rates of roughly 50 cents an hour.''
Not long afterward, a Bain affiliate, Brookside Capital Partners, acquired about 6 percent of Global-Tech Appliances, whose factory in many ways matched Mr. Romney's description. The next year, Brookside and another Bain-related entity increased their stake to 9 percent, before selling their shares in 2000.
Just before Bain bought shares, a French firm accused Global-Tech of stealing its deep-fat fryer design. In a decision affirmed by the Supreme Court in 2011, the company was found to have willfully violated the French firm's United States patent, selling the knockoffs even after it was sued.
Mr. Romney also has millions invested in a series of Bain funds that have a controlling stake in Sensata Technologies, a manufacturer of sensors and controls for vehicles, aircraft and electric motors that employs 4,000 workers in China. Since Bain took over the operation in 2006, its investment has quadrupled in value. Bain continues to own $2.6 billion worth of Sensata's shares.
Two years ago, Sensata bought an operation that made automobile sensors in Freeport, Ill. At the first meeting with the plant's 170 workers, Sensata managers announced that by the end of 2012 all the equipment and jobs would be relocated, mostly to Jiangsu Province. Workers have staged demonstrations, pleading for Mr. Romney to intervene on their behalf.
Chinese engineers, flown to Freeport for training on the equipment, described their salaries as a pittance compared with Freeport wages. Tom Gaulrapp, who has operated machines at the factory for 33 years, said he fears he will go bankrupt after he loses his job on Nov. 5.
''This goes to show the unbelievable hypocrisy of this man,'' he said of Mr. Romney. ''He talks about how we need to get tough on China and stop China from taking our jobs, and then he is making money off shipping our jobs there.''
It is often difficult to determine precisely how much Mr. Romney benefits from specific investments by Bain funds, since his money goes into a pool used to buy stakes in companies. In the case of Sensata, however, it is clearer because he reported a charitable donation of $405,000 in Sensata stock that he received as ''partnership distributions'' in 2010 and 2011, according to his tax returns.
Jiangsu Province, where the Freeport jobs are moving, is one of China's designated ''export bases'' for auto parts. Asimco, the other auto parts manufacturer in Bain's portfolio, also has factories in Jiangsu Province and three other regions designated as export bases.
The Chinese government incentives offered to companies in those ''bases'' set off a complaint from the United States to the World Trade Organization last month. The United States asserted that in 2011, China spent $1 billion on grants, tax preferences, lowered interest rates and other subsidies to increase exports of auto parts in violation of fair trade rules.
Mr. Romney has been critical of these types of Chinese incentives to bolster exports.
The state-controlled Chinese Academy of Sciences has provided free research and development to Asimco, which exports at least 15 percent of its products, primarily to the United States. The authorities also gave the company land to build the factory that replaced the plants in Grand Haven, Mich.
Asimco's China operations became a point of contention in bankruptcy proceedings that accompanied the closing of the Michigan plants. The bankruptcy trustee said that internal Asimco e-mails showed the company had transferred money to China to qualify for a Chinese tax rebate available only to manufacturers of exported products.
Jack Perkowski, the former longtime chairman of Asimco who now advises Western companies seeking to enter the Chinese market, said Asimco never benefited from export-related subsidies because most of its customers are in China. ''I honestly can't think of anything we could have gotten that was tied to the fact we were exporting,'' he said.
But the company is striving for more overseas buyers. Last year Zhang Dejiang, the Chinese vice prime minister in charge of transportation, visited an Asimco assembly line and offered encouragement to workers. According to a statement on the company's Web site, Mr. Zhang was particularly impressed that ''the company's products can rival their Western counterparts.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Freeport, Ill., workers have protested plans by Sensata Technologies to relocate 170 jobs to China. Bain Capital has a controlling stake in Sensata, which makes sensors and controls for vehicles and motors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BORRIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Asimco, an auto parts maker that has plants in Beijing, above, and elsewhere in China, bought two Michigan factories with 500 workers but shut them down in 2007. It is now owned by Bain Capital. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN GUARIGLIA)
 A Zhengzhou outlet of Gome Electrical Appliances, a major Chinese retailer that Microsoft has accused of selling computers with pirated software. Bain invested $234 million in Gome in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FREDERIC J. BROWN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (88%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (86%); ELECTRONICS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); PLANT CLOSINGS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (69%); SOFTWARE PIRACY (69%); COMPUTER CRIME (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (68%); RETAILERS (60%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (60%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (50%)

COMPANY: ASIMCO TECHNOLOGIES LTD (92%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); EAST CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); JIANGSU, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



392 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Politics; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: Less Zeal for Obama In a Vital Group of Voters

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY; Shayla Harris contributed reporting from Asheville, N.C.

 BODY:
RALEIGH, N.C. -- Dexter Hady, a black landscaper here, is exactly the kind of Obama supporter who could have slipped through the cracks this year. He recently moved and, not being as excited about the coming election as he was about the 2008 campaign, neglected to update his voter registration.
By chance, a volunteer for the Obama campaign stopped Mr. Hady outside of the Wake County Courthouse here recently and asked him if he was prepared to vote. Mr. Hady said no, and went on to explain: ''I can say I was definitely more excited to vote for Obama last time. I guess part of it is that history has already been made.''
For the Obama campaign, it is almost impossible to overstate the importance of winning over people like Mr. Hady again in North Carolina, which has the largest percentage of black voters of any of the swing states -- especially after President Obama's performance in the first debate, which was widely seen as lackluster. In 2008, a strong black turnout that voted almost exclusively for Mr. Obama was credited with helping to win North Carolina for the Democrats for the first time in decades, contributing to his ultimate victory.
For that to happen again, Mr. Obama would need a near repeat of black voter behavior in Raleigh and across the state. But times have changed. Enthusiasm is down, unemployment is up. And some socially conservative black ministers in North Carolina, where voters passed a referendum against gay marriages and civil unions in May, remain troubled that Mr. Obama endorsed same-sex marriage this year.
''When I voted for Obama in the previous election, I did think he was closer to my values,'' said the Rev. John H. Grant, 58, a black Baptist pastor in Asheville, N.C. ''I'm pretty much undecided right now.''
In 2008, Mr. Obama received 95 percent of the black vote nationally, and in North Carolina, virtually every black woman who voted did so for Mr. Obama, along with 87 percent of black men, according to exit polls.
In recent national polls, Mr. Obama overwhelmingly leads Mitt Romney, the Republican challenger, among blacks. A New York Times/CBS News Poll conducted last month showed that 94 percent of likely black voters supported Mr. Obama, compared with 6 percent who said they would vote for Mr. Romney. And the intensity of support for Mr. Obama was high, with nearly nine out of 10 black voters saying they ''strongly favored'' him. But it remains unclear what effect recent local developments will have on black turnout here in North Carolina, where a small drop-off in the support of a core constituency could have an outsize impact.
Some black voters say they are conflicted this year.
Dawrence Hutley operates a popular lunch cart on a main thoroughfare here that is midway between the Obama campaign's state headquarters, on one side of downtown, and its home base for volunteers, on the other.
But even though he works in the cross hairs of the Democratic effort to win this crucial swing state, Mr. Hutley, a black independent voter, is undecided between Mr. Obama, for whom he voted in 2008, and Mr. Romney.
''I like what Romney says about taxes, being a small-business owner, but I'm also middle class, so I hear what Barack Obama is saying,'' Mr. Hutley, 30, said. ''I want to wait until the last minute, to see what they pull out at the end.''
But other black voters -- even the unenthusiastic -- say there is no choice for them but Mr. Obama.
''Even if I'm not really excited, I think it's important to vote for Obama at the end of the day because of that other guy,'' Mr. Hady said of Mr. Romney. ''I listen to him, so I know how out of touch he is.''
When Mr. Hady was approached outside the courthouse by an Obama campaign volunteer, he was encouraged to update his voter registration.
By the end of the conversation, Mr. Hady had committed to early voting and said he would also be happy to ''spread the word'' to family and friends -- a perfect outcome for the campaign, which has invested much time and effort in on-the-ground operations.
In fact, the volunteer office in Raleigh from the 2008 election never closed. The ground game today represents four years of accumulated data and organizing experience.
''When you look at a state that is as close as this was, you can't take any group for granted,'' said Cameron French, press secretary for the Obama campaign in North Carolina. ''We are making a concentrated effort to turn out 100 percent of the base.''
In 2008, Mr. Obama carried North Carolina by about 14,000 votes. The state's overall importance this year was underscored by the decision of the Democratic Party to hold its nominating convention last month in Charlotte, where thousands of volunteers converged with a primary goal of registering voters. According to the campaign, workers have already collected more voter registration forms in North Carolina this year than in 2008.
Blacks make up about 22 percent of the voting population in North Carolina, and they are being heavily targeted in two places: where they go to church and where they get their hair done.
The new ''Barber and Beauty Program'' enlists specific salon owners and barbers to become what the campaign calls ''opinion leaders'' to push recruitment efforts and voter registration. Participating salons carry campaign literature, registration forms and drop boxes.
Another initiative, ''Congregation Captains'' is not new, but has expanded from the last election. In the program, volunteers from black religious groups are tapped to take a role in keeping their fellow members engaged. According to campaign literature, the captains serve as ''local validators'' of the president's accomplishments.
''That 22 percent is going to get hit several different ways through our campaign,'' Mr. French said, speaking of the black voting population.
North Carolina is not the only swing state where the black vote could be crucial. In Virginia, for instance, blacks make up 20 percent of the population, and in Florida, it is 17 percent.
For its part, the Romney campaign has not conceded that the black vote will go to Mr. Obama in North Carolina. The campaign started a state Black Leadership Council in February to serve as its ''sounding and advisory board'' on issues of importance to minority voters, said Tara Wall, senior communications coalition adviser for the campaign.
On the campaign Web site, a post devoted to black outreach makes Mr. Romney's case: ''President Obama simply did not get the job done -- and he has particularly underserved the black community, which is suffering the most in this upside down economy.''
Some black voters interviewed for this article said they agreed that the president has not given enough attention to issues that are important to black communities, the most pressing being anti-poverty measures. But many said they also remain suspicious of Mr. Romney's record on civil rights and diversity. As governor of Massachusetts, for instance, he eliminated the Office of Affirmative Action. Mr. Romney's Mormon faith is also an issue. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints barred blacks from the priesthood until 1978.
Mr. Hutley, the undecided voter who runs food carts in Raleigh, might be leaning toward Mr. Obama. ''I think, maybe, he just didn't get a chance to do everything he wanted to do.''
And as the election nears, some black pastors who initially rejected the idea of voting for Mr. Obama again have changed their minds. The Rev. Evelyn Paulette Toliver, the minister of a black Pentecostal church in Raleigh, is one of them.
''I'd love it if, as a Christian, Mr. Obama would do everything we want him to,'' she said. ''But I've realized, thinking about it deeply, that he's not just the president of Christians. He's got to be the president of everybody.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Obama campaign enlists businesses like Nicholson's Barber and Style Shop in Raleigh, N.C., to help push voter registration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN W. ADKISSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Black Voter Turnout Was Crucial for Obama in North Carolina: Turnout in black precincts pushed Democrats over the top in North Carolina in 2008, reversing much of recent history.
CHARTS: Vote margin for president in North Carolina
The Shift to Obama: Change in margin of victory from 2004 to 2008, by precinct (Sources: Harvard Election Data Archive
 Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); REFERENDUMS (72%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (69%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (64%); MARRIAGE (64%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (90%); ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



393 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Schumer Shakes Up Deficit Talks With Call to Raise Taxes on the Rich

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the Senate's third-ranking Democrat, threw cold water on Tuesday on one emerging approach for striking a bipartisan deficit-reduction deal -- an overhaul of the tax code that lowers top income tax rates but raises more revenue. Mr. Schumer's position complicates efforts to seal a deal before January, when the ''fiscal cliff'' of tax increases and automatic spending cuts goes into effect.
In a speech to the National Press Club, Mr. Schumer branded the idea of a tax code overhaul that could simultaneously lower the top rates, bring in more revenue and protect middle-class taxpayers from increases as ''little more than happy talk.''
Instead, he said that the top two income tax rates should be frozen around 36 percent and 39.6 percent, which are levels from the Clinton era, and that any additional revenue generated by closing loopholes and curtailing or eliminating tax deductions and credits should be devoted to deficit reduction.
''It is an alluring prospect to cut taxes on the wealthiest people and somehow still reduce the deficit, but you can't have your cake and eat it too,'' said Mr. Schumer, a member of the tax-writing Finance Committee. ''The reality is, any path forward on tax reform that promised to cut rates will end up either failing to reduce the deficit or failing to protect the middle class from a net tax increase.''
Republicans reacted harshly to Mr. Schumer's position, which they said could ensure that the nation careers off the fiscal cliff in January, when all of the Bush-era tax cuts expire and $1 trillion in automatic across-the-board cuts to military and domestic programs over the next 10 years begin to go into force.
''A tax reform framework that lowers rates and closes loopholes has support from both parties, including the Obama administration, and it offers the best hope for bipartisan efforts to create robust economic growth and reduce our deficit,'' said Kevin Smith, a spokesman for Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio. ''Senator Schumer seems to be off an island with these remarks.''
Senator Lamar Alexander, a Tennessee Republican who is negotiating with Senator Michael Bennet, Democrat of Colorado, on a deficit-reduction framework, said: ''While many of us from both parties are working quietly to try to find common ground for a budget agreement that will get the economy moving, Senator Schumer is on the front pages four weeks before an election offering a proposal to raise taxes. In my view, both his timing and his recommendations are unhelpful and unsound.''
But some Democrats involved in the negotiations say Mr. Schumer's position could prove helpful by demarcating the left's opening position on tax cuts for the rich and by opening a new avenue for negotiation over entitlement programs. Mr. Schumer said Republicans would be drawn to the table by the prospect of making changes to Medicare and other entitlements. While he did not specify what changes he would accept, Republicans in deficit talks have demanded the restructuring of entitlements in exchange for added revenues.
A White House official said Mr. Schumer's remarks underscored President Obama's position that the wealthy and big corporations would have ''to pay their fair share'' in any deficit deal.
''Schumer's speech puts him squarely in the get-a-deal camp, and he willingly put entitlements on the table,'' said Jim Kessler, senior vice president for policy at Third Way, a centrist Democratic group. ''That's a big move.''
The speech also signaled that negotiations previously confined to backbench lawmakers are beginning in earnest. Leaders from both parties are becoming more engaged. Business groups and industry titans have rallied around a ''Fix the Debt'' campaign, which is led by Maya MacGuineas's Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget and is designed to pressure both sides to reach a deal before the first of the year. So far the effort has raised $30 million and hopes to more than triple that.
Republicans, and some senior Democrats, had been gravitating to a deficit-reduction framework that relied heavily on tax changes that lowered rates across the board to bring along both parties.
With enough changes to tax deductions and credits, negotiators argue that they could raise as much as $2 trillion over the next decade. Republicans could claim they prevented an increase in tax rates. Democrats could say they forced Republicans to add additional revenues to spending cuts to get a handle on deficits that again topped $1 trillion for the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30.
That framework was embraced by senators of both parties -- including the second-ranking Democrat, Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois -- when it was proposed by the chairmen of Mr. Obama's deficit-reduction commission, Erskine B. Bowles and Alan K. Simpson. Mr. Boehner has also accepted in theory that revenues from a tax overhaul could be used for deficit reduction, as long as the current tax rates do not rise.
The so-called Gang of Eight -- four Democratic senators and four Republican senators -- have been negotiating a deficit-reduction deal that embraces tax changes that lower rates and increase revenues as a central pillar. The group held a closed-door meeting on Tuesday.
The Republican presidential nominee, Mitt Romney, and his running mate, Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, have also proposed overhauling the tax code to lower rates across the board, but they have said they want to keep overall revenues about where they are now.
With his speech Tuesday, Mr. Schumer is planting a new Democratic flag. Any overhaul of the tax code, he said, should freeze the top two personal income tax rates, hold the middle class harmless and raise rates on capital gains to close the difference between how the tax code treats earned and unearned income.
Mr. Schumer said the reason three years of bipartisan negotiations on the deficit have been fruitless is that they have started from a mathematically impossible position: that all tax rates should come down while revenues go up.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York said top tax rates should return to Clinton-era levels. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (97%); TAX LAW (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX REFORM (89%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PRESS CLUB (57%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MICHAEL BENNET (58%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



394 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Politics; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: Message to Supporters From Obama Campaign: Steady On

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and JEFF ZELENY; Jim Rutenberg reported from New York, and Jeff Zeleny from Columbus, Ohio. Reporting was contributed by Michael Shear from Washington, Nicholas Confessore from New York and Helene Cooper from Columbus.

 BODY:
A day after some national polls showed President Obama's edge over Mitt Romney evaporating, he responded first thing on Tuesday with a new commercial featuring Big Bird of ''Sesame Street'' and Mr. Romney's debate-night vow to cut financing for PBS.
It did not exactly take flight.
The creators of ''Sesame Street'' had asked Mr. Obama to leave Big Bird out of it. And even some Democrats said the ad, suggesting that Mr. Romney would be tougher on ''Sesame Street'' than on Wall Street, was not the salve that nervous party activists and volunteers were looking for.
''The right message is that on Friday, we saw great economic news,'' said Brian Moran, the chairman of the Virginia Democratic Party, referring to new data showing that the national unemployment rate fell to 7.8 percent in September. ''Things are moving in the right direction. That's where the focus should be, and not on the debate.''
Big Bird was part of a broader effort by Mr. Obama and his team to reassure supporters -- many of whom were confident a week ago that the election was all but assured -- that his campaign had not lost its intensity or focus. By later in the day, Mr. Obama was delivering a spirited campaign appearance in Columbus, Ohio, his aides were reaching out to big donors with a calming message that they had always expected a tight finish, and the campaign had released new ads in battleground states on issues like potential cuts to Medicaid.
The Big Bird ad may not have inspired universal confidence among Democrats. But if nothing else, they said, any sense of complacency in their ranks was now gone.
''Certainly, you're not hearing anyone out here saying this is in the bag, and you were beginning to get that sense,'' Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado said in an interview. ''Dire is the wrong word, but I do think it is a wake-up call.''
Speaking at a rally in Columbus late Tuesday, Mr. Obama accused Mr. Romney of showing ''salesmanship'' but ''not leadership,'' telegraphing a new line of attack that Mr. Obama's aides hoped would help to bolster his supporters.
Inside Mr. Obama's Chicago headquarters, senior advisers had already worked to calm younger staff members by counseling them to tune out the natural, if jarring, gyrations of a closely fought presidential race. Supportive Democratic governors were doing the same on Tuesday. ''Did we forget no-drama Obama?'' Gov. Brian Schweitzer of Montana asked in an interview, reprising the go-steady slogan of Mr. Obama's 2008 effort.
After a Pew Research Center poll on Monday that suggested Mr. Romney's debate performance had helped him erase Mr. Obama's lead nationally, a Gallup survey released Tuesday showed a similar result, with the candidates statistically tied.
But polls in battleground states appeared to show the race to be back where it was before Mr. Obama went on a run, and Mr. Romney stumbled, after their party conventions, with Mr. Obama for the most part holding slight but shrinking edges in surveys, within their margins of sampling of error.
A new CNN poll of likely voters in Ohio showed the president to have a four-point advantage. (A Quinnipiac University/New York Times/CBS News poll and a Washington Post poll before the debate had shown a lead for Mr. Obama of 8 to 10 percentage points.)
And a new survey by WMUR and the New Hampshire University Survey Center showed Mr. Obama to have a 6-point lead in the state, down from 15 points a week ago.
Officials at the pro-Obama ''super PAC'' Priorities USA Action, and at unions including the AFL-CIO, said that the electoral battleground, and their plans to tackle it, have not changed.
''You can't deny that he could have done a lot better in the debate and that would have continued the confidence people had in the outcome,'' said Mike Podhorzer, the AFL-CIO's political director. ''But in terms of what we do, which is we only focus on the ground, people are committed and are still committed because the economic issues and choices are so stark.''
Similarly, Gov. Bev Perdue of North Carolina said debate performance aside, ''We've always known that it was going to be a scintilla of a vote that will decide the election here, and we are focusing on our strengths, which is our ground game.''
There was no denying, however, that the momentum was with Mr. Romney, and it was the Obama campaign's turn to face questions about its strategy, approach and candidate performance the way Mr. Romney's campaign did in the weeks before the first debate.
With the online Drudge Report running a headline about a scathing article from Andrew Sullivan, the usually reliable Obama supporter who said the president had thrown ''in the towel,'' agitated donors traded hopes that Mr. Obama would show more fight.
''I wouldn't use the word 'panic,' but there is a sense that everything the campaign told us about the need to continue the fight is absolutely true,'' said Justin Buell, a member of Mr. Obama's national finance council in San Francisco.
He and other Obama finance team members said there was at least a bright spot in that the latest turn in the campaign appeared to be driving a new round of donations.
''After the initial 24 hours where people recognized that it wasn't our best night, people seemed to double down and dig in,'' said Andy Spahn, a Los Angeles public relations executive who helped organize a fund-raiser Mr. Obama held there Sunday. ''People who were watching and feeling him to be comfortable ahead, and not writing those last checks, they have felt the race tighten, and they are coming through.''
Other fund-raisers said the instructions from Chicago were ''Put your heads down'' and ''redouble your efforts.''
Some Democrats questioned just how much Mr. Obama would gain from his Big Bird commercial. ''I don't think anyone would argue this ad will make any sort of contribution to the decision in this race,'' said David Doak, a longtime Democratic advertising strategist, who added that it could be more effective in getting free attention from the news media, which it did.
Aides said the spot was to run only on cable, including comedy programs, and was meant to direct the focus to the budget priories of Mr. Romney, who criticized Mr. Obama for talking about ''saving Big Bird'' instead of ''saving good jobs.''
''The idea was to provoke a discussion and create a little viral activity, and we've done that,'' said David Axelrod, the president's chief strategist.
By midday, the campaign had released a new ad about Mr. Romney's proposed Medicaid cuts and their potential effect on middle-class families with older relatives in nursing homes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama during a campaign rally at Ohio State University in Columbus, where he accused Mitt Romney of showing ''salesmanship'' but ''not leadership.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 'BIG, YELLOW, A MENACE TO OUR ECONOMY': Images from the Obama campaign's new commercial, which was made after Mr. Romney criticized Mr. Obama for talking about ''saving Big Bird'' instead of ''saving good jobs.'' The ad puts Big Bird in a league with the likes of L. Dennis Kozlowski, left, and Ken Lay, right. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OBAMA FOR AMERICA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); GOVERNORS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MEDICAID (64%)

ORGANIZATION: OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (92%); BRIAN SCHWEITZER (55%); JOHN HICKENLOOPER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



395 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Barry Trails Off . . .

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
President Obama likes to be alone.
When he speaks at rallies, he doesn't want the stage cluttered with other officeholders. When he rides in his limo, he isn't prone to give local pols a lift. He wants to feel that he doesn't owe his ascension to anyone else -- not a rich daddy, not a spouse or father who was president, not even those who helped at pivotal moments. He believes he could do any job in his White House or campaign, from speechwriter to policy director, better than those holding the jobs.
So Obama knows that he alone is responsible for his unfathomable retreat into his own head while 70 million people watched. He hadn't been nailing it in debate prep either, taking a break to visit the Hoover Dam, and worried aides knew his head wasn't in it. When the president realized what a dud he was, he apologized to flummoxed and irritated advisers.
Once during the 2008 campaign, reading about all the cataclysms jolting the economy and the world, Obama joked to an adviser: ''Maybe I should throw the game.'' This time, he actually threw the game. And shaved points right off his poll ratings. The president is good at analyzing the psychology of other world leaders, and he wrote an acclaimed memoir about his long, lonely odyssey of self-discovery. But he doesn't always do a good job at analyzing his own psychology to avoid self-destructive patterns.
David Maraniss, who wrote biographies of Bill Clinton and Obama, said that both men had recurring themes. Clinton would plant ''the seeds of his own undoing'' and then ''find a way to recover.'' Obama's personality, Maraniss said, was shaped by his desire to avoid traps created by his unusual family and geographical backgrounds, and the trap of race in America.
''It helped explain his caution, his tendency to hold back and survey life like a chessboard, looking for where he might get checkmated,'' Maraniss wrote in ''Barack Obama: The Story,'' adding that it also made Obama seek to transcend confrontation.
While Mitt Romney did a great job of conjuring a less off-putting and hard-right Romney, Obama walked into a trap of his own devising.
It was a perfect psychological storm for the president. He performs better when his back is against the wall; he has some subconscious need to put himself in challenging positions. That makes it hard for him to surf success and intensity; he just suddenly runs out of gas and stops fighting, leaving revved up supporters confused and deflated. ''That's just his rhythm,'' said one adviser.
Because Obama doesn't relish confrontation, he often fails to pin his opponents on the mat the first time he gets the chance; instead, perversely, he pulls back and allows foes to gain oxygen. It happened with Hillary in New Hampshire and Texas and with Republicans in the health care and debt-ceiling debates. Just as Obama let the Tea Party inflate in the summer of 2009, spreading a phony narrative about ''death panels,'' now he has let Romney inflate and spread a phony narrative about moderation and tax math.
Even though Obama was urged not to show his pompous side, he arrived at the podium cloaked in layers of disdain; a disdain for debates, which he regards as shams, a venue, as the Carter White House adviser Gerry Rafshoon puts it, where ''people prefer a good liar to a bad performer.''
Obama feels: Seriously? After all he did mopping up Republican chaos, does he really have to spend weeks practicing a canned zinger? Should the man who killed Osama bin Laden and personally reviews drone strikes have to put on a show of macho swagger?
Plus, he's filled with disdain for Romney, seeing him as the ultimate slick boardroom guy born on third base trying to peddle money-making deals. Surely everyone sees through this con man?
Just as Poppy Bush didn't try as hard as he should have because he assumed voters would reject Slick Willie, Obama lapsed into not trying because he assumed voters would reject Cayman Mitt.
The president averted his eyes as glittering opportunities passed, even when Romney sent a lob his way with a reference to his accountant.
Obama has been coddled by Valerie Jarrett, the adviser who sat next to Michelle at the debate, instead of the more politically strategic choice of local pols and their spouses. Jarrett believes that everyone must woo the prodigy who deigns to guide us, not the other way around.
At a fund-raising concert in San Francisco Monday night, the president mocked Romney's star turn, saying ''what was being presented wasn't leadership; that's salesmanship.''
It is that distaste for salesmanship that caused Obama not to sell or even explain health care and economic policies; and it is that distaste that caused him not to sell himself and his policies at the debate. His latest fund-raising plea is marked ''URGENT.'' But in refusing to muster his will and energy, and urgently sell his vision, he underscores his own lapses in leadership and undermines arguments for four more years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); SPORTS TAMPERING (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BILL CLINTON (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



396 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Why Chávez Was Re-elected

BYLINE: By MARK WEISBROT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- For most people who have heard or read about Hugo Chávez in the international media, his reelection on Sunday as president of Venezuela by a convincing margin might be puzzling.
Almost all of the news we hear about him is bad: He picks fights with the United States and sides with ''enemies'' such as Iran; he is a ''dictator'' or ''strongman'' who has squandered the nation's oil wealth; the Venezuelan economy is plagued by shortages and is usually on the brink of collapse.
Then there is the other side of the story: Since the Chávez government got control over the national oil industry, poverty has been cut by half, and extreme poverty by 70 percent. College enrollment has more than doubled, millions of people have access to health care for the first time and the number of people eligible for public pensions has quadrupled.
So it should not be surprising that most Venezuelans would reelect a president who has improved their living standards. That's what has happened with all of the leftist governments that now govern most of South America. This is despite the fact that they, like Chávez, have most of their countries' media against them, and their opposition has most of the wealth and income of their respective countries.
The list includes Rafael Correa, who was reelected president of Ecuador by a wide margin in 2009; the enormously popular Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva of Brazil, who was reelected in 2006 and then successfully campaigned for his former chief of staff, now President Dilma Rousseff, in 2010; Evo Morales, Bolvia's first indigenous president, who was reelected in 2009; José Mujica, who succeeded his predecessor from the same political alliance in Uruguay -- the Frente Amplio -- in 2009; Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, who succeeded her husband, the late Néstor Kirchner, winning the 2011 Argentine presidential election by a solid margin.
These leftist presidents and their political parties won reelection because, like Chávez, they brought significant -- and in some cases huge -- improvements in living standards. They all originally campaigned against ''neoliberalism,'' a word used to describe the policies of the prior 20 years, when Latin America experienced its worst economic growth in more than a century.
Not surprisingly, the leftist leaders have seen Venezuela as part of a team that has brought more democracy, national sovereignty and economic and social progress to the region. Yes, democracy: even the much-maligned Venezuela is recognized by many scholars to be more democratic than it was in the pre-Chávez era.
Democracy was at issue when South America stood together against Washington on such issues as the 2009 military coup in Honduras. The differences were so pronounced that they led to the formation of a new hemisphere-wide organization -- the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, which excluded the United States and Canada -- as an alternative to the U.S.-dominated Organization of American States.
Here is what Lula said last month about the Venezuelan election: ''A victory for Chávez is not just a victory for the people of Venezuela but also a victory for all the people of Latin America ... this victory will strike another blow against imperialism.''
The administration of George W. Bush pursued a strategy of trying to isolate Venezuela from its neighbors, and ended up isolating itself. President Obama has continued this policy, and at the 2012 Summit of the Americas in Colombia he was as isolated as his predecessor.
Although some media have talked of Venezuela's impending economic collapse for more than a decade, it hasn't happened and is not likely to happen.
After recovering from a recession that began in 2009, the Venezuelan economy has been growing for two-and-a-half years now and inflation has fallen sharply while growth has accelerated. The country has a sizeable trade surplus. Its public debt is relatively low, and so is its debt-service burden. It has plenty of room to borrow foreign currency (it has borrowed $36 billion from China [pdf], mostly at very low interest rates), and can borrow domestically as well at low or negative real interest rates.
So even if oil prices were to crash temporarily (as they did in 2008-2009), there would be no need for austerity or recession. And hardly anyone is predicting a long-term collapse of oil prices.
Venezuela's economy does have long-term problems, such as relatively high inflation and inadequate infrastructure. But the substantial improvement in people's income (the average income has risen much faster than inflation under Chávez), plus gains in health care and education, seems to have outweighed the government's failings in other areas, including law enforcement, in the minds of most voters.
The U.S. economic embargo against Cuba has persisted for more than half a century, despite its obvious stupidity and failure. American hostility toward Venezuela is only about 12 years old, but shows no sign of being reconsidered, despite the evidence that it is also alienating the rest of the hemisphere.
Venezuela has about 500 billion barrels of oil and is burning them currently at a rate of one billion barrels a year. Chávez or a successor from his party will likely be governing the country for many years to come. The only question is when -- if ever -- Washington will accept the results of democratic change in the region.
Mark Weisbrot is codirector of the Center for Economic and Policy Research in Washington and president of Just Foreign Policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); COUPS (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (59%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (54%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (91%); DILMA ROUSSEFF (79%); CRISTINA FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (58%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (58%); NESTOR KIRCHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); URUGUAY (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ECUADOR (79%); HONDURAS (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



397 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Near Washington, Casino Plan Awaits the Voters

BYLINE: By EUGENE L. MEYER

 BODY:
OXON HILL, Md. -- When National Harbor, a 300-acre, $2 billion minicity on the Potomac just south of Washington, opened for business in 2008 at the start of the recession, the entire venture was regarded as something of a gamble.
Now the project's developer, Peterson Companies, is betting even more on the project, which is anchored by the 450,000-square-foot Gaylord National Hotel and Convention Center, the largest property of its type on the East Coast. Peterson is betting that casino gambling will add even more luster, and it has signed an agreement with MGM Resorts International, a major casino player, to make it happen.
But there's a catch. Maryland voters must first approve an initiative in next month's election to allow table games here in Prince George's County and at five other locations in the state that already have slot machine parlors. The majority of voters in Prince George's County must also approve it.
The contest has generated multimillion-dollar campaigns and pits not only local proponents and opponents of gambling but also gambling behemoths against one another. Further, it has become a battle among states: Maryland, which seeks to gain the revenue that flows from taxes on the casinos, versus others, notably Pennsylvania and Delaware, which added table games in 2010 and 2011, and seek to protect the revenue they now receive.
It's a high-stakes battle, with the competing casino interests having spent more than $36 million for television spots, direct mail, robo-calls and telemarketing calls, Web sites and other promotional efforts -- more than twice the total of $17 million that was spent by the two main candidates in the 2010 governor's race.
''We're in the midst of a full-blown modern campaign and everything that goes with it,'' said an MGM spokesman, Gordon Absher. The amount MGM is investing in the campaign is constantly changing, he said, because ''the other side is fighting desperately to protect its revenues.''
The proposal is backed by Rushern L. Baker III, the Prince George's county executive, who voted against slot machine gambling as a state legislator in 2007. But he now believes a high-end casino with name entertainers and other Las Vegas-style features would help economic development and replenish depleted county coffers in a struggling economy.
For the opposition, Penn National Gaming, which owns betting parlors that would be most affected, has contributed $21.6 million to a committee calling itself ''Get the Facts -- Vote No on 7.'' Meanwhile, the pro-casino committee, ''For Maryland Jobs and Schools,'' has received $14.4 million from MGM, $3.4 million from a Baltimore group, and about $1.2 million from Peterson Companies.
Publicly traded Penn National Gaming, based in Wyomissing, Pa., owns 20 casinos with 31,749 slots and 725 tables. Its holdings include casinos in Delaware, Pennsylvania and West Virginia, all close to the Maryland border.
Its television spots contend that promises of money for education from casino taxes and 4,000 new jobs are untrue or misleading. ''This whole thing is a lot of hot air,'' according to the script of a recent telemarketing call, read by a person who would not say where he was calling from.
The Penn National casino with perhaps the most to lose is at the Charles Town, W.Va., racetrack, an hour's drive from Washington and Baltimore. National Harbor supporters say that 34 percent of the Charles Town customers come from Maryland, and 41 percent from Virginia, to bet at the casino's 3,500 slot machines, 100 table games and 50 poker tables, according to their own surveys.
Kevin McLaughlin, a communications consultant hired by the opponents, would not discuss strategy or a new casino's impact on the West Virginia operation. ''The question is whether Question 7 is good or bad for Maryland residents. The answer is it's bad. Anything else is not pertinent.''
However, Mr. Baker, the Prince George's county executive, said, ''Make no mistake: it's Maryland versus West Virginia. It's about economic development. This is critical in this time, when we're looking for every dollar we can get.''
Stephen S. Fuller, director of the Center for Regional Analysis at George Mason University in Arlington, Va., says casinos present ''a mixed picture'' in terms of economic benefits. In Atlantic City, for example, he said, casinos have created jobs and revenue for the state but failed to lift the city itself.
A casino at National Harbor ''will generate some jobs, some tourism, some spending,'' Mr. Fuller added, but it could be ''a distraction'' for a county that might not ''strive to build on its natural assets'' to develop a more diversified economy.
Nonetheless, he said, National Harbor is ''certainly a logical location for a casino.''
The huge Potomac River development where Maryland's sixth casino would probably be located had failed to materialize under a succession of developers over 30 years. Then, Peterson Companies stepped in.
Peterson's alliance with the Gaylord convention center, which had indirect personnel ties to casinos elsewhere, led to speculation that gambling was on the table. But as construction got under way in 2004, Milton V. Peterson, the company's patriarch and chairman, disavowed any such intention, yielding both to local opposition on moral grounds and to what he said were his own personal feelings about gambling. But those feelings have changed.
''The whole perception of gaming in this country has changed,'' said Mr. Peterson, a lanky, 76-year-old New Englander. When he first rejected the idea, he said, fewer than a dozen states had legalized gambling; now more than half do. ''Then, gaming was an anomaly, strange, not normal.''
Initially, National Harbor seemed to thrive despite the sagging economy, as organizations and trade groups booked conventions at the Gaylord. Thirty restaurants and six hotels opened, and a marina was built. But the economy took its toll. Condo sales stalled. Then Disney canceled plans to build a 500-room resort hotel. Over all, Mr. Peterson said, his company has lost $11 million on National Harbor.
The proposed casino would rise on a site where a previous developer had proposed a 60-story office tower designed by the architect Philip Johnson. The site adjoins the Capital Beltway, providing Interstate highway access. Peterson had also planned to use the site for offices.
Under a previous developer in the 1980s, the tract would have been called Port America, with the office tower in a campuslike setting and with low-rise condos, restaurants and a waterfront promenade below.
James J. Murren, the MGM Resorts chief, said plans are well under way to spend $800 million to develop the tract. ''We don't want to be presumptuous,'' he said. ''It all could be for naught come November. But we're hopeful and confident we can prevail.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A tent for Cirque du Soleil has been erected on the proposed site for a new casino at National Harbor, in Oxon Hill, Md. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (93%); GAMING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TELEMARKETING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); COUNTIES (74%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); RESORTS (72%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (72%); GOVERNORS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (67%)

COMPANY: PETERSON COS LC (73%); MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (71%); PENN NATIONAL GAMING INC (58%)

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (71%); PENN (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (73%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (73%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (71%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (58%); NAICS711212 RACETRACKS (58%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



398 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Cutbacks And the Fate Of the Young

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER. 
E-mail: eporter@nytimes.com; Twitter: @portereduardo

 BODY:
During the presidential debate last week, Mitt Romney reminded us that it is our children, and grandchildren, who will end up paying for our budget deficits. His comment about the immorality of passing on such a large bill is a welcome reminder that our generation bears responsibility for the well-being of the next.
But the nation's growing debt is not the only threat to our children's future. We need a broader debate about how to ensure that the next generation -- the children of today and the taxpaying adults of tomorrow -- have a fair shot at prosperity.
Right now, the next generation is getting shortchanged all around, with children too often treated as an afterthought in policies meant to appeal to their elders. The United States tolerates the highest rate of child poverty in the developed world. Yet federal expenditures on children -- including everything from their share of Medicaid and the earned-income tax credit to targeted efforts like child nutrition and education programs -- fell 1 percent last year and will fall an additional 4 percent this year, to $428 billion, according to estimates by the Urban Institute based on the Congressional Budget Office's projections.
The federal government spent $8 billion less on child health last year than it did the previous year, as fiscal stimulus programs to combat the Great Recession were phased out. It cut aid to states to pay for primary education by about the same amount.
The states, which provide more than 60 percent of the total government dollars spent on children, aren't in great shape either. According to the Urban Institute's estimates, state and municipal spending on children fell in each of the last three years.
And the outlook is not much better for the coming decade. Despite health care reform, which will lead to coverage for millions of uninsured children, the Urban Institute forecasts that federal expenditures on children -- including direct spending and tax breaks -- will shrink to about 2.3 percent of the nation's economic output by 2022, from 3 percent last year.
Children have needs besides sound fiscal accounts. Deprived childhoods lay the groundwork for future social ills. We have the third-worst rate of infant mortality among 30 industrialized countries and the second-highest teenage pregnancy rate, after Mexico. We're in the bottom quarter of countries in terms of literacy. Unsurprisingly, perhaps, half of American children born to low-income parents grow up to be low-income adults.
Investing in children is not just a matter of fairness but of economic vitality. Early interventions to help disadvantaged children can have an enormous return. They improve children's cognitive and social abilities. They promote healthy behavior. They increase productivity and reduce crime. Investing in education is about as good an investment as a society can make.
With all the concern about the next generation's fiscal future, these investments are falling by the wayside. If Mr. Romney becomes the next president and delivers on his promise to cap federal spending at 20 percent of the nation's economic product while increasing the defense budget, programs for youth are bound to shrink even below the Urban Institute's estimates.
According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, if Mr. Romney spared those 55 and over from any changes to Medicare or Social Security, as his campaign has promised, spending on everything else would have to be cut by more than $6 trillion from 2014 to 2022. The center did not specify how this would affect the young. But a repeal of health care reform would drastically reduce health benefits. The budget for Medicaid, which is the biggest federal program serving children, would be cut by almost $2 trillion over 10 years.
There is good reason to be worried about our long-term budget deficits. They are indeed projected to be huge -- driven mostly by the growing health care spending of an aging population. Medicare will absorb about 6.7 percent of the nation's economic output by 2037, up from 3.7 percent today, under the most likely situation laid out by the Congressional Budget Office.
Though President Obama and Mr. Romney acknowledge the American economy can't afford that, they have each devoted a big chunk of their campaigns to convincing seniors that their benefits will not be compromised. Social Security and Medicare ''are bedrock commitments that America makes to its seniors,'' President Obama said in a speech to the AARP last month. The Republican vice-presidential candidate, Paul Ryan, told the same gathering, ''Medicare is a promise, and we will keep it.'' The generation whose taxes will be footing the bill in 2037 doesn't get the same type of commitment.
Isabel Sawhill, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a co-director of its Center on Children and Families, argues it is time to reconsider the intergenerational deal that has held since Social Security's inception in the 1930s. The assumption behind it was that working-age Americans could support their children and every senior would be able to retire at age 65.
Today, this compact is under strain. Health spending has skyrocketed while middle-class wages have failed to keep up with the cost of living. The old are living longer and collecting more benefits than before. Even under new measures of poverty that account for seniors' high medical spending, poverty rates among children have surpassed deprivation among the old. Seniors, Ms. Sawhill suggests, could shoulder more costs so that more of the money from working Americans could be devoted to the young.
There are ways to do this while still protecting the most vulnerable seniors. Social Security benefits could be indexed to slow their growth for high-income seniors. Wealthier retirees might bear a larger share of their medical expenses. The retirement age could be raised.
The challenge isn't going to get any easier as we keep aging and medical costs keep rising faster than economic growth. But so far the presidential candidates have stopped short of any fundamental change to the longstanding generational compact.
Mr. Obama proposes to address the problem by raising taxes on the rich. He hopes the Affordable Care Act can wring a lot of excess from our health care system -- reducing Medicare costs along the way. The plan is likely to come up short, however. The efficiency gains remain hypothetical. And while raising more money from high-income Americans is a first step, most economists believe that to avoid cuts in health benefits the government must raise taxes on the middle class.
Mr. Romney's plan could be more radical: replacing Medicare with vouchers for Americans to buy health insurance and capping the vouchers to control spending directly. But he has already said he would exempt most of the baby boom generation from his reforms. And he has been careful not to disclose any details -- repudiating earlier proposals from his running mate that would have raised how much seniors pay out of pocket, fearful of an intense reaction.
If the next generation is going to be handed the bill for our budget deficits, we might as well make the investments needed to help it bear the burden. So far, we seem on track to bequeath our children a double whammy: a mountain of debt and substantial program cuts that will undermine their ability to shoulder it when their time comes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Children listened to President Obama last month at a campaign rally. Federal expenditures on children will fall 4 percent this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (B8) CHART: Spending Less on Children: Children's share of federal spending has declined over the last five decades, and the Urban Institute projects that it will again in the next decade. (Source: The Urban Institute) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CHILDREN (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (89%); TAX LAW (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (88%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); MEDICAID (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (72%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (72%); RECESSION (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (67%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (57%); NUTRITION (52%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



399 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Same-Day Delivery Test At Wal-Mart

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Wal-Mart Stores kicked Amazon out of its 4,000 stores last month when it discontinued Kindle tablets and e-readers. Now, the retailer is poised to use those stores against its online rival once again -- this time aiming for the heart of Amazon's retail model.
Wal-Mart said Tuesday it had begun testing same-day delivery for online purchases in a handful of cities across the country.
The near-instant delivery is possible because the merchandise is being shipped from Walmart stores.
The first retailer to master same-day delivery on a wide scale could attract customers who have avoided online purchases because they wanted items immediately, and encourage current shoppers to add products that they usually buy from supermarkets or drugstores, including celery and toothpaste.
But some retail analysts are questioning whether the expense and difficulty of same-day delivery would be worth it.
Amazon is the world's largest online retailer, and in an interview last month, Jeff Bezos, its chief executive, said that the company was striving for same-day delivery in metropolitan areas. Its Web site says same-day delivery is available in limited cases. Mr. Bezos said Amazon would soon be able to cut as much as a day off its shipping times, raising the possibility of same-day delivery in cities where it has distribution centers.
If Wal-Mart expanded its same-day shipping across the country, it could essentially transform the more than 4,000 Walmarts, along with Sam's Club and other divisions, into distribution centers. Amazon, by contrast, had fewer than 40 distribution centers in the United States at the end of last year and has plans to add about 20 worldwide this year.
''Everybody in retail is terrified of Amazon, and they're terrified of losing more wallet share to Amazon,'' said Sucharita Mulpuru, an analyst with Forrester Research. The Wal-Mart move is ''to try to get ahead of the curve if Amazon does introduce something like this.''
Wal-Mart and Amazon once operated in separate spheres -- Wal-Mart's offline, Amazon's online. And Amazon's sales, at $48 billion in 2011, are more than a tenth of Wal-Mart's, which were $419 billion in 2011. But increasingly, they are competing for the same customer and the same turf.
For instance, in a move that probably hurt Wal-Mart, Amazon last year offered customers a discount on items they scanned in physical stores, letting it pluck shoppers as they strolled the aisles of stores like Walmart. And its subscription Prime service, offering free two-day delivery on many items, has gotten customers buying staples like toilet paper from it rather than from nearby groceries and Walmarts.
Wal-Mart, meanwhile, has been building up its e-commerce site as it tries to do things that Amazon cannot, such as allowing customers to pay for online purchases with cash. ''Connecting our Web site to our stores gives us a unique advantage, so customers can shop anytime, anywhere,'' said Amy Lester, a Wal-Mart spokeswoman.
Both retailers have the same goal: to be the general store where customers will buy apparel, food, home décor and just about everything else, no matter how they want to order and receive the goods.
Yet same-day delivery may not make financial sense, Ms. Mulpuru said. ''If you don't care about losing a lot of money, sure, you can pull this off,'' she said. ''The question is: Can you pull this off profitably? I'm not convinced.''
She pointed to retailers that already offer same-day delivery in some areas, like Barnes & Noble, and said that the service had not been a game-changer. People who live in dense urban areas and who do not have cars might find same-day delivery useful, but for those in suburban or rural areas a short drive to a Walmart is easier than waiting for a delivery, she said.
Physical retailers have been trying to figure out how to turn their stores into competitive advantages. With staff, inventory and real estate, stores have many costs that online retailers do not have. Wal-Mart and a few others have started using the stores to offer services to online shoppers, including shipping items (but not same-day), free returns, ordering online and picking up in a store and payment centers. However, few offline retailers offer same-day delivery. They rarely have enough locations to make it feasible, and there are logistical hurdles.
The Wal-Mart tests, the first of which started last week in the Washington suburbs, let customers order toys and other popular gifts, and have them delivered to their homes the same day. Ms. Lester, the Wal-Mart spokeswoman, said the company chose which items to include based on what was popular in its order-online, pick-up-in-store service. The same-day service costs $10, with no minimum purchase.
Wal-Mart has been testing same-day grocery delivery for more than two years in San Jose, Calif., and now offers it in San Francisco, too. But this is the first time it is trying to ship general merchandise within a day.
To receive goods on the same day, consumers must place an order before noon, and select a four-hour window when they want the items delivered. United Parcel Service is handling deliveries. The current test includes toys, sports equipment, home décor and electronics -- all popular holiday items.
Amazon has offered limited items, in limited areas, for same-day delivery since 2009, its Web site says. Its Prime service, which costs $79 a year, is popular. ''Prime members buy at a faster rate in all categories,'' Mr. Bezos said this year. ''One of the big advantages of Amazon for consumers is that they can get one box with a lot of things in it from different categories.''
The Wal-Mart program is already running in Northern Virginia and Philadelphia. It was introduced Tuesday in Minneapolis, and the San Jose and San Francisco areas that are already part of the grocery test will join the toys-and-gifts test this fall.
''This is definitely a holiday test, but we don't have an end date at this point,'' Ms. Lester said. An Amazon spokesman declined to comment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An online ad for Wal-Mart's same-day delivery service, which is being tested in several cities. (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); CITIES (76%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (98%); AMAZON.COM INC (85%); SAM'S CLUB (66%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (98%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (85%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (98%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (98%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (85%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (85%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012



400 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
PRIME MINISTER OF ISRAEL CALLS FOR EARLY ELECTIONS
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called for elections early next year rather than October of 2013, saying that conversations with his coalition partners had proved it would be impossible to pass ''a responsible budget'' with deep cuts. Page A4
GLUED TO A CORRUPTION CASE
Brazilians have been riveted by the televised spectacle at the nation's high court, where justices are sparring over what is arguably Brazil's largest corruption scandal. In a country where elite citizens are often shielded by the courts, prominent politicians and bankers may actually go to jail. Page A4
FRANCE APPROVES BUDGET
The majority of the lower house of the French Parliament approved the ratification of a European budget discipline treaty. President François Hollande, his party and allies passed the measure without votes of the center-right politicians. Page A6
NORTH KOREA ISSUES WARNING
North Korea claimed to have missiles that can reach the American mainland, and it said that the recent agreement between the United States and South Korea to extend the range of the South's ballistic missiles was increasing the risk of war on the Korean Peninsula. Page A6
National
BLACK SUPPORT FOR OBAMA
WAVERS IN NORTH CAROLINA
In 2008, a strong black turnout that voted almost exclusively for Mr. Obama was credited with helping to win North Carolina for the Democrats for the first time in decades, contributing to his ultimate victory. But times have changed. Page A12
FIGHT OVER WHALES FOR PARKS
A proposal by the Georgia Aquarium in Atlanta to import 18 beluga whales for popular interactive park attractions in the United States is drawing fierce opposition from animal rights advocates and others who object to their removal from the wild. Page A15
FEWER PROTESTANTS IN U.S.
For the first time since researchers began tracking the religious identity of Americans, fewer than half said they were Protestants, a steep decline from 50 years ago when Protestant churches claimed the loyalty of more than two-thirds of the population. Page A17
New York
MUSLIM CLERIC PLEADS
NOT GUILTY IN TERROR CASE
The fiery Islamic preacher who was flown to the United States from Britain after a lengthy extradition battle has pleaded not guilty to terrorism charges in a Manhattan courtroom. Page A19
Business
JAPANESE CARMAKERS
CUT PRODUCTION IN CHINA
Japanese automakers suffered plunging sales and have cut manufacturing by up to half in China after violent protests against Japanese-branded cars and even their owners. Page B1
BANK SEES EURO PROGRESSING
The president of the European Central Bank joined a small but growing number of economists who argue that, even though the euro zone still faces huge economic problems, there are tentative signs that two years of adjustments are beginning to pay off. Page B5
Sports
N.C.A.A. PENALIZES PROGRAM
AT TEXAS SOUTHERN
The N.C.A.A. cited Texas Southern for ''a lack of institutional control'' over its athletics programs, laying out a bevy of violations that included 129 athletes in 13 sports competing while ineligible over a span of seven years. Page B14
Arts
HOW LEFTOVERS BECOME
A FEAST FOR THE EYES
With her images of half-nibbled sweets and crumb-strewn tablecloths, Laura Letinsky has taken the discussion on photography to a different realm: food. Page C1
Dining
NO APOLOGIES NECESSARY WHEN A DISH TASTES GOOD
If the dish you've prepared looks funny but tastes fine, don't say you're sorry. It's the desire for perfection, however unconscious, that causes many otherwise practical cooks to think they must recreate entire meals. That's only an option. There's another solution. Page D1
Op-Ed
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); RELIGION (85%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (84%); AUTOMAKERS (84%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (84%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROVALS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); EXTRADITION (76%); EURO ZONE (74%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SCANDALS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); MARINE MAMMALS (69%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); MONETARY UNIONS (62%); TERRORISM (60%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (61%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (73%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); BRAZIL (93%); FRANCE (92%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2012

 
