

201 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: Rift Over AIDS Treatment Lingers in South Africa

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: KWANGWANASE, South Africa 

 BODY:
Colin Pfaff, a slight doctor imbued with Christian zeal, had reached a moral crossroads. 
 Dr. Pfaff knew that giving H.I.V.-positive women and their newborns two anti-AIDS drugs instead of one would reduce the odds that mothers would pass the virus to their babies. For months, he and doctors from other hospitals pleaded with provincial health authorities for permission to use the approach, in a province where a staggering 4 in 10 pregnant women were infected.
 ''We cannot sit in silence any longer,'' they wrote last May.
 But South Africa had not yet adopted the two-drug strategy, as recommended by the World Health Organization, and the doctors' request was rebuffed. 
 So, Dr. Pfaff made his choice. He raised the money on his own.
 Then a week after the national health department said in January that it would begin requiring the use of both drugs, health authorities here in KwaZulu-Natal Province charged Dr. Pfaff with misconduct for raising money from a British charity and carrying out the very same preventive treatment ''without permission.''
 Dr. Pfaff's case has stirred a furious reaction from rural doctors and advocates on AIDS issues, raising questions not only about a doctor's duties in the public health system, but also about why it took so long for South Africa, a country with more H.I.V.-positive people than any other in the world, to act. 
 The evidence that two drugs together -- AZT plus nevirapine -- work better than one has been accumulating since a clinical trial in Thailand was published in 2004 in The New England Journal of Medicine. 
 Even here in South Africa, the approach has worked. The Western Cape Province has deeply reduced mother-to-baby H.I.V. infection rates since 2004 -- to less than 5 percent from 22 percent -- by using both drugs.
 AIDS advocates are celebrating the government's new policy. Still, they contend that South Africa, the region's economic powerhouse, should have put it into practice long ago, but lacked the political will. 
 Sibani Mngadi, a spokesman for South Africa's Health Department, disagreed, saying the government took the time needed to review the data and consult various players after the W.H.O. issued its recommendation in 2006. ''There were a number of issues to be debated,'' he said. 
 For years, the country's political leaders have faced harsh international criticism for their resistance to providing antiretroviral medicines. Only after a 2002 court order did the government begin providing nevirapine to prevent women from infecting their babies.
 In years past, President Thabo Mbeki defended the country's consultation of dissident scientists who denied that H.I.V. causes AIDS, while Health Minister Manto Tshabalala-Msimang has promoted indigenous remedies, including diets of garlic, beetroot and African potatoes. 
 Rural doctors in this district say babies were needlessly infected as a result of the government's slow pace. 
 ''You can't uninfect them once they're infected, can you?'' said Dr. Victor Fredlund, who has been at the hospital in Mseleni for 27 years.
 In this remote, northeastern corner of the country, with its heart-stoppingly big skies and lush coast, doctors see grieving mothers carry babies with AIDS -- feverish, vomiting and miserable -- back to the hospitals where they were born.
 In the doctors' letter to the provincial authorities in May, Dr. Pfaff, acting medical manager at Manguzi Hospital here, said they thought it was unethical to withhold a treatment used so successfully elsewhere. ''We know better options are available and that we have the capacity to deliver them,'' he wrote. 
 In an e-mail message, Dr. Sandile Buthelezi, a provincial health official, acknowledged that the mother-to-baby transmission rate in KwaZulu-Natal, where only nevirapine was used, was 23 percent, while it was less than 5 percent in the Western Cape.
 But he also wrote that nevirapine was still the nationally approved regimen and that the cost of adding AZT was not yet factored into the budget. ''I am wary of us undermining national just because of what other provinces are doing,'' he wrote.
 After Dr. Pfaff was charged with misconduct for using the two-drug regimen at Manguzi, advocacy groups took up his cause, as did the political opposition, which seemed only to further rile provincial officials.
 ''We will not allow anyone to pull vulturistic theatrics to mystify this matter for their own political gain,'' the provincial health department said in a Feb. 11 press release.
 Peggy Nkonyeni, the African National Congress politician who is the health minister here, visited Manguzi Hospital after the charges were filed. Her spokesman, Desmond Motha, said she told the staff that antiretroviral medicines were not a cure for AIDS, ''that the medicine they receive is indeed toxic and that's why people need to be counseled.''
 The Treatment Action Campaign, the country's most influential AIDS advocacy group, met last month with Mrs. Nkonyeni. Its spokesman, Nathan Geffen, said they were horrified to notice that the minister's desk had on it only a notepad and a book, ''End Aids! Break the Chains of Pharmaceutical Colonialism,'' by Dr. Matthias Rath, whose ideas have been denounced by many medical groups and experts.
 On his Web site, Dr. Rath contends that antiretroviral drugs attack and destroy the immune system and accuses multinational companies of using poor countries as a marketplace for their ''toxic and often deadly drugs.''
 Mrs. Nkonyeni's spokesman said a member of the Treatment Action Campaign disrespectfully told his boss ''she should put the book in the dust bin.''
 ''It's her right to read the book,'' Mr. Motha said angrily
 As protests mounted, the Pfaff case became an embarrassment to the governing A.N.C., which in December ousted Mr. Mbeki as its president. The party's new leaders seem to be seeking to reduce the acrimony between the party and AIDS advocacy groups. It has already reached out to the treatment campaign.
 ''That's a huge move forward,'' said Nozizwe Madlala-Routledge, who was fired by Mr. Mbeki in August as deputy health minister but was often credited with pushing for scientifically based action against AIDS.
 Mr. Geffen said that he hoped that the Pfaff case was ''the last kick of a dying horse'' and that the A.N.C.'s new leaders would take a fresh approach to AIDS.
 So it was perhaps not surprising that days after meeting with members of the treatment campaign, the provincial health department confirmed that Mrs. Nkonyeni had decided to withdraw the misconduct charges against Dr. Pfaff.
 Her spokesman, Mr. Motha, said Mrs. Nkonyeni managed a program to provide drugs to people with AIDS and would carry out the new guidelines to give both nevirapine and AZT to pregnant women. 
 Those new rules will be important to Phiwili Ntuli, who is now five months pregnant and working in a sweltering phone shop for $80 a month to support her 19-month-old, H.I.V.-positive son, Mpumelele. 
 Ms. Ntuli was given nevirapine only when she went into labor in Manguzi Hospital in July 2006. The drug did not work. 
 Her affectionate son, who is still unable to stand or walk on his own, endured months of sickness before he began taking antiretroviral medicines he will probably need for the rest of his life. 
 Ms. Ntuli said she was never told that a second drug might have prevented her son's infection. ''Using just one drug makes them guilty,'' she said of South Africa's leaders. ''They're not thinking of the people.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mpumelele, who is H.I.V. positive, regularly receives antiretroviral medicines. His mother, not shown here, was given only nevirapine before his birth in 2006. She said she was never told that a second drug might have helped prevent her son's infection.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIELLA FURRER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (92%); AIDS & HIV (92%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (92%); ANTIVIRALS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); DRUG POLICY (77%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); RURAL HEALTH (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (72%); MISCONDUCT (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (53%) SOUTH AFRICA (97%); THAILAND (79%); UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



202 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN THE YONKERS WATERFRONT DISTRICT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: It Had the Setting; Now It Has the Housing

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
LIKE a caterpillar undergoing a metamorphosis, the down-and-out industrial waterfront of Yonkers is shedding its old skin.
 These days, sleek midrise residences are going up where factories once spewed fumes. Grand old buildings have been put to new use, including a three-story trolley barn, built in 1900 in the Renaissance Revival style, which now contains loft units and a fitness studio that offers belly-dancing classes.
 The Metro-North station has been restored to its 1911 Beaux Arts self; its reputation as a locus for prostitution and drug dealing is now a memory. 
 Leading out to the water, a Victorian-era pier -- less than a decade ago a site where homeless people gathered -- is a New York Water Taxi embarkation point for Wall Street. It is also home to a glass-enclosed 260-seat restaurant overlooking the Palisades and other Hudson River marvels. 
 There is more on the drawing board for this area, which encompasses the waterfront radiating northward from Getty Square, the core of this 18-square-mile city. But already it is attracting new kinds of residents, some of them young professionals whom the area's investors call ''urban pioneers.'' As a catalyst for change in this city of nearly 200,000 (the fourth-largest in the state), the neighborhood has fed expectations among officials like Mayor Philip A. Amicone, who knows all too well its history of repeated revitalization attempts. 
 ''I've lived in this city since I was 2 years old,'' said the mayor, 59, ''and they've been talking about redeveloping the downtown for as long as I can remember. Now, for the first time, that possibility seems real, especially since more than $1 billion has been invested in recent years along the waterfront.'' 
 The investment is luring people like Hope Maddox, 24, who cited not only the rent (especially affordable compared with New York City's), but also the 30-minute commute to Grand Central Terminal and an urban setting reminiscent of Brooklyn and Hoboken. Internet-savvy like many of her new neighbors, Ms. Maddox discovered Getty Square through Craigslist.org and other Web sites.
 A new job as an assistant fashion designer on Seventh Avenue in Manhattan was what brought Ms. Maddox to the New York area from Tuscaloosa, Ala. ''It's my dream apartment,'' she said of her studio with its synthetic grass patio, which she moved into last month at 66Main, which has ''green'' geothermal heating and cooling. Her rent is $1,400 a month. ''I couldn't have found something I could afford in the city itself,'' she said. ''I would have had to share.'' Yet, the glitz and glamour of a new downtown notwithstanding, some worry that in the rebuilding process, too much of the old city's architecture and history will be swept away. 
 Nortrud Wolf Spero, the owner of a local real estate company, is of two minds about the revival. Prices are rising as a result of the development, especially in single-family home areas near Getty Square, where she sells property. But as a trustee of the Yonkers Historical Society and a member of the City Council's Green Policy Task Force, she said, she worries ''that in the business of renewal, the past could get lost.'' 
 Another worry is the displacement of less affluent residents. ''Upscale is nice,'' she said, ''but an area should retain its diversity.''
 WHAT YOU'LL FIND
 Throughout the area, the refurbished and the decaying exist side by side. 
 There is the strip of restaurants near the acclaimed new X2O Xaviars on the Hudson; along Main Street, there are others, in addition to a nail salon and a boutique, that have opened in response to the construction.
 Yet along Buena Vista Avenue, less than a block from Main Street, buildings like the ornate Romanesque-and-Gothic Teutonia Hall, once a fraternal gathering site for immigrants, stand empty. Crime remains a problem, acknowledged Lt. Diane Hessler, a spokeswoman for the Police Department, although it has eased somewhat. According to statistics posted on the department's Web site, 314 crimes against individuals (like assault, for example) were committed during 2006 in the Fourth Precinct, of which the waterfront district is a part. In 1997, that number was 426. 
 But such problems are not deterring developers like Nicholas Sprayregen, who has invested $30 million in 18 contiguous parcels for a future mixed-use development. He plans to move his offices to Yonkers from Manhattan. 
 As for any red tape hindering development, Mr. Sprayregen doesn't let it cramp his style. ''I'm ready to be as patient as I need to be,'' he said. 
 Others are exhibiting less patience. Struever Fidelco Cappelli, which has an environmental impact statement for a $3.1 billion mixed-use proposal before the City Council, has threatened to withdraw the proposal because of delays. 
 WHAT YOU'LL PAY
 Between the railroad tracks and the river, Collins Enterprises, a developer based in Stamford, Conn., is completing Hudson Park North, two brick towers with 294 luxury units ready to be occupied this spring. Monthly rents will start at $1,800 for a one-bedroom. 
 Hudson Park South, the two towers constituting the first phase of the development, has 266 apartments, 97 percent leased, said Rona Siegel, operations vice president of Collins. Among the renters, she said, are empty nesters, young professionals, actors working in Manhattan, and young families.
 Diane Bender, a paralegal in Manhattan, and her boyfriend, Neal Myers, a freelance chef, moved from a studio in Manhattan last month into a Hudson Park South one-bedroom with river views. They pay $2,100 a month. Ms. Bender's commute takes less time, she said, than the bus ride from the East Side walk-up that the couple, both in their early 50s, rented before moving. 
 In addition to the newer buildings, Ms. Spero said, there are a few dozen units available in converted commercial buildings and above storefronts. 
 The complex that Ms. Maddox, the fashion designer, moved into, has drawn mostly singles, said Kenneth W. Dearden, a principal in DW Capital, real estate developers, its Yonkers-based builder. The place has 170 units with floor-to-ceiling windows, a media room, a basketball court and a pet-friendly policy, because ''that's what young singles like,'' Mr. Dearden said. Rents range from $1,400 for a studio to $4,050 for a two-bedroom with river views.
 DW Capital also remade the old trolley barn, Metro92; its loft-style one-bedrooms have 20-foot ceilings and 10-foot windows. Rents start at $2,800.
 For buyers, a one-bedroom condo in the Scrimshaw House on the waterfront lists for $249,000. 
 THE COMMUTE
 Metro-North provides 25- to 30-minute service on the Hudson Line from Getty Square Station to Grand Central. On the return trip, trains stopping in Yonkers leave Grand Central as late as 1:50 a.m. A daily round-trip ticket bought at the station costs $15.50; a monthly bought on the Web is $165.62. 
 New York Water Taxi offers 45-minute service to the World Financial Center and 57-minute service to Wall Street. A one-way trip costs $12; a 40-trip ticket is $400. 
 WHAT TO DO
 Residents like Ms. Bender and Mr. Myers frequent restaurants like X2O Xaviars at the pier, and Zuppa Restaurant and Lounge, an Italian restaurant on Main Street. Andiamo, a takeout and catering arm of Zuppa, is also a favorite, as is Belle Havana, a Cuban-French spot that features live music. 
 The Beczak Environmental Education Center is in a two-acre riverside park north of the train station. Events include a Catch of the Day program, with participants in waders dragging a 30-foot net through the water. 
 The Loft Dance and Fitness on Main Street Square offers classes in yoga, Pilates, body sculpting, cardio kick boxing and jazz funk, among other things. 
 And for curling up on a sofa with a book while taking in river views, there is no better place than Yonkers's new 200,000-square-foot public library, a cornerstone of the revitalization effort.
 THE SCHOOLS
 For families new to the waterfront area apartments, options in the unwieldy and financially troubled Yonkers school system include 29 elementary schools (10 for prekindergarten through Grade 8), three middle schools and six high schools. In the fall, the district plans to open a College Board Academy high school, in collaboration with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. 
 Total enrollment is 24,153. Last year, SAT averages were 426 on the verbal, 423 in math and 421 in writing, according to Jerilynne Fierstein, a board of education spokeswoman. Statewide averages were 493, 483 and 510. 
 THE HISTORY
 The city's name honors its founder, Adriaen Van der Donck, known in the 17th century as ''Jonkheer'' (Dutch for ''young gentleman''). Incorporated as a village in 1855 and a city in 1872, Yonkers thrived on industry. It was where Elisha Graves Otis developed the safety elevator, making skyscrapers possible. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TAXI, ANYONE?: A metal canopy marks the embarkation point for the New York Water Taxi, which takes commuters from new rentals and condominiums in Yonkers to the Wall Street area. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP Map of the Yonkers Waterfront district. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HVAC SYSTEMS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); FASHION DESIGNERS (71%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (69%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (60%); PROSTITUTION (55%); HOMELESSNESS (54%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



203 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; URBAN STUDIES HANDING OUT CASH; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: Red, White And Greenbacks

BYLINE: By JAMES ANGELOS

 BODY:
''WE'RE giving away some cash!'' yelled the young man wearing the ruffled boa made of mock hundred-dollar bills. ''Just for wearing a green sticker,'' he added, his voice echoing amid the archways of the entrance to the Shops at Atlas Park, an outdoor mall in Glendale, Queens. 
 In response, several shoppers rushed to the mall's hospitality center, where adults and children alike were eagerly placing stickers with the logo ''I Support the Economy!'' on their jackets. Once stickered, they hurried back to the man in the boa. 
 The man in the boa had been dispatched last Sunday evening on what Damon Hemmerdinger, the mall's owner, views as a weighty mission. Amid talk of recession, Mr. Hemmerdinger decided to create his own personal economic stimulus package, hiring a marketing team called the Solution Squad to perk up the economy by giving away cash.
 On this Sunday evening, two other members of that squad, local college students dressed as Lady Liberty and Uncle Sam, stationed themselves near the man in the boa and began handing out $20 and $5 bills. 
 ''Can you all say, 'I love free money?' '' the man in the boa asked of a group of shoppers who had received their cash.
 ''I love free money!'' they replied obediently in unison.
 ''Spend it anywhere you please, as long as it goes right back into the economy,'' the man in the boa advised. 
 The Solution Squad has repeated this routine at various locations in Queens for the past three weeks, and promises to continue through most of April. Mr. Hemmerdinger said he would spend $20,000 on the gimmick, and while he admitted that the sum was unlikely to truly affect the economy, he praised the campaign's confidence-building message. 
 ''We all could do something with our reality and our spirit and our emotion to try and bring about economic recovery as quickly as we can,'' Mr. Hemmerdinger said. The attention for the mall is nice, too, he acknowledged. 
 On this night, after the events at the mall, the Solution Squad hopped into a blue Toyota Scion and headed for the Marine Air Terminal at La Guardia Airport, where travelers arriving from Boston and Washington were greeted with a chorus of shouts of ''Free cash!'' and ''Do you guys like free money?'' 
 One traveler gritted his teeth, refused to take the cash and muttered, ''Nothing in life is free.'' But Carlos Camilo, a porter from the Dominican Republic, was more receptive. 
 Standing at attention, he saluted as Lady Liberty and Uncle Sam were leaving. Barely concealing a grin, he called out, ''I will spend it here in the U.S.A.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At La Guardia Airport, patriotic costumes and a little extra money. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RETAIL PROPERTY (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



204 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Easy Come, Easy Go for Idealistic Heirs

BYLINE: By ABBY AGUIRRE

 BODY:
ANNE GLICKMAN, 34, inherited several million dollars in stock on her 18th birthday. She preferred not to think or talk about the money into her 20s because, she said, as a political activist, her wealth was a bit inconvenient.
 ''I felt like I was in hiding,'' she said.
 A dozen years later, the trust fund had grown to eight figures. ''Here I was, an activist thinking about class and race, but I wasn't really factoring in my own personal wealth,'' she said. ''I decided to give away a large number. It was scary, but I just had to do it.''
 So far, Ms. Glickman said, she has given away $1.2 million, and she plans to give away more. 
 Her mother was not thrilled. ''I was shocked,'' Francie Glickman said. ''I had never heard of such a thing. My response was, 'That's a lot of money!' ''
 Anne Glickman is part of a movement of relatively young heirs who practice what they call social justice philanthropy, an outgrowth of '60s activism that emphasizes giving to small, local groups. Karen Pittelman, 32, a singer in a punk band, said she inherited $3.5 million seven years ago and gave away all but $15,000. Jamie Schweser, 35, an author of the novel ''Tales of a Punk Rock Nothing,'' said he inherited $1 million eight years ago and gave away three quarters of it.
 While most of these philanthropists do not give away their entire fortune, they do give away enough to violate a cardinal rule of wealth management: don't touch the principal. Heirs are often advised to give away only a percentage of any investment income, and to leave the rest alone.
 What motivates people to give away so much of their money? Short of donating a kidney to a stranger, it is hard to imagine acting more altruistically. Is it simply a sense of justice? Guilt? Rebellion? In interviews with almost two dozen of these philanthropists, the reasons given were complex, often having as much to do with family dynamics as politics.
 For Anne Glickman, the decision was not about trying to live an ascetic life. ''I'm not an antimaterialist,'' she said. ''I don't believe you shouldn't have a nice TV. But people said, 'What about your unborn children?' And at the time I think I was sitting on $12 million. I mean, how much do you need to raise children?''
 Tyrone Boucher, 25, said he told his father he wanted to donate his six-figure trust fund to groups that work for racial equality. As part of his argument, he pointed to the growing gap between the rich and the poor. 
 His father, he said, responded: '' 'Tyrone, we're not really rich. There are people who have multiple homes and private jets.'
 ''And I'd say, 'But the thing is, you're talking about your friends who are in the top 1 percent, and we're in the top 5 percent.'
 ''The point isn't to dis my dad,'' he added. ''The point is, what's enough?''
 Many donors said these conversations were the first they had with their parents about what it means to have money. A reluctance to discuss wealth, therapists and psychologists said, happens in every generation.
 ''It's the most taboo of subjects,'' said Judith Stern Peck, director of the Money, Values and Family Life Project at the Ackerman Institute for the Family in New York. ''Parents don't talk about it for a myriad of reasons -- because they don't want to spoil their children, because it might touch on a host of other things that are also difficult to talk about. Or perhaps because there might be contradictions between what they say their values are and what they do with their money.''
 And the taboo, said Dr. Jim Grubman, a psychologist and frequent consultant to wealthy families, leaves a vacuum. Then these heirs receive millions of dollars, ''at which point,'' he said, ''they're often struggling to establish an identity, struggling to understand and handle the money, struggling to cope with economic differences in the world that have begun to generate guilt or entitlement, or both.'' 
 Groups like the nonprofit Resource Generation offer programs and seminars for wealthy adults under 35. Participants describe the meetings as something like a support group.
 ''But the point is not to be like, O.K., now I can feel good about myself,'' Mr. Boucher said. ''The point is to be like, O.K., now that I can stop hating myself I'm going to do something.''
 In that way, these philanthropists can seem motivated as much by guilt as by altruism. ''When the money was suddenly in my name and I really came to grips with my privilege and class background, the denial came apart,'' Mr. Schweser remembered. ''I realized: I am literally the Man.''
 Mr. Schweser gave the bulk of his trust fund to small nonprofit groups like Critical Resistance, which tries to prevent the construction of new prisons. He also helped start the Gulf South Allied Funders, which helps areas devastated by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Ms. Pittelman started a foundation to support a variety of grass-roots groups in Boston. 
 Some philanthropy experts argue that this kind of giving is important because it does not demand guaranteed success. 
 ''Social change takes a long time,'' said Joe Voeller, a spokesman for the Ford Foundation, which has given Resource Generation three $100,000 grants since 2002. ''Social justice philanthropy needs young donors who are not treating it as a passing fad but are committed to walking the walk.'' 
 But others question whether philanthropy can fix entrenched social problems. 
 ''Some change can occur through philanthropy, but at a certain point you need the political process and good policy,'' said Patrick Rooney, director of research at the Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University. 
 And financial planners wonder if political views and personal wealth should be so entwined. 
 ''You have these young people gazing upon an event like Katrina, on the tide of human suffering, and they say, 'I have a million dollars, how can I watch this?' '' said Ron Gallen, a financial adviser on the Upper East Side whose clients include young heirs. ''And the answer is, because you have to. You have to be able to watch these things and go on with your life, otherwise you'll be broke.'' 
 As generous as they are, most of the young philanthropists interviewed do not need to work; many depend on income from their investments or on help from their parents. And most are likely to inherit more money. 
 Yet they were quick to wave off suggestions that this cushion made parting with millions any easier. And they all said they intended to continue giving away the same percentage of their wealth. Still, one wonders if they will regret their generosity later.
 ''There's not really a danger that they're going to be cast into poverty,'' said Lisa Leff, a financial consultant who works with philanthropists like Ms. Glickman. ''The greater risk is that you make decisions not realizing that you will grow older and your interests will change. And I do know a couple people for whom youthful giving had unforeseen consequences.''
 One example might be David Crocker, 59, a self-described child of the '60s, who gave away much of his money to a Boston foundation he helped launch, the Haymarket People's Fund. 
 ''I don't know if it's because I'm older, having come a long way from where I was, but I see that it's important for people to be kind to themselves and prudent with their financial resources,'' said Mr. Crocker, reached by phone at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. 
 ''That said, I don't think I would do anything really differently. There have been financial repercussions for me, but it's been O.K., because I really believe in the things I did.''
 Mr. Crocker is a financial adviser.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: YOUNG MONEY: Left, young philanthropists at a fund-raiser in Manhattan for Katrina victims. Below, Erica Waples talking to Jamie Schweser, who inherited $1 million eight years ago and gave away most of it.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICHOLAS ROBERTS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); PHILANTHROPY (87%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); FAMILY (73%); POP & ROCK (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (66%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (66%); WRITERS (65%); ORGAN DONATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



205 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; POSTING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Powerhouses to the People

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
AS long as lights go on when switches are flipped, most people don't think much about where power comes from. But what if you lived, shopped, or sipped drinks inside a former power plant?
 Developers have recently taken an interest in reusing these large-scale industrial relics, even if converting them may require cleaning soil, adding floors and removing smokestacks.
 The PowerHouse Condominium at 50-09 Second Street in Long Island City, Queens, for example, will have 447 units on the site of a structure designed by McKim, Mead & White in 1909 to provide electricity for trains. 
 The $200 million project, which is being developed by the Brooklyn-based CGS Developers and Zigmond Brach, is going up in three phases. 
 The first, to be completed in August, offers 177 units, from 500-square-foot studios to 1,500-square-foot three-bedrooms, with walnut floors and washer and dryer hookups. They are priced from $500,000 to $2 million, and 30 percent have sold since October, says Cheskel Schwimmer, a CGS principal.
 These first apartments are also the only ones to be contained in actual sections of the former plant, which retained its tall arched windows but lost its four 275-foot chimneys.
 It came close to losing a lot more than that. The original proposal was to raze it, which would have saved $40 million. But the community outcry forced Mr. Schwimmer to alter his plans, he said. 
 Preserving at least some of the building may work to his advantage. ''People like history and want to live in historic businesses,'' he said.
 The restoration might also spur a neighborhood revitalization, as is hoped in Jersey City, which has already coined the name Powerhouse Arts District in honor of a plant yet to be converted on Washington Boulevard and First Street.
 First, an attached substation for the PATH subway needs to be relocated, a four-year process that will begin in April, according to Robert Antonicello, the executive director of the Jersey City Redevelopment Agency. 
 His group also recently hired the architecture firm Beyer Blinder Belle as part of a $3.2 million effort to stabilize the water-damaged 1908 structure, Mr. Antonicello said.
 By 2013, the plant is to have 180,000 square feet across five floors, filled with galleries, restaurants and offices, under a $90 million plan from the Cordish Company, a developer that has transformed plants in Baltimore, where it is based, and Richmond, Va. 
 The progress in Jersey City may be welcome news to the Athena Group, a developer that has three residential projects at various stages of development nearby. 
 The first, which has been completed, is A Condominiums, with 35 stories and 250 units -- from 515-square-foot one-bedrooms to 1,366-square-foot two-bedrooms -- priced from $300,000 to $1.2 million. Ninety percent have sold since November 2006, said Eugene Cordano, an agent at Halstead Property. 
 The fate is less certain for an 80,000-square-foot power plant on the Hudson, in the Glenwood section of Yonkers.
 The REMI Companies of Manhattan had planned to build 400 units there until a few weeks ago, when talks fell apart with the seller, Kenneth Capolino, a contractor based in White Plains, said Erik A. Kaiser, REMI's chief executive.
 The new plan has been scaled down by $100 million, to $150 million, and calls for 250 units, he said.
 Although the plant would lose its two chimneys, Mr. Kaiser says, the bulk of its design won't be compromised -- an aspect essential to marketing. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: JOLTS FROM 1909: A Long Island City, Queens, condo first designed as an electrical plant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK ANDRADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (75%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%)

COMPANY: BEYER BLINDER BELLE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (52%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (68%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



206 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: A Hitting Expert Extends His Reach

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
Lou Piniella rejects the suggestion that he is the godfather of Japanese hitters in the major leagues. ''No, it just happens I've been on teams where a young man like Ichiro chose to come to Seattle and now Fukudome has come to Chicago,'' he said.
 There is no manager with more up-close experience with Japanese hitters and no more knowledgeable manager to talk about hitting than Piniella.
 In his playing days a few decades ago, Piniella obsessed over his hitting mechanics. He would stand in the clubhouse holding an imaginary bat as he studied his stance in a mirror. His wife, Anita, has told of him getting out of bed in the middle of the night and assuming his batting pose, with and without a bat, in front of the bedroom mirror. 
 Then there was the Yankees' opening day in Milwaukee. After the grounds crew had prepared the County Stadium infield for the game, Piniella stepped into the batter's box, bat in hands, assumed his stance, peered out at the vacant pitcher's mound and waited for an imaginary pitch.
 This is a man who knows hitting. And now he has extended his expertise to Japanese hitters, managing Ichiro Suzuki for two years with the Mariners and now managing Kosuke Fukudome with the Cubs.
 ''They're very disciplined hitters,'' Piniella said. ''They have great work habits, they have a unique style of hitting that isn't taught in this country. They learned it through batting practice, their instruction and they use film. They have their own way of hitting.
 ''They stand a little closer to the plate than American hitters. When they stride, they don't step toward the pitcher but more toward first base or third base, depending on whether they're left-handed or right-handed. Their top stays stationary so they're nice and square and their hands are steady when they hit.
 ''It's a unique way of hitting, but it's effective. Ichiro can hit the ball anywhere he wants. He can spray it to left, slap it to center, pull it to right.'' 
 Suzuki has been anything but sleepless in Seattle. In seven seasons, he has batted .333. He is the only player in major league history to have 200 hits in his first seven seasons, he is one of only three players to have seven successive 200-hit seasons, and he holds the major league record with 262 hits in a season.
 Before Suzuki, Japanese players who succeeded in the major leagues were pitchers. Suzuki was the hitting pioneer.
 ''When he had success, it opened our eyes to another market where we could acquire talent,'' Randy Bush, the Cubs' assistant general manager, said.
 But Suzuki has also set a lofty standard for all Japanese hitters to follow. Fukudome will be closely scrutinized this year.
 ''He looks more like a prototype American hitter than Ichiro when he first got here,'' Piniella said of Fukudome, his new right fielder. ''They both hold their hands high, the bats up and down not flat. They stride away from the pitcher, they don't stride to the pitcher, they stride between first base and second base so they clear their body.''
 Fukudome is probably a cross between Suzuki and Hideki Matsui of the Yankees, Piniella added. ''He's not as fast as Ichiro and doesn't have as much power as Matsui,'' he said. ''We're getting the elite from Japan. We're getting their best hitters.''
 Their hitting style, Piniella said, is solid and probably comes from the way Japanese players are ''taught to hit, not to slug.'' 
 ''It would be hard teaching their style to our hitters,'' Piniella said. ''They basically clear their lower half so much more pronounced than American hitters. They stay over the top very well and clear the bottom half.''
 Citing two of the game's best hitters ever, Piniella said Willie Mays hit like that, and Roberto Clemente would stride toward the third-base coach's box. Hitters in this country are taught to stride toward the pitcher.
 Bush, a former major leaguer, saw Fukudome play in Japan during a scouting trip in 2006 in which he also gained a sense of what was happening in Japanese baseball. 
 ''It's just become much more acceptable in their culture to leave there and come here,'' Bush said. ''Ichiro was the one who came over and had such outstanding success. Initially, when players left there and came here, there was a backlash if they shouldn't have left. When Ichiro had his success, it became more acceptable.''
 Instead of resenting players for leaving Japan, Bush said, fans have embraced their decisions.
 ''They're proud, and they want their players to be successful,'' he added. ''It legitimizes their style of play.''
 At the same time, the departure of good players could hurt the Japanese leagues. But Lou Melendez, baseball's vice president for international operations, said Japanese officials had expressed no complaints or concern.
 Piniella said he didn't know if there were other hitters in Japan who could join Suzuki, Matsui and Fukudome here, but he said, ''I know they're getting better and better, and with these three guys having success, I think you'll see more Japanese players coming over when they feel they're ready.''
 When the Cubs decided to try to sign Fukudome, they asked Piniella about his experience with Suzuki.
 ''I said this guy was a pro in every aspect,'' Piniella said he responded. ''He worked hard, played to win. I said it was a wonderful experience not only for us but for the city of Seattle to see a player come in and do what he did. The reports on Fukudome were very positive offensively and defensively. I encouraged our organization to pursue him.''
 And for four years and $48 million, the Cubs signed him.
 Asian Presence 
 Thirty-two Asian players are in major league spring training camps -- 24 on major league rosters and 8 invited players -- the commissioner's office said. Among the 32 are 21 pitchers and 11 position players.
 The Dodgers and the Mariners each have four Asians on their 40-man rosters, and the Dodgers have one nonroster player in camp. Three of the Mariners' players are position players, making them the only team with more than one Asian position player.
 Tadahito Iguchi (Japan), who last season played second base for the White Sox and the Phillies, is scheduled to play that position for the Padres this season. Kazuo Matsui (Japan) was the second baseman for the National League champion Rockies last season but will be the Astros' second baseman this season.
 Akinori Iwamura (Japan) played third base for the Rays last year but is set to be their second baseman this year. 
 Hiroki Kuroda (Japan) of the Dodgers is scheduled to join Chien-Ming Wang (Taiwan) of the Yankees and Daisuke Matsuzaka (Japan) of the Red Sox as Asian starting pitchers. 
 Support for Clemens 
 The owner of the Houston Astros and a Democratic New York representative would probably not agree on any political, economic or social issue, but Drayton McLane and Anthony D. Weiner agree on the plight of Roger Clemens.
 McLane, who has employed Clemens with a 10-year personal-services contract, said last week that Congress had better things to do than become involved with steroids in baseball and by extension with Clemens. 
 Weiner, who has been and may again be a candidate for mayor of New York City, said basically the same thing in a letter asking that the F.B.I. cease its investigation of the possibility that Clemens lied to Congress.
 ''It's unfortunate Congress selected this as a showcase,'' McLane said at forum at the Bush Presidential Library and Museum in College Station, Tex.
 Yes, it was unfortunate for Clemens because he got himself into a lot of potential trouble with his answers to questions at a hearing of the House oversight committee. Many people, including members of Congress, found many of Clemens's answers unbelievable.
 Weiner said terrorism and violent crime were more appropriate subjects for F.B.I. investigation than whether Clemens lied. Anyway, Weiner told The Associated Press, Clemens had been sufficiently shamed by his statements that were ''not likely'' truthful.
 But Clemens created his own problems. Maybe Congress should not have become involved, but once it did, it had a right to expect witnesses to tell the truth. Congress protects its position by pursuing perjury charges against people it feels have lied. It's the same with grand jury testimony. That's why Barry Bonds is under indictment on perjury charges.
 By the way, why didn't Weiner ask the feds to drop their case against Bonds? That one stems from steroids as well. Weiner might want to ask the government to leave Bonds alone. He could get another news release out of it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: SEATTLE MARINERS (55%); CHICAGO CUBS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (56%) WASHINGTON, USA (91%); WISCONSIN, USA (76%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



207 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: Gauging Age Of Universe Becomes More Precise

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG

 BODY:
The universe is 13.73 billion years old, give or take 120 million years, astronomers said last week.
 That age, based on precision measurements of the oldest light in the universe, agrees with results announced in 2006. Two additional years of data from a NASA satellite known as the Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe have narrowed the uncertainty by tens of millions of years. 
 ''Everything is tightening up and giving us better and better precision all the time,'' said Charles L. Bennett, a professor of physics and astronomy at Johns Hopkins University and the leader of the group analyzing the data. ''It's actually significantly better than previous results. There is all kinds of richness in the data.''
 About 380,000 years after the Big Bang, the universe cooled enough for protons and electrons to combine into hydrogen atoms. That released a burst of light, which over the billions of years since has cooled to a bath of microwaves pervading the cosmos.
 Yet there are slight variations in the background, which the NASA satellite has been measuring since 2001. Those variations have given evidence supporting an idea known as cosmic inflation, a rapid expansion of the universe in the first trillionth of a trillionth of a second of its existence.
 The new set of data is precise enough to differentiate between various proposed models of inflation. ''Some of them are now completely ruled out, some of them are hanging at the edge and some of them are perfectly fine,'' Dr. Bennett said. ''We are sorting between these things.''
 Astronomers can also now see strong evidence for the universe being awash in almost massless subatomic particles known as neutrinos. This sea of primordial neutrinos created in the Big Bang was expected.
 ''The new result is that it's not consistent with zero anymore,'' said Edward L. Wright, a professor of physics and astronomy at the University of California, Los Angeles, and another member of the team.
 As more years of data are gathered, Dr. Bennett said, astronomers may even be able to deduce new unusual types of neutrinos that have so far not been detected in particle accelerators.
 The new data also refine findings that the earliest stars switched on 400 million years after the Big Bang. The starlight started breaking up interstellar hydrogen atoms back into charged protons and electrons -- creating a fog that deflected the cosmic microwaves -- but took half a billion years to break apart all of the atoms.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); PARTICLE PHYSICS (89%); ASTROPHYSICS (89%); PHYSICS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (72%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



208 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: Take Aid From China and Take a Pass on Human Rights

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: COLOMBO, Sri Lanka 

 BODY:
 FOR 25 years, the dirty little war on this island in the Indian Ocean has stretched its octopus arms across the world. The ethnic Tamil diaspora has provided vital funding for separatist rebels; remittances from Sri Lankan workers abroad have propped up the economy; the government has relied on foreign assistance to battle the insurgency.
 Today, a shifting world order is bearing new fruits for Sri Lanka. Most notably, China's quiet assertion in India's backyard has put Sri Lanka's government in a position not only to play China off against India, but also to ignore complaints from outside Asia about human rights violations in the war. 
 The timing is propitious. The government jettisoned a five-year cease-fire this year, and is now banking on a military victory over the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam. In so doing, it has faced a barrage of criticism over human rights abuses and has lost defense aid from the United States and some other sources. And, in recent months, government officials have increasingly cozied up to countries that tend to say little to nothing on things like abductions and assaults on press freedom.
 Sri Lanka's foreign secretary, Palitha Kohona, put it plainly when he said that Sri Lanka's ''traditional donors,'' namely, the United States, Canada and the European Union, had ''receded into a very distant corner,'' to be replaced by countries in the East. He gave three reasons: The new donors are neighbors; they are rich; and they conduct themselves differently. ''Asians don't go around teaching each other how to behave,'' he said. ''There are ways we deal with each other -- perhaps a quiet chat, but not wagging the finger.''
 The Tamil Tigers, for their part, have succeeded in getting themselves classified as a terrorist group in many countries, including the United States, Canada and the European Union, making it harder for the guerrillas to raise money abroad.
 At the same time, according to Mr. Kohona, Chinese assistance has grown fivefold in the last year to nearly $1 billion, eclipsing Sri Lanka's longtime biggest donor, Japan. The Chinese are building a highway, developing two power plants and putting up a new port in the hometown of the president of Sri Lanka, Mahinda Rajapaksa.
 Sri Lanka also buys a lot of weapons from China and China's ally Pakistan.
 Chinese diplomacy in South Asia, grounded as it is in a policy of ''harmony'' and deep pockets, is of obvious concern to India. So are the sentiments of Tamils at home. Overt support from India for the Sri Lankan counterinsurgency program can be explosive among India's Tamils. But coming down hard on the government here could push Sri Lanka deeper into China's embrace.
 ''There is little choice,'' said Ashok Kumar Mehta, a retired general who was a leader of an Indian peacekeeping force in Sri Lanka nearly 20 years ago. ''India's policy is virtually hands off.''
 Mr. Kohona, the Sri Lankan foreign secretary, noted that India's contributions had also grown, to nearly $500 million this year. India is building a coal-fired power plant and Indian companies have been invited to build technology parks and invest in telecommunications. New Delhi, like Washington, has shut the tap on direct military support, but it can still help with crucial intelligence, particularly in intercepting weapons smuggled by sea.
 The picture in Sri Lanka is emblematic of a major shift from 20 years ago, when India was the only power center in the region. Now come China's artful moves in India's backyard. As C. Raja Mohan, an international relations professor at Nanyang Technological University in Singapore, points out, China has started building a circle of road-and-port connections in India's neighboring countries, and it has begun to eye a role in the Indian Ocean, as its thirst for natural resources makes it more important to secure the sea lanes.
 That offers countries like Sri Lanka ample opportunities. ''Now the smaller countries have increasingly turned to China to influence India's strategic interests, and thus silence it on human rights issues,'' said Meenakshi Ganguly, South Asia researcher for Human Rights Watch. She cited Burma, where, in the 1990s, India pressed for democracy and watched the military junta sidle up to Beijing. ''Now India is concerned about China's role in Sri Lanka because of control over the Indian Ocean,'' she said.
 Iran is the latest entrant. Late last year came the promise of a whopping $1.6 billion line of credit, primarily to help Sri Lanka buy Iranian oil.
 Washington still counts. Sri Lanka is sore at losing American military aid and development assistance. The United States has also irritated the government by pressing for United Nations human rights monitors after the visit last October of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Louise Arbour. She said at the end of her visit that ''the weakness of the rule of law and prevalence of impunity is alarming.''
 That infuriated the government. Sri Lanka's mission in Geneva sent out acerbic opinion pieces published in Sri Lankan newspapers. One, an editorial in the pro-government newspaper, The Island, declared that ''those U.N. knights in shining armor tilting at windmills in small countries should be told that the protection of human rights is next to impossible during a fiercely fought war.'' Still, criticism over human rights continues to dog Sri Lanka. 
 Last Thursday, a report by Human Rights Watch blamed the government for a pattern of disappearances. The same day, an international Group of Eminent Persons that the government had invited to monitor Sri Lankan investigations into human rights violations said it was leaving; it cited ''a lack of political and institutional will.''
 The attorney general's office responded by saying that the government would reconstitute the panel with ''an alternate group of eminent persons.''
 But however free Sri Lanka feels to dismiss Western concerns about human rights these days, there are still long-range costs it may find itself confronting one day. The real Achilles' heel for the government is looming economic trouble, as its war chest expands and inflation reaches double digits. 
 And in that, the world matters. For its failure to ratify certain international conventions, Sri Lanka already risks losing trade preferences with the European Union at the end of this year. And, however much China has risen in importance, Europe remains this country's largest trading partner.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Disappeared: Relatives of missing Sri Lankans protested last October during a visit by a United Nations official.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GEMUNU AMARASINGHE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); TERRORISM (50%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMIL NADU, INDIA (94%); INDIAN OCEAN (90%) SRI LANKA (99%); CHINA (97%); INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (92%); ASIA (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%); SOUTHERN ASIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



209 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE FOOD CHAIN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1730 words

HEADLINE: A Global Need for Grain That Farms Can't Fill

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD; Will Connors contributed reporting from Lagos, Nigeria, and Salman Masood from Pakistan.

DATELINE: LAWTON, N.D. 

 BODY:
Whatever Dennis Miller decides to plant this year on his 2,760-acre farm, the world needs. Wheat prices have doubled in the last six months. Corn is on a tear. Barley, sunflower seeds, canola and soybeans are all up sharply.
 ''For once, there's great reason to be optimistic,'' Mr. Miller said.
 But the prices that have renewed Mr. Miller's faith in farming are causing pain far and wide. A tailor in Lagos, Nigeria, named Abel Ojuku said recently that he had been forced to cut back on the bread he and his family love.
 ''If you wanted to buy three loaves, now you buy one,'' Mr. Ojuku said. 
 Everywhere, the cost of food is rising sharply. Whether the world is in for a long period of continued increases has become one of the most urgent issues in economics.
 Many factors are contributing to the rise, but the biggest is runaway demand. In recent years, the world's developing countries have been growing about 7 percent a year, an unusually rapid rate by historical standards.
 The high growth rate means hundreds of millions of people are, for the first time, getting access to the basics of life, including a better diet. That jump in demand is helping to drive up the prices of agricultural commodities.
 Farmers the world over are producing flat-out. American agricultural exports are expected to increase 23 percent this year to $101 billion, a record. The world's grain stockpiles have fallen to the lowest levels in decades.
 ''Everyone wants to eat like an American on this globe,'' said Daniel W. Basse of the AgResource Company, a Chicago consultancy. ''But if they do, we're going to need another two or three globes to grow it all.''
 In contrast to a run-up in the 1990s, investors this time are betting -- as they buy and sell contracts for future delivery of food commodities -- that scarcity and high prices will last for years.
 If that comes to pass, it is likely to present big problems in managing the American economy. Rising food prices in the United States are already helping to fuel inflation reminiscent of the 1970s.
 And the increases could become an even bigger problem overseas. The increases that have already occurred are depriving poor people of food, setting off social unrest and even spurring riots in some countries.
 In the long run, the food supply could grow. More land may be pulled into production, and outdated farming methods in some countries may be upgraded. Moreover, rising prices could force more people to cut back. The big question is whether such changes will be enough to bring supply and demand into better balance.
 ''People are trying to figure out, is this a new era?'' said Joseph Glauber, chief economist for the United States Department of Agriculture. ''Are prices going to be high forever?''
 Competition for Acres 
 At a moment when much of the country is contemplating recession, farmers are flourishing. The Agriculture Department forecasts that farm income this year will be 50 percent greater than the average of the last 10 years. The flood of money into American agriculture is leading to rising land values and a renewed sense of optimism in rural America.
 ''All of a sudden farmers are more in control, which is a weird position for them,'' said Brian Sorenson of the Northern Crops Institute in Fargo, N.D. ''Everyone's knocking at their door, saying, 'Grow this, grow that.' ''
 Mr. Miller's family has worked the Great Plains for more than a century. One afternoon early last month, he turned on the computer in his combination office and laundry room to see what commodity prices were up to.
 ''Oh, my goodness, look at that,'' Mr. Miller said. Barley was $6.40 a bushel, approaching a price that would tempt him to plant more. Soybeans were $12.79 a bushel, up from $8.50 in August.
 The frozen earth outside was only a few weeks from coming to life, but Mr. Miller was happily uncertain about what to plant. Last year, the decision was easy for Mr. Miller and everyone else: prices of corn were high because of new government mandates for production of ethanol, a motor fuel. This year, so many crops look like good bets, and there is so little land on which to plant them.
 ''I'm debating between spring wheat, durum wheat, canola, malting barley, confection sunflowers, oil sunflowers, soybeans, flax and corn,'' Mr. Miller said.
 The biggest blemish on this winter of joy is that farmers' own costs are rising rapidly. Expenses for the diesel fuel used to run tractors and combines and for the fertilizer essential to modern agriculture have soared. Mr. Miller does not just want high prices; he needs them to pay his bills.
 Until recently, he could expect around $3 a bushel for his wheat -- far less than his parents and grandparents received, when inflation is taken into account. Consumption in the United States was dropping as Americans shunned carbohydrates. The export market, while healthy, faced competition.
 Now prices have more than tripled, partly because of a drought in Australia and bad harvests elsewhere and also because of unslaked global demand for crackers, bread and noodles. In seven of the last eight years, world wheat consumption has outpaced production. Stockpiles are at their lowest point in decades.
 Around the world, wheat is becoming a precious commodity. In Pakistan, thousands of paramilitary troops have been deployed since January to guard trucks carrying wheat and flour. Malaysia, trying to keep its commodities at home, has made it a crime to export flour and other products without a license. Consumer groups in Italy staged a widely publicized (if also widely disregarded) one-day pasta strike last fall.
 In the United States, the price of dry pasta has risen 20 percent since October, according to government data. Flour is up 19 percent since last summer. Over all, food and beverage prices are rising 4 percent a year, the fastest pace in nearly two decades.
 The American Bakers Association last month took the radical step of suggesting that American exports be curtailed to keep wheat at home, though the group later backed off.
 If all this suggests a golden age for American growers, it could well be brief, said Bruce Babcock, an economist at Iowa State University. He predicted that farmers would do their best to ramp up production, possibly to the point of pulling land out of conservation programs so they could plant more. ''Give farmers a price incentive, and they'll produce,'' he said.
 The Agriculture Department forecasts that world wheat production will increase 8 percent this year. In the United States, spring and durum wheat plantings are expected to rise by two million acres, helping to drive prices down to $7 a bushel, the government said.
 Yet the competition among crops for acreage has become so intense that some farmers think the government and analysts like Mr. Babcock are being overly optimistic.
 Read Smith, a farmer in St. John, Wash., thinks a new era is at hand for all sorts of crops. ''Price spikes have usually been short-lived,'' he said. ''I think this one is different.''
 His example is plain old mustard. Two years ago, Mr. Smith would have been paid less than 15 cents a pound for mustard seeds. As more lucrative crops began supplanting mustard, dealers raised their offering price to 20 cents, then 30 cents, then 48 cents early this year. Mr. Smith gave in, agreeing to convert up to 100 acres of wheat fields to mustard.
 Mr. Smith said it was inevitable that supermarket mustard, just like flour, bread and pasta, would become more expensive.
 ''We've lulled the public with cheap food,'' he said. ''It's not going to be a steal anymore.''
 Bread to Be Had, for a Price
 As the newly urbanized and newly affluent seek more protein and more calories, a phenomenon called ''diet globalization'' is playing out around the world. Demand is growing for pork in Russia, beef in Indonesia and dairy products in Mexico. Rice is giving way to noodles, home-cooked food to fast food.
 Though wracked with upheaval for years and with many millions still rooted in poverty, Nigeria has a growing middle class. Median income per person doubled in the first half of this decade, to $560 in 2005. Much of this increase is being spent on food.
 Nigeria grows little wheat, but its people have developed a taste for bread, in part because of marketing by American exporters. Between 1995 and 2005, per capita wheat consumption in Nigeria more than tripled, to 44 pounds a year. Bread has been displacing traditional foods like eba, dumplings made from cassava root.
 Nigeria's wheat imports in 2007 were forecast to rise 10 percent more. But demand was also rising in many other places, from Tunisia to Venezuela to India. At the same time, drought and competition from other crops limited supply.
 So wheat prices soared, and over the last year, bread prices in Nigeria have jumped about 50 percent. 
 Amid a public outcry, bakers started making smaller loaves, hoping customers who could not afford to pay more would pay about the same to eat less. Sales have dropped for street hawkers selling loaves. With imports shrinking, mills are running at half capacity.
 At Honeywell Flour Mills, one of the largest in Nigeria, executives were glued one recent day to commodity screens. The price of wheat ticked ever upward. ''Even when you see a little downturn, you wait for some few hours or a day, and before you know it, it's gone way up again,'' said the production director, Nino Albert Ozara.
 Despite the crisis, there is little sense of a permanent retreat from wheat in Nigeria. The mills are increasing their capacity, hoping for a day when supply is sufficient to stabilize prices. ''The moment you develop a taste, you are hooked,'' said a confident Muyiwa Talabi, director of an American wheat-marketing office in Lagos.
 Mr. Ojuku, the man who buys fewer loaves, and one of his fellow tailors in Lagos, Mukala Sule, 39, are trying to adjust to the new era.
 ''I must eat bread and tea in the morning. Otherwise, I can't be happy,'' Mr. Sule said as he sat on a bench at a roadside cafe a few weeks ago. For a breakfast that includes a small loaf, he pays about $1 a day, twice what the traditional eba would have cost him.
 To save a few pennies, he decided to skip butter. The bread was the important thing.
 ''Even if the price goes up,'' Mr. Sule said, ''if I have the money, I'll still buy it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: On his North Dakota farm, Dennis Miller has seen wheat prices steadily climb. One downside of that trend is clear in Nigeria, where the cost of bread has risen 50 percent in the last year. (PHOTOGRAPHS: ABOVE, BENEDICTE KURZEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
TOP, DAN KOECK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 1)
TWO SIDES OF THE TREND: In Nigeria, bread has become a staple among the growing middle class. Grain prices driven up by global demand give Dennis Miller hope that he can pass his North Dakota farm to his children someday, free of debt. (PHTOGRAPHS: BELOW, DAN KOECK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ABOVE, BENEDICTE KURZEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 PRECIOUS COMMODITY: Rail cars full of wheat wait near a grain elevator in Milton, N.D. About half of American wheat is exported, for better and better prices, as millions of people in emerging countries clamor for Western-style foods like bread. (LEFT AND ABOVE, PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAN KOECK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 22) GRAPHS: ''A Scarcity Of Wheat'' Droughts and competition from other crops have suppressed wheat production in recent years, even as global demand has risen. Adjusted for inflation, wheat prices are hitting their highest levels in a quarter-century. (Sources: U.S.D.A., National Agricultural Statistics Service)(pg. 22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL PRICES (91%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); AGRICULTURE (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (67%); RIOTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS SERVICE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAGOS, NIGERIA (57%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); NIGERIA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



210 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: Deflated Hope For Nitrogen

BYLINE: By TIM MORAN

 BODY:
EARL STEWART spends about $50,000 a month honoring his lifetime tire-replacement guarantee for many of the cars he sells at his Toyota dealership in Lake Park, Fla. He hoped that using nitrogen to fill those tires would save him money by getting the tires to last longer. It didn't. 
 In an eight-month trial, he equipped several vehicles with nitrogen-filled tires. When his staff measured tire pressures and compared the wear with air-filled tires, they found minimal differences.
 ''It sounds good, and it's an easy sell, and people want to believe it,'' said Mr. Stewart, who decided to stick with ordinary air. ''Even my parts department wanted to believe it.'' 
 Mr. Stewart was hoping that nitrogen would reduce the wear on the tires because the gas takes longer to leak from a tire then ordinary air. Tires low on air wear quicker and need to be replaced sooner than tires filled to the correct pressure.
 Ashok Mathur, business manager for nitrogen tire inflation at Air Products and Chemicals in Allentown, Pa., said that owners could save up to $100 a year by keeping tires properly inflated, even with air, but that it's easier with nitrogen, which takes 30 to 40 percent longer to leak out.
 In its January issue, Consumer Reports magazine published data on a nitrogen experiment. Over a year, tires filled with nitrogen lost less pressure than those with air, losing 2.2 pounds a square inch, compared with 3.5 for air. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: OPTIONAL: Nitrogen leaks from tires less quickly than air. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TIRES (90%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%)

COMPANY: AIR PRODUCTS & CHEMICALS INC (83%)

TICKER: APD (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325120 INDUSTRIAL GAS MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2813 INDUSTRIAL GASES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (52%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



211 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Out of the Raspberry Patch

BYLINE: By ED SCHMULTS; As told to ABBY ELIN. 
As told to Abby Ellin.

 BODY:
WHEN I was very young, my grandmother had a house in New Hampshire, and my sister and I used to pick raspberries. We put up a sign saying ''pick your own raspberries.'' I was 4 and my sister was 6. 
 My parents came home and found all these people in the yard. They were mad, but I think my father was secretly pleased that we had delegated labor and were collecting money and watching people do their thing. 
 My first official job was working at an inn in Little Compton, R.I., that my uncle owned. I cut the huge lawn, and I thought I was the coolest thing going since I could drive a tractor. I was probably 13.
 I went to Yale and majored in economics and political science. After graduating, I worked at Goldman Sachs for three years. They kindly made an offer for me to stay and put me through business school, but working at an investment firm is a full-time job and so is business school. I went to Harvard Business School full time. While I was there I decided I wanted to work for smaller companies that had a brand I could identify with and get that product to the marketplace.
 I graduated with my M.B.A. in 1989. Six months after graduation, I heard a speech by Yvon Chouinard, the founder of the clothing company Patagonia, and he mentioned that they had just hired someone to run their strategic planning.
 I called that person and told her I was going to be in Ventura, Calif., where Patagonia is based. I wasn't really, but I wanted to work there. I bought a plane ticket as soon as I secured the meeting, flew out there and met with her. I got a job offer a few weeks later.
 I was at Patagonia for seven and a half years in a number of different capacities: director of strategic planning, chief information officer, chief operating officer. I ran its Japanese business. I really learned a lot about brands there.
 In 1997, one of my two mentors at Patagonia, Alison May, left to join Esprit in San Francisco. At the same time, an outdoor company called Moonstone Mountain Equipment had filed for bankruptcy. Alison called me with the C.E.O. of Esprit and said ''Hey, we will buy this company if you come run it.'' So I became president of Moonstone and was there for three years.
 Then I joined Freeborders, which sells software for retail apparel and textile companies, and became president for global sales. Three years later I found my way to RedEnvelope, the catalog and Internet gift retailer, with my old mentor Alison.
 I went to F.A.O. Schwarz in September 2005. I'd been a president but not a C.E.O., and I wanted to call the shots. I came on board a year after F.A.O. Schwarz emerged from bankruptcy. The company was relying on its glorious past but was without a clear brand direction. We set up a brand criteria around quality. We put in place a health, safety and environmental angle. We haven't really been affected by the recent toy recalls. Thomas the Tank Engine was recalled last June, but we didn't carry any of the other toys.
 The challenge of the toy business is that you have huge players like Wal-Mart and Toys ''R'' Us. We focus on higher-end, higher-quality toys. We cut a couple of hundred vendors. We're also designing our own product with our own brand.
 Now we own two stores (down from 40), one in New York and one in Las Vegas, and we just opened in Macy's on State Street, in Chicago. Late last year we bought Best & Company, the kids' clothing company. Any time you're in a tough retail environment and your traffic is up 50 percent (in 2007 over 2006) you know you're doing something right.
 This is a happy place to work. How could it not be? You see kids racing around the store. I hope to be here for a long time. 
 ED SCHMULTS
 Chief executive, F.A.O. Schwarz
 AGE 45 
 RECENTLY READ ''Confessor'' by Terry Goodkind, part of the ''Sword of Truth'' fantasy series
 HOBBIES I used to surf a lot, but haven't since I moved to Manhattan.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (76%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); CLOTHING LABELS (71%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (70%); RETAILERS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); TEXTILES (65%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (64%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (60%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (54%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); MOONSTONE MOUNTAIN EQUIPMENT INC (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



212 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Faces From a Neighborhood on the Brink

BYLINE: By CELIA McGEE

 BODY:
WHEREVER the baggage of a life in the theater takes her, the actress April Yvette Thompson carries with her a little shrine, a small altar woven through with the Afro-Latino Santeria traditions that are part of her background's very many strands. Back home in her apartment in Harlem, she has assembled a more permanent one, studded with mementos: her first baby picture, family portraits, childhood jewelry and adolescent keepsakes intended to celebrate the preciousness of her past. Her Vassar diploma doesn't fit, and she keeps it on her desk. 
 Onstage now at New York Theater Workshop, she builds another altar with every performance: her one-woman play ''Liberty City,'' directed and co-written by Jessica Blank. In it Ms. Thompson plays generations of characters primarily based on herself, her family and the other African-Americans and Caribbean immigrants with whom they came in closest contact (and conflict) in the struggling, vibrant and politically charged Miami neighborhood of Liberty City from the late 1960s on. 
 ''There were 20 Kwame Nkrumahs in my nursery school class,'' she says in her opening lines. '' 'Kwame' -- everybody'd turn around.'' 
 Ms. Thompson and Ms. Blank, who are both in their early 30s, met in 2002, when Ms. Thompson was in ''The Exonerated,'' the documentary play about wrongfully convicted death-row prisoners that Ms. Blank created with Erik Jensen, now her husband, and directed by Bob Balaban.
 ''April is chameleonlike,'' said Mr. Balaban, who cast her in the movie version of ''The Exonerated'' as well as in his latest television film, ''Bernard and Doris.'' ''She's like Lily Tomlin or Whoopi Goldberg. She can do radically different people. But she's also a brilliant actress. She doesn't just mimic, she fulfills the complete character. And Jessica, as an actor herself, has an eye for talented people. By now they can communicate almost without speaking.'' 
 This doesn't mean they don't climb down into the emotional trenches when differences arise. If they have something to ''hash out,'' said Ms. Blank, who was seated next to Ms. Thompson on a sofa in a rehearsal room recently, ''we usually hole up in April's apartment with a couple of pints of ice cream and bottles of wine and talk about all our feelings for eight hours. We're very '70s about it.'' 
 But what gave birth to the new play was their discovery of how much they had in common. Though Ms. Blank came of age relatively privileged in New Haven and Washington, and Ms. Thompson in an area where, she said, children were ''designed not to make it,'' they were both products of their parents' 1960s idealism. 
 ''We were both movement babies,'' Ms. Blank said.
 As ''Liberty City'' chronicles, Ms. Thompson's Cuban-and-Bahamian father, largely self-educated, became a political activist and city councilman whose efforts to improve local conditions were crushed in the wake of the McDuffie riots of 1980, when violence erupted after the acquittal of four police officers in the killing of a black insurance executive. His marriage to Ms. Thompson's mother, his staunch ally, didn't survive, either. 
 In the play Ms. Thompson intermixes her parents' changing relationship with the strong presence of her paternal grandmother, her younger brother, a glamorous, reckless aunt, a fatherly transvestite hairdresser and a remarkably insensitive kindergarten teacher. Those characters in turn bring others alive.
 Ms. Blank's father, now a psychoanalyst in private practice, served in the medical corps in Vietnam, then became part of Vietnam Veterans Against the War, as did her mother, a modern dancer and teacher.
 Ms. Thompson's father and several other family members were expected on opening night, but not her mother, who is still the Jehovah's Witness that Ms. Thompson shows her becoming toward the end of the play.
 ''She has never seen me perform,'' said Ms. Thompson, who has had starring roles in Off Broadway productions like ''Medea'' and ''The Antigone Project.'' ''You're not allowed to go to the theater.''
 Ms. Thompson feels she owes her career choice instead to Marian Wright Edelman, the president and founder of the Children's Defense Fund, for which Ms. Thompson went to work after college. Ms. Edelman saw her perform in a theater games workshop and asked her what she planned to do with her future. ''I told her I had just finished applying to law school,'' Ms. Thompson said, ''and she said: 'Why are you doing that? You're an artist.' '' 
 Ms. Thompson got her graduate degree from the theater program at Rutgers University headed by William Esper, with whom Ms. Blank studied independently. 
 ''We share a performance vocabulary,'' Ms. Blank said, ''and we both think that too much political theater gets locked into preaching to the converted. But it doesn't have to. As long as you use the central tool of empathy. That's how you make good theater, and theater for people who may not know about the things you're dealing with.'' 
 At one point as the narrator Ms. Thompson conjures young April and her brother losing their way home when the riots and martial law defeat their mother's attempts to reach them, and, heartsick, she searches for them everywhere. 
 ''Anyone can empathize with a mother in that situation,'' Ms. Blank said. ''Someone just talking about their philosophy or their feelings isn't interesting.''
 Ms. Thompson added, ''What so much of the theater of politics is missing is the artistic part.''
 With that in mind, they said, they focused their mutual sensibilities on shaping the play, which drew on countless transcripts of taped interviews by Ms. Blank of Ms. Thompson. Certain events and aspects of people were fictionalized for economy and emotional impact. On the inflamed streets of her childhood, for instance, April watches a neighborhood girl lose a leg, to black anger and white neglect. 
 ''I didn't actually see it happen,'' Ms. Thompson said. ''But I grew up seeing her all the time, and what it meant for her.''
 Ms. Blank thinks of such moments in ''Liberty City'' as the mood in America changing, she said, ''from hope, and the expectation of good, to fear. But it would be nice if it could help us remember when people believed they could change things based on hope. Both of us are still committed to theater that creates social change. Even though April's father and his friends may have been thwarted, she picked up the torch.''
 Ms. Thompson laughed. Then she didn't. ''Theater was just a new way to be a hippie for me,'' she said. ''Seriously, though -- theater is where you're allowed to be the best of yourself. It's church for me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In ''Liberty City'' April Yvette Thompson, top, portrays the residents of a neighborhood in Miami over decades. Jessica Blank, above, directed and helped write the play. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 KRISTIN HOEBERMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (89%); CHILDREN (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (74%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (64%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%) FLORIDA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



213 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; IDEA LAB; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Watching the Rich Give

BYLINE: By DAVE DENISON. 
Dave Denison has written for The American Prospect, The Boston Globe and The Texas Observer.

 BODY:
For 23 years, Paul Schervish, a sociologist and former Jesuit priest, has asked wealthy people what motivates them to give away money. He has interviewed more than 250 affluent Americans and has attended exclusive gatherings where the well-off discussed their feelings about money and giving. For a scholar whose views were shaped by the study of Marx, as well as Weber, Durkheim and Veblen, he takes an unusually charitable attitude toward the upper crust. He doesn't look at the wealth boom of recent decades and bemoan the excesses. Instead, he foresees more wealthy people finding purpose and happiness through a ''philanthropic vocation.''
 Schervish, who runs the Center on Wealth and Philanthropy at Boston College, is one of the country's leading experts on the philanthropic inclinations of the very wealthy. He made a splash in 1999 with research conducted with his colleague John Havens that predicted $21 trillion would go to charity over the coming 50 years. Charitable donations at all levels increased markedly in the United States in the 1990s; charitable bequests from wealthy estates rose to $16.8 billion in 2000 from $8.7 billion in 1992. 
 When Schervish began his research, he held some of the prevailing stereotypes about America's rich -- that they are comparatively stingy, for example. Social critics for years have cited research showing that people with low incomes tend to give as high a proportion of their earnings as the rich do. Havens and Schervish concluded that the oft-made claim was based on faulty analysis. In a 2006 publication, they broke it down this way: on average, the 98 percent of families that earn less than $300,000 a year contribute roughly 2.3 percent of their income to charity. Families earning more than $300,000 give away about 4.4 percent of their income. Their study, based on data gathered in 2001 by the Federal Reserve, found that those who earned $400,000 to $499,000 a year gave 5.5 percent. (At higher incomes, the statistics are variable and, due to small sample sizes, less reliable.) 
 Still, that hardly shows the rich, as a group, reaching the tithing point. Schervish says one of the most important findings from his center's surveys shows a strong correlation between feelings of economic security and willingness to give. Understanding how people think about financial security has been central to the mission of the center. In 2006, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation awarded the center $600,000 that it is using to conduct a first-of-a-kind survey of the ultrawealthy -- those with a net worth of at least $25 million. Among the questions asked: ''What is the minimum level of net worth you would need to feel extremely secure?'' In one 1998 survey, the mean figure given by respondents for full economic security was $20 million. Schervish notes that individual circumstances color the responses. Someone with $50 million tied up in a business may feel more precarious than a person with a modest lifestyle and $5 million in safe investments.
 Schervish admits that he sees these surveys as more than research tools; they also prompt reflection by respondents. He recounted with satisfaction that a group of wealthy individuals who were testing an early version of the current Gates-financed survey said the questions made them think hard about their philanthropic choices. Schervish says it is possible that the rising tide of wealth and philanthropy could lead to a kind of spiritual awakening among America's very wealthy. As he and Havens put it in a journal article several years ago, ''An era has begun where people are finding themselves with deeper pockets and fuller hearts.'' I asked Schervish why we shouldn't conclude that rich people give more simply because they have more? 
 ''You're begging the question,'' he said. Multimillionaires could just as well invest in new businesses or set up trusts so that most of their wealth would be passed on to heirs. ''But there's another realm that is very attractive,'' he said. ''Philanthropy.'' Philanthropy, he explained, draws people into the kind of direct caring relationships they experience in family life -- and extends that caring outward. ''This is my basic definition of philanthropy -- it's paying attention and responding to the needs of others precisely because that person is in need,'' he said. Anyone can do that, rich or poor. But when the very wealthy do it, according to Schervish, it creates not just ripples but powerful tides. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ABELARDO MORELL
 BONNI BENRUBI GALLERY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (94%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); SOCIOLOGY (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); FAMILY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (76%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



214 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Math Suggests College Frenzy Will Soon Ease

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
High school seniors nationwide are anxiously awaiting the verdicts from the colleges of their choice later this month. But though it may not be of much solace to them, in just a few years the admissions frenzy is likely to ease. It's simply a matter of demographics.
 Projections show that by next year or the year after, the annual number of high school graduates in the United States will peak at about 2.9 million after a 15-year climb. The number is then expected to decline until about 2015. Most universities expect this to translate into fewer applications and less selectivity, with most students probably finding it easier to get into college. 
 ''For the high school graduate, this becomes a buyers' market,'' said Daniel M. Fogel, president of the University of Vermont.
 That won't help Charlie Cotton, a senior at Madison High School in New Jersey. He has the grades and scores to aim for the nation's elite universities, yet in the hyper-competitive world of college admissions, his chances of winning a spot at his top picks -- like Middlebury, Dartmouth and Oberlin -- are highly uncertain. When his sister, Emma, who is in eighth grade, applies to college, she is expected to face a less frantic landscape with fewer rivals. 
 The demographic changes include sharp geographic, social and economic variations. Experts anticipate, for example, a decline in affluent high school graduates, and an increase in poor and working-class ones. In response, colleges and universities are already increasing their recruitment of students in high-growth states and expanding their financial-aid offerings to low-income students with academic potential.
 Still, some admissions deans and independent consultants say the struggle to win entry to the most prestigious universities is likely to continue.
 ''The ones that have the strongest brand identification are still going to be awash in applications, but 99 percent of us are going to see declines,'' said Robert J. Massa, vice president for enrollment at Dickinson College. 
 But other admissions officials have a different view. Lee A. Coffin, dean of undergraduate admissions at Tufts University, thinks top students might well find less competition. ''We could see something resembling the admissions environment of the early 1990s, in which the most talented students might have an easier time,'' he said.
 While many admissions deans expect to look nostalgically on what has become, for them at least, a golden era in college admissions, some say that a letup in the admissions craze might not be so bad.
 ''I actually think it's kind of good,'' said Monica C. Inzer, dean of admission and financial aid at Hamilton College. ''We need a shakeup. I think the anxiety families are feeling right now is not the way we planned it.''
 The extent to which admissions become less selective may depend, many admissions deans say, on whether they can successfully alter their recruiting -- by reaching out to a broader range of students, with a more national and even international approach. 
 ''I think that those institutions that decide to run the model as it's been so successfully run over the last decade and a half will see their admission rates go up,'' said Kurt M. Thiede, vice president for enrollment management at Bucknell. 
 Nationally, the population decline is projected to be relatively gentle, with the number of high school graduates expected to fall in the Northeast and Midwest, while continuing to increase in the South and Southwest.
 The number of white high school graduates will go down nationally, and the number of African-American graduates will remain relatively steady. But the number of Hispanic and Asian-American graduates will increase sharply, according to projections by the Western Interstate Commission for Higher Education, whose demographic estimates are highly regarded by admissions officials. 
 And so admissions officials are scrambling to attract Hispanic and low-income students, who have been underrepresented at the most prestigious private and public universities. Colleges in the Northeast and Midwest have particularly intensified their efforts to strengthen alumni networks and make themselves better known at high schools in fast-growing states like Texas, Arizona, Nevada, Florida and Colorado. Cornell sent an admissions officer to live full-time in Los Angeles.
 ''It's kind of a demographic perfect storm in some ways,'' said Robert S. Clagett, dean of admissions at Middlebury College. ''Because where the increases are going to come are in states where the college-going rate is lower and where those who do go to college primarily stay in the state.''
 Colby College and a number of others in the North have also begun to offer airplane tickets for low-income high school students and their parents from Sun Belt states to visit their campuses. Last summer, Middlebury and Williams flew in 27 college counselors from states where the colleges are not well known. 
 ''It was nice for me to see the campuses and say to our kids, This is what they are like,'' said Sharmon Goodman, director of college counseling at One Voice, a nonprofit group in the Los Angeles area that identifies and prepares low-income students with the academic potential for elite colleges.
 Many colleges anticipate having to dig deeper to attract more low-income students. This is among the prime reasons why many of the most selective institutions have been in a race to significantly expand their financial aid to poor and working-class students.
 When Harvard recently increased financial aid packages, it wanted ''to send a really clear message out there to people who would not ordinarily apply to college, much less apply to a school like this,'' said William R. Fitzsimmons, dean of admissions and financial aid at Harvard College.
 ''Our theory is if we're really going to succeed, and not just Harvard, at increasing the college-going rates of people in the bottom quarter and bottom half of the economic ladder, then you're going to have to be really aggressive in your outreach,'' Mr. Fitzsimmons said.
 The new recruiting strategies take many forms. Bucknell, Cornell, Amherst and the University of Michigan are among eight colleges and universities to receive grants from the Jack Kent Cooke Foundation to create partnerships with community colleges; the goal is for some of the most promising graduates of two-year schools to transfer to the elite universities for their last two years of college. 
 Concern about the coming demographic shifts is also partly behind a surge in recruiting international students. At Colby College, for example, more than 20 percent of the 4,800 applicants this year were from outside the United States. 
 Back in New Jersey, Mr. Cotton, 17, checks the mailbox every day to see which colleges will offer him admission. ''There's a lot of pressure,'' he said. ''Even if you're qualified, you're not always going to get a chance to get into these schools, which is the scary part.''
 Mr. Cotton, who has applied to 10 colleges, said he was pleased to learn that the competitive frenzy is expected to calm down. ''It's good for my sister,'' he said. ''Definitely I'm a little jealous.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kurt M. Thiede, vice president for enrollment management at Bucknell, one of many universities revising recruiting strategies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KALIM A. BHATTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 29) GRAPH: The graph shows that the projected number of graduates will be dropping after the year 2008-9. (Source: Source: Western Interstate Commission for Higher Education)(pg. 29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); BRANDING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



215 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Look Out Below. The Arms Race in Space May Be On.

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 IT doesn't take much imagination to realize how badly war in space could unfold. An enemy -- say, China in a confrontation over Taiwan, or Iran staring down America over the Iranian nuclear program -- could knock out the American satellite system in a barrage of antisatellite weapons, instantly paralyzing American troops, planes and ships around the world.
 Space itself could be polluted for decades to come, rendered unusable.
 The global economic system would probably collapse, along with air travel and communications. Your cellphone wouldn't work. Nor would your A.T.M. and that dashboard navigational gizmo you got for Christmas. And preventing an accidental nuclear exchange could become much more difficult. 
 ''The fallout, if you will, could be tremendous,'' said Daryl G. Kimball, executive director of the Arms Control Association in Washington.
 The consequences of war in space are in fact so cataclysmic that arms control advocates like Mr. Kimball would like simply to prohibit the use of weapons beyond the earth's atmosphere.
 But it may already be too late for that. In the weeks since an American rocket slammed into an out-of-control satellite over the Pacific Ocean, officials and experts have made it clear that the United States, for better or worse, is already committed to having the capacity to wage war in space. And that, it seems likely, will prompt others to keep pace. 
 What makes people want to ban war in space is exactly what keeps the Pentagon's war planners busy preparing for it: The United States has become so dependent on space that it has become the country's Achilles' heel.
 ''Our adversaries understand our dependence upon space-based capabilities,'' Gen. Kevin P. Chilton, commander of the United States Strategic Command, wrote in Congressional testimony on Feb. 27, ''and we must be ready to detect, track, characterize, attribute, predict and respond to any threat to our space infrastructure.''
 Whatever Pentagon assurances there have been to the contrary, the destruction of a satellite more than 130 miles above the Pacific Ocean a week earlier, on Feb. 20, was an extraordinary display of what General Chilton had in mind -- a capacity that the Pentagon under President Bush has tenaciously sought to protect and enlarge. 
 Is war in space inevitable? The idea or such a war has been around since Sputnik, but for most of the cold war it remained safely within the realm of science fiction and the carefully proscribed American-Soviet arms race. 
 That is changing. A dozen countries now can reach space with satellites -- and, therefore, with weapons. China strutted its stuff in January 2007 by shooting down one of its own weather satellites 530 miles above the planet. 
 ''The first era of the space age was one of experimentation and discovery,'' a Congressional commission reported just before President Bush took office in 2001. ''We are now on the threshold of a new era of the space age, devoted to mastering operations in space.''
 One of the authors of that report was Mr. Bush's first defense secretary, Donald H. Rumsfeld, and the policy it recommended became a tenet of American policy: The United States should develop ''new military capabilities for operation to, from, in and through space.''
 Technology, too, has become an enemy of peace in space. Ronald Reagan's Strategic Defense Initiative was considered so fantastical by its critics 25 years ago that it was known as ''Star Wars.'' But the programs Mr. Reagan began were the ancestors of the weaponry that brought down the American satellite.
 The Chinese strike, and now the Pentagon's, have given ammunition to both sides of the debate over war in orbit. 
 Arms control advocates say the bull's-eyes underscore the need to expand the Outer Space Treaty of 1967, which the United States and 90 other countries have ratified. It bans the use of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction in orbit or on the Moon.
 Space, in this view, should remain a place for exploration and research, not humanity's destructive side. The grim potential of the latter was hinted at by the vast field of debris that China's test left, posing a threat to any passing satellite or space ship. (The Pentagon said its own shot, at a lower altitude, would not have the same effect -- the debris would fall to earth and burn up.)
 The risk posed by space junk was the main reason the United States and Soviet Union abandoned antisatellite tests in the 1980's. Michael Krepon, who has written on the militarization of space, said the Chinese test broke an unofficial moratorium that had lasted since then. And he expressed disappointment that the Pentagon's strike had damaged support for a ban -- which the Chinese say they want, in spite of their 2007 test. ''The truth of the matter is it doesn't take too many satellite hits to create a big mess in low earth orbit,'' he said.
 The White House, on the other hand, opposes a treaty proscribing space weaponry; Mr. Bush's press secretary, Dana M. Perino, says it would be unenforceable, noting that even a benign object put in orbit could become a weapon if it rammed another satellite.
 A new American president could reverse that attitude, but he or she would have to go up against the generals and admirals, contractors, lawmakers and others who strongly support the goal of keeping American superiority in space. The reason they cite is that the United States depends more than any other country on space for its national security. It's only a slight exaggeration to say that an M1-A1 tank couldn't drive around the block in Iraq without them. 
 And so, research continues on how to protect American satellites and deny the wartime use of satellites to potential enemies -- including work on lasers and whiz-bang stuff like cylinders of hardened material that could be hurled from space to targets on the ground. ''Rods from God,'' those are called.
 For now, such weapons remain untested and, by all accounts, impractical because the cost of putting a weapon in orbit is huge. ''It is much easier to hold a target at risk from the land or sea than from space,'' said Elliot G. Pulham, who heads the Space Foundation, a nonprofit group in Colorado Springs.
 Democrats in Congress, in particular, have opposed explicit authorization of space weapons programs. But John E. Pike, director of GlobalSecurity.org, an organization that studies military and space issues, has noted a spike in recent years in secret ''black budget'' spending by the Missile Defense Agency. The idea, he said, is, ''If you desire peace, prepare for war.''
 Mike Moore, author of a new book, ''Twilight War: The Folly of U.S. Space Dominance,'' argued that such logic is misguided. The belief that the United States can or should dominate space, he said, only prods others to respond.
 ''Why trigger an arms race?'' he asked. ''The United States has the most satellites up there, and we have the most to lose.'' Nevertheless, he acknowledges, ''These kinds of thing have a momentum of their own.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ERIK T. JOHNSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ARMS RACE (90%); SPACE WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (89%); COLD WAR (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (72%); WEATHER (72%); TESTIMONY (71%); ARMED FORCES (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PACIFIC OCEAN (90%); EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); TAIWAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



216 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ORCHARD PARK JOURNAL; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Buffalo Area Wonders: Could It Lose the Bills?

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Buffalo has absorbed its share of civic body blows over the years, from the shuttering of steel plants to the exodus from its neighborhoods. So last month, when the hometown Bills confirmed plans to play eight games in Toronto over the next five football seasons, fans like Paul Isaac naturally feared it was a prelude to the team's eventual departure for Canada.
 ''It's the beginning of the end, and it's a sin because we paid our tax dollars to help make this the most exciting place to see a game,'' said Mr. Isaac, who says he attends about half the team's home games each year. ''It would be a devastating blow to this town.'' 
 The start of the football season is months away, but the Bills' decision -- seconded by team owners in the National Football League -- is a hot topic in the city's bars and boardrooms. The debate cuts to the heart of Buffalo's hopes and qualms about its future as a shrinking postindustrial city struggling to turn itself around.
 It also comes just five years after Buffalo almost lost its other professional sports franchise, the Sabres of the National Hockey League, which had declared bankruptcy. The owners of the team at the time, the Rigas family, also owned Adelphia Communications, which also declared bankruptcy after a financial scandal. Tom Golisano, a billionaire from western New York, ultimately stepped in to revive the team.
 The Sabres, though, are not the Bills. The team has been a rallying point for the city and western New York since it played its first game in the old American Football League in 1960. Some fans compare the anticipation on game days to opening presents on Christmas morning. Tailgate parties start on Fridays at the stadium in this suburb 11 miles south of the city. Former players, especially those who still live in the area, are often referred to like cousins or pals from the factory.
 The affection has made it difficult for die-hard fans, and businesses that rely heavily on them, to resist feeling jilted. Danny DeMarco, the owner of the Big Tree Inn near the stadium, said business picks up four days before home games as camera operators, security guards and other workers show up. He also caters tent parties for up to 100 behind his bar and makes more money selling parking spots.
 ''Everyone thinks it's one game, but it's a lot more than that,'' said Mr. DeMarco, standing next to a wall of jerseys and signed photographs of past stars like Jim Kelly, Thurman Thomas and Andre Reed. ''Add it all up, and it's going to have quite an impact.''
 Other business people, however, agree with the team that if the Bills are to grow in one of the smallest markets in the league, they need to look elsewhere for more fans and corporate sponsors. The team moved its training camp near Rochester in 2000 to win fans farther east.
 Toronto is a natural place to play, the team says, because it is Canada's largest and wealthiest city, and just 100 miles to the north. 
 ''This is nothing more than a way to broaden our footprint and keep the team viable in western New York,'' said Russ Brandon, the chief operating officer of the Bills.
 The two cities have a long kinship. Hockey fans regularly shuttle back and forth for games, and as many as 15,000 Canadians attend Bills home games. The Bills actively promote the team in Ontario, and even put on a Canada Game Day, for which fans are bused down.
 ''Toronto is like the New York City of Canada,'' said Larry Norton, who for 20 years has broadcast on WGRF-FM from the stadium parking lot before home games. ''We have a lot of people in southern Ontario who call us and say the Bills are their home team.''
 Of course, Toronto already has a Canadian Football League team, the Argonauts, as well as professional baseball, basketball and hockey teams, but some conspiracy-minded fans suspect that Toronto would like to add an American football team as well. They point to Baltimore, Cleveland and other cities where teams with rabid supporters moved. While the Bills' owner, Ralph Wilson, 89, has promised to keep the team in Buffalo, he has hinted that his daughters are not interested in taking over the franchise once he is gone.
 Skeptics also note that the team's deal to play in Toronto expires in 2012, the same year its stadium lease in Buffalo runs out.
 Jealousy might be playing a role, too. Thanks to their strong dollar, Canadians have been pouring over the border to shop in Buffalo, and crowd the city's hotels and bars. And while Buffalo struggles to hold onto jobs, Toronto has emerged as a powerful financial center with enough wealthy residents to potentially outbid any local buyers, should the team be put up for sale.
 Underscoring the disparity, tickets for the games at the Rogers Center in Toronto will cost up to $300, though the team said some seats will be available for $75. By contrast, the Bills have the most inexpensive tickets in the league, at $51.24 on average here at Ralph Wilson Stadium. 
 ''Unfortunately, because of the economic situation in Buffalo,'' said Roy Bakos, a manager at Pearl Street Grill and Brewery, a bar downtown that accepts Canadian dollars, many residents feel as if ''the sky is falling.'' 
 In a city where fans are so ardent they wear T-shirts that read, ''Buffalo is a beer-drinking town with a football problem,'' it is not surprising that politicians have felt compelled to weigh in.
 In mid-February, Senator Charles E. Schumer met with Roger Goodell, the N.F.L. commissioner (who grew up in western New York), to win assurances that the team was not going to move. A week later, Mayor Byron W. Brown of Buffalo and the Erie County executive, Chris Collins, sent Mr. Goodell a letter noting that the Bills generate about $141 million in economic activity, and that state funds were used to help renovate the stadium in the late 1990s.
 Still, all three politicians support the team's foray into Canada, something hard-core fans remain skeptical about.
 ''Football is a business, and you've got to go where the money is,'' said Thomas Angelo, 56, a regular at the Big Tree Inn and a former assistant equipment manager for the team. ''There's no loyalty anymore.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At the Big Tree Inn, a hot topic has been the Bills' deal to play games in Canada. Thomas Angelo said sports are a business. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG BENZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS BUSINESS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); CHRISTMAS (62%); SCANDALS (50%)

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BUFFALO BILLS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%); DALLAS STARS (55%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (55%); EDMONTON OILERS (55%)

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



217 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; FREAKONOMICS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Bottom-Line Philanthropy

BYLINE: By STEPHEN J. DUBNER and STEVEN D. LEVITT. 
Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt are the authors of the book ''Freakonomics.'' More information on the research behind this column is online at www.freakonomics.com.

 BODY:
The 'Soccer Boy' Effect
 Brian Mullaney's epiphany occurred back in 1994 in Vietnam. He was traveling as a board member with Operation Smile, a charity that performed cleft-repair surgery on poor children around the world. Because the organization flew in doctors and surgical equipment from the United States, its time and capacity in a given locale were limited. ''On every mission, 500 or 600 children would show up begging for treatment,'' Mullaney recalls, ''but we could only help 150.'' In a small Vietnamese village near the Chinese border, there was one kid who played soccer every day with the volunteers; they took to calling him Soccer Boy. When the mission was over and Mullaney and the others drove away, he saw Soccer Boy chasing after the group's bus, his cleft lip still unrepaired. ''We were in shock -- how could he not have been helped?'' That's when Mullaney realized that charities like Operation Smile were badly in need of a new business model -- or any business model at all, really -- and he set out to invent one. 
 Rafe Furst's epiphany came just last year while attending a closed-door conference in Grand Rapids, Mich., that featured some of the most prominent cancer researchers in the United States. Furst might not seem the likeliest person to be in such a room. He is best known as a professional gambler, a proud member of a high-profile, high-I.Q. poker gang known as the Tiltboys. He has an undergraduate degree in symbolic systems and a graduate degree in computer science, both from Stanford, and in 1999 he banked a small fortune by selling an online promotions company he helped found. (Disclosure: Furst is a friend of ours, and we are both investors in a more recent start-up of his, its mission unrelated to this article.)
 Furst and some other Tiltboys began donating a portion of their poker earnings to the Prevent Cancer Foundation, and in 2004 he was invited to join its board. He viewed the Grand Rapids conference as a way to learn more about cancer and how it was being fought. Instead, he says: ''I fell down a rabbit hole. I saw that there were some messed-up things going on here. The system is just not designed to solve this problem.'' The cancer-research community, he felt, was made up of countless well-meaning individuals who, collectively, turned into a hive of competing interests and misaligned incentives, where financing dollars and even information were hoarded. 
 So Furst, too, conceived a new charitable business model. His idea is little more than a commingling of two long-proven incentives: prizes and profits. Inspired by the X Prize Foundation's sponsorship of innovations in space travel and other realms, Furst wants to establish a giant prize, as much as $10 billion, that would go to the party or parties that achieve a ''cure'' for cancer, as defined by the prize committee.
 And where will that $10 billion come from? ''I don't want Bill Gates,'' Furst says. ''I want your average millionaire down the block who wants to make a difference.'' Furst says he believes the landscape is thick with would-be philanthropists, especially younger people, who would like nonprofits to operate a bit more like the for-profit worlds they inhabit. This means establishing realistic and powerful incentives.
 Cancer researchers would certainly be incentivized by the $10 billion prize. But how to incentivize the donors? Furst would offer an annuity, similar to the annuities paid out by charitable-remainder trusts. A donor to such a trust gives money or property to a charity and receives an annuity based on its value until his or her death. ''That's a cool idea,'' Furst says. ''But I thought, How can we make it so you don't have to die?''
 An early contributor to what might be called the Cure Cancer Annuity Fund would receive as much as a 15 percent return on her money until the $10 billion was fully funded; after that, she would receive a 5 percent return. (This would be dependent, of course, on the fund's ability to generate such returns; Furst is confident that some hedge-fund friends of his could make that happen.) The annuity would stop only when the goal -- a cure for cancer -- was reached and the principal was paid out to the winners. Furst's greatest insight may be the recognition that, for many people, the act of altruism is not as pure as it might seem. In this case, whatever pain a donor may feel from giving is countered by the pleasure of also getting something back. 
 For now, Furst's idea is still in the planning stage. Brian Mullaney's idea, meanwhile, has already borne much fruit. The incident in Vietnam with Soccer Boy made him realize, he says, that cleft deformities ''are not a medical problem; they're an economic problem.'' As a philanthropist, offering surgery to only a fraction of the children who needed it made him heartsick. As a businessman -- at the time, he ran an advertising agency -- it made him cringe. ''What store turns away 80 percent of its customers?''
 Mullaney helped conceive a plan. Instead of using Operation Smile's hard-raised millions to fly doctors and equipment around the world for limited engagements, what if the money were used instead to train and equip local doctors to perform cleft surgery year-round? Mullaney figured that the cost per surgery would drop by at least 75 percent, and he saw no reason not to try it. Operation Smile's leadership saw things differently, so Mullaney and a few others left the organization and started a rival group, Smile Train. Along the way, Mullaney got out of the advertising business and became the new organization's president.
 Smile Train works as a charity because it is run like a business. Fixing a child's cleft lip or palate is a relatively cheap procedure with outsize payoffs: cleft children in many countries are ostracized and have a hard time going to school, getting jobs and marrying, and the surgery reverses those disadvantages. Indeed, when pitching a reluctant government, Mullaney refers to cleft children as ''nonperforming assets'' who can soon be returned to the economic mainstream. He fights bad incentives with better ones: when Smile Train learned that midwives in Chennai, India, were being paid off to smother baby girls born with cleft deformities, Mullaney started offering midwives as much as $10 for each girl they instead took to a hospital for surgery.
 Smile Train has also harnessed technology to create efficiencies in every aspect of its business, from fund-raising to charting patients' outcomes. It developed surgery-training software that helps educate doctors around the world. There are high-tech quality-control measures: using digital imaging, a Texas cleft expert grades a random sample of operations performed by Smile Train doctors around the world, in order to know which surgeons in, say, Uganda or China need more training. These are the sort of innovations that likely make Smile Train one of most productive charities, dollar for deed, in the world. Over the last eight years, Smile Train has performed more than 280,000 cleft surgeries in 74 of the world's poorest countries, raising some $84 million last year while employing a worldwide staff of just 30 people. 
 Mullaney estimates that Smile Train is close to reaching a historic break-even point: it will perform more operations each year than the number of children born each year in developing countries with cleft deformities. This means Smile Train may be well on its way to putting itself out of business. ''That,'' Mullaney says, ''would be a dream.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAUL SAHRE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); SOCCER (90%); ONCOLOGY (89%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (89%); CANCER (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (77%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BOARD CHANGES (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (69%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); VIET NAM (88%); CHINA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



218 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; JERSEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: For 2 Black Detectives, The Beat Is Recruiting

BYLINE: By KEVIN COYNE. 
E-mail: jersey@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Jersey City 

 BODY:
 DETECTIVE Rhudy Snelling stood at the head of the same wainscoted high school auditorium he once sat in as a student, wearing the police uniform he hoped a few of the seniors in his audience might soon wear, too. First, though, he had to convince them that it wouldn't cost their souls.
 ''This is your community,'' he said, again making the recruitment pitch he has lately been making to young black men and women all over the city. ''And you need to represent your community.'' 
 As befits a city that looks out into the world over the shoulder of the Statue of Liberty, Jersey City is encyclopedically diverse: almost equal numbers of whites, blacks and Hispanics, and a smaller assortment of residents whose roots are in Asia and the Middle East. Its storefronts, churches and many other institutions have evolved to reflect these demographic shifts. Its police department has been slower to change: 70 percent white, and only 7 percent black. 
 But how do you change the colors of a police department -- shaped, as it is, by both the protocols of the civil service system and the traditions of families that have served in it for generations -- to better reflect the colors of its city? And how do you convince the 59 mostly black students assembled at Snyder High School this morning that the police are an ally worth joining, not an enemy to resist?
 ''Some kids don't want to become police officers because police officers make us feel different, like we don't want to do it because of the disrespect we do have from some cops,'' one girl in the audience told Detective Snelling and the other officials who were trying to convince her otherwise.
 ''That's right,'' said another, and a murmur of assent rippled through the students.
 For the last several weeks, Detective Snelling, who is 39 and has been in the department since 1989, and another veteran black detective, Charles Mainor, 41, have been crisscrossing the city like evangelists on what Mayor Jerramiah Healey has called an ''unprecedented'' recruiting mission. The state law enforcement exam, which comes around only once every three years or so, will be offered in June, and the application deadline is March 31. The goal is to get 500 black applicants.
 ''We need you,'' Detective Mainor told them. ''We truly need you.''
 It hasn't been an easy sell. The number of Hispanics in the department has been growing -- to 182 out of a total of 897, or about 20 percent -- but the number of blacks has declined, to just 65.
 ''That's insane,'' Viola S. Richardson -- a former police officer who now represents Ward F, where the high school is located, on the city council -- told the students, her voice rising. She spent 21 years in the department, and when she joined, in 1981, she was one of 85 black officers, which was just about the peak. ''We're going backwards. You are the future, so if you don't want to be bothered I don't know what's going to happen.''
 Detectives Snelling and Mainor have been speaking at black churches on Sunday mornings, visiting supermarkets and shopping centers with a video truck that broadcasts a recruitment message, and buttonholing young black men and women on the streets. They hand out applications and also offer to come pick them up, to make sure they don't languish unmailed. 
 They visit schools like this, sometimes with a full-court press of other prominent black leaders, like those who accompanied them this morning: Ms. Richardson; the police director, Samuel Jefferson; the department chaplain, Rev. Joseph Jones; the chairman of the Hudson County Board of Freeholders, Jeffrey Dublin; and State Senator Sandra A. Bolden Cunningham, the widow of Glenn D. Cunningham, who retired from the police department as a captain before being elected the city's first black mayor in 2001.
 ''How much do you make?'' one boy asked, which gave Detective Mainor a chance to lay out the enticements of the kind of secure job, and attendant middle-class lifestyle, that has become so elusive in an uncertain economy: $34,000 to start, rising in steps to $85,000; retirement after 25 years with a full pension; a lifetime of health benefits; tuition reimbursement for college -- an altogether better deal than military recruiters can offer, and without the prospect of Iraq.
 The students had other questions, too: Is there a height requirement? A weight limit? What kind of shape do you need to be in? Do you have to cut your hair? And then one that revealed a persistent divide: Doesn't it make you a snitch?
 ''You make a difference from the inside out,'' said Detective Snelling, who lives across the street from Snyder, and whose son is a junior at the school. ''They might think you're a snitch, but you changed the community, and you made it safer for everybody. Inside out, see the point?''
 By the end of the morning, the two detectives had handed out 35 applications, and collected the names of 20 other students who weren't yet old enough for this test, but who they hope might take it the next time it comes around. As the test nears, the department plans to hold preparation sessions, hoping to improve scores and push applicants up the hiring list.
 ''Is this right?'' Shakeria Ellis, 17, asked Detective Snelling, showing him the application she had already filled out. Carlos Ramos, 18, had finished his, too, and so had Angelica Paulino, 17, who had started the morning thinking she wanted to be a nurse, but had been convinced otherwise. 
 Detectives Snelling and Mainor had 75 applications completed and filed now, 75 more chances to add black officers to the department, but hundreds more to go, and a deadline looming. Leaving the auditorium, they passed the old bronze bust of the school's namesake -- Henry Snyder, a long-ago superintendent -- that has stood watchful and unblinking through decades of change, as they moved once again from the inside out.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: INSIDE PITCH: Charles Mainor, a Jersey City police detective, speaking with Snyder High School students. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM CUMMINGS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. NJ2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (71%); ASIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



219 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1717 words

HEADLINE: Responding To a Less Heated Market

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
NEW YORK CITY real estate has become a shadow of its frenzied former self in recent months, as buyers and sellers take a more deliberate approach to reaching deals. 
 Some sellers have pulled their apartments off the market for now, in the hopes that they will have better luck in the traditionally more robust spring season, which typically begins in April. Others have pulled out altogether, thinking it would be better to wait for a year or more to get the price they want. Sellers who really need to sell now are finding that they have to work a lot harder to attract buyers.
 Many sellers, it seems, are discovering that they have to spend some money to spruce up their apartments before they can sell them. In fact, the decision on when to sell is often based on how much work needs to be done. Some sellers are tackling long-term plans, like carving an extra bedroom out of existing space, while others are making quick fixes, like replacing light fixtures and switch plates. 
 In the end, overall prices are stable or even rising, and the properties that are selling are priced just right or have sellers who are willing to negotiate. 
 ''There's definitely always that sense of fear that we may not sell it or that we may have to drop the price,'' said Christopher Lauretani, who, with his wife, Maria, is trying to sell their two-bedroom on the Upper West Side.
 The couple want to sell because they are sharing a bedroom with their 10-month-old daughter, Gabriella, and they want to be settled in the suburbs by the time their 3-year-old son, C. J., starts kindergarten. 
 But they are approaching the process very differently from when they bought their apartment, at 2166 Broadway, at 76th Street, in 2004. As buyers in a boom market, they didn't worry that the kitchen needed renovations, and they paid more than the asking price just days after the place went on the market. 
 ''It was a frenzy when we bought it three and a half years ago,'' Mr. Lauretani said.
 This time, as the sellers, they're giving themselves 18 months to find a buyer. They had already meticulously renovated the space, but they repainted anyway. They believe the apartment, with two bedrooms and two baths and a large terrace, is priced competitively at $1.2 million. 
 But after more than a month on the market and no offers, their broker, Elaine Clayman of Brown Harris Stevens, advised them that an ''active but not frenetic'' market requires patience. They're still adjusting to these new conditions.
 Brokers and researchers say the current low inventory in New York City could help the city withstand the problems that have plagued much of the rest of the country, where inventory is high. 
 In January, Manhattan had just 5,641 apartments for sale, compared with 7,640 at the height of the market in the second quarter of 2006, according to data tracked by the Manhattan appraisal company Miller Samuel Inc. 
 At the same time, the inventory of for-sale apartments is soaring nationally. There were 4.19 million homes for sale in the United States in January 2008 compared with 3.54 million in January 2007, according to the National Association of Realtors.
 Diane M. Ramirez, the president of Halstead Property, said that these conditions are making New York City a healthier market. Sellers are working harder to get buyers, and buyers aren't distracted by too many choices. Both sides appear willing to make deals. 
 ''The inventory is part of the reason that's keeping the market so strong,'' Ms. Ramirez said. ''There's so little choice. Excess inventory is always going to drag your prices down.'' 
 Sellers who do their homework are finding that their efforts can pay off. 
 Carolyn Walkin and her husband, Jim, wanted to move to the Long Island suburbs to find better schools for their daughters, Ava, 4, and Veronica, 2. But they were so worried about a potential recession that they did extensive research to ensure they could sell their three-family brownstone on Henry Street in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn, for the price they wanted. 
 Ms. Walkin spent about five months and had conversations with at least seven brokers before choosing Terry Naini of Prudential Douglas Elliman. Before that, she had also researched auction houses and considered selling the brownstone without a broker. 
 Even though they finished an extensive renovation two years ago, they added details like art on the walls to attract sellers. Within one hour of their first open house, they received an offer for their asking price of $2.5 million. But Ms. Walkin didn't relax until the paperwork was signed.
 ''I wasn't confident that I was going to get the price I wanted to ask,'' she said. ''I believe we timed it well.''
 Some sellers are looking for ways to get their price, even if it means waiting a year. 
 In 2005, Justin and Lucia Muntean bought a two-bedroom condominium at 227 East 111th Street for $650,000. Back then, they expected to live in their apartment, in East Harlem, for two years and sell it for $850,000 to $925,000, Mr. Muntean said. When they put it on the market in August, however, they asked $799,000.
 By November, they found that the apartment was being overlooked by buyers more interested in neighboring condos that had lower common charges. At the time, their common charge was $936 a month, excluding taxes, while nearby buildings promoted common charges of about $500. MaryJo Griner, a broker at Barak Realty, advised them that they were more likely to get about $750,000.
 The Munteans pulled the apartment off the market and decided to take a different approach. They noticed that many nearby buildings didn't have three-bedrooms. So they are creating another bedroom in the 1,300-square-foot space and planning to put the apartment back on the market in the spring of 2009. By then, they also hope that common charges in nearby buildings, which all have long lists of amenities, will have risen to pay for those perks. 
 Ms. Griner also predicts that by then the neighborhood will have more stores and more residents who have moved into new buildings in the neighborhood. 
 ''Buyers are concerned about buying in areas that aren't completely established because they're worried the Starbucks won't be coming,'' Ms. Griner said. ''In another year, it will all be straightened out.''
 Not everyone can afford to wait a year. Jeff Moreau, a chef for private clients, wants to sell his one-bedroom at 870 West 181st Street, because he's having trouble paying his escalating maintenance fees.
 He thought that his selling experience would be similar to his experience as a buyer in 2006. He had bought the apartment during a Memorial Day weekend sale that required him to make an offer the same day. He had paid $244,000, even though the apartment needed painting and plastering around the heating units. 
 Last November, he put the unit up for sale for $299,000 and ignored suggestions from his broker, Gus Perry of Stein-Perry Real Estate Inc., to make the place more attractive. He expected to get his price because one prospective buyer asked to see the apartment twice. Then interest died. 
 Mr. Moreau took the apartment off the market in January.
 ''I was absolutely convinced someone would snap it up,'' he said. 
 Now he isn't so sure. 
 Before he tries to sell the apartment once again this spring, Mr. Moreau is making some changes. He is having the entire apartment painted. He is also considering getting the bathroom tiles and the aged bathtub reglazed. He may replace the kitchen cabinets as well. 
 On a recent Thursday afternoon, he packed up boxes of vases and other knickknacks to reduce the apartment's clutter. He says he understands better now why buyers didn't jump at his apartment: people wait when they aren't sure if it's a good time to buy. As a future buyer, he partly agrees with them.
 ''You think you have time on your side,'' he said.
 Even with centrally located starter apartments, sellers like Jordan Cooper aren't taking any chances. Mr. Cooper, an investment banker, is doing everything he can think of to make sure that he doesn't have trouble selling his studio at 140 East 28th Street. 
 Although he isn't planning to move in with his girlfriend, Emily Shaw, until September, when the lease on the apartment she shares expires, Mr. Cooper put his studio on the market in January to give himself extra time to sell. He also made sure no small details would drive away sellers. In December, he had the walls painted, installed a more attractive light fixture in his kitchen, replaced the dirty white light switch plates and added a dimmer to a bathroom switch. 
 He listed his apartment at $475,000. He received two bids in two weeks, and he's entertaining one offer close to the asking price, according to his broker, Frank Torre of the Corcoran Group. Mr. Cooper is glad he started the process early, even if it means he may have to rent for a few months.
 Mr. Cooper said that he would have loved to ''put the apartment on the market in June and still live as a bachelor,'' he said. ''I didn't want to leave it to be a question mark.''
 Some sellers aren't taking any chances that Manhattan real estate prices could drop. 
 Natalia Stadnicka, who runs a construction site safety consulting company, bought a studio at 350 East 62nd Street in 2002. She moved to Queens in 2003 because she needed more space for her two dogs, Porter and Sybille. She held onto the Manhattan apartment and rented it out. 
 But in December, her renter moved out without notice, and Ms. Stadnicka decided she no longer wanted to handle the responsibilities of being a landlord in an uncertain real estate market.
 She listed her apartment with Jill Jordan, an agent at Halstead Property, in January, and has incrementally cut the price four times, to $480,000 from $515,000. She said that if she didn't find a buyer willing to pay nearly the asking price by mid-March, she was prepared to rent it again. 
 But her fears were unfounded. By the last week in February, she had accepted an offer just below her asking price. 
 Even so, she said, she was surprised she didn't get her original asking price. 
 ''I'm sure I wouldn't have the problems I'm having now if I sold it two years ago,'' Ms. Stadnicka said. ''People are a lot more careful with their money.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE PAYOFF: Jim and Carolyn Walkin sold their Brooklyn brownstone. (pg. RE10)
FIXING UP: Jeff Moreau is making some cosmetic changes to his one-bedroom at 870 West 181st Street before putting it back on the market this spring. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. RE10)
PRICE CUTTING: Natalia Stadnicka cut the asking price on her studio apartment at 350 East 62nd Street, right, four times after its listing in January. She recently accepted an offer that was just below her asking price. (pg. RE10)
EARLY LISTING: Jordan Cooper put his studio apartment at 140 East 28th Street, right, on the market in January, even though he isn't planning on moving into a new place with his girlfriend, Emily Shaw, until September. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. RE10)
 PATIENT SELLERS: Christopher and Maria Lauretani, with their son, C. J., and daughter, Gabriella, think it will take months to sell their two-bedroom at 2166 Broadway. They bought it in 2004, days after it was listed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. RE1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (77%)

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



220 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; THE MONEY ISSUE; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 4107 words

HEADLINE: For Good, Measure

BYLINE: By JON GERTNER. 
Jon Gertner is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
Philanthropy's largest problem these days probably isn't a lack of big gifts. Over the past few years, new records have been set in the number of individual donations of $100 million or more, and talking with those in the philanthropic community who advise potential donors reveals a sense of widespread anticipation that many billions of dollars, earned during the recent boom in the hedge-fund and private-equity markets, will soon pour into the social sector. At a moment of widespread economic distress, philanthropy is a growth industry, its golden age, at least in terms of dollars spent, almost certainly yet to come. Last year, America's top giver, according to The Chronicle of Philanthropy's rankings, was William Barron Hilton of the Hilton hotel chain, who pledged $1.2 billion. The financier George Soros was No. 4 ($475 million), Mayor Michael Bloomberg of New York was No. 7 ($205 million) and Pierre Omidyar, the founder of eBay, and his wife, Pam, finished at No. 21 ($98 million). 
 The question that troubles many of the newest philanthropists, though, is whether their bequests will have a notable impact. Much of their money either goes into or comes out of private foundations, those largely opaque institutions with huge endowments that, in the jargon-rich environment of philanthropy, differ from charities like the Red Cross in their tendency to engage in long-term ''strategic grant-making.'' Such foundations do not exist to give emergency aid during crises arising from war or natural disaster; instead, their purpose is to attack social and scientific problems at the root, a process that sometimes requires substantial allocations of grant money over 5, 10 or even 20 years. That's a long time to wait before you know whether your money is doing any good. As Judith Rodin, the head of the Rockefeller Foundation since 2005, puts it: ''Critics have talked about the field of philanthropy and said: 'Has it really made a difference. And how would you know?' '' To Rodin, these are perfectly legitimate questions, even when they're posed indiscreetly by business titans who only recently entered the genteel world of charity. ''If we really want to do work that makes a difference, work that has some effect, then we have to know whether it is working,'' she told me recently. ''And if you really do it well, you don't only want to know what works; you want to know how it works.''
 It's not a simple task. As far back as the late 19th century, John D. Rockefeller anguished over where his charitable donations might make the biggest difference. In recent years, one guiding idea behind strategic grants, whether from old-money institutions like the Rockefeller Foundation or new-money outfits like the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, is that they fill gaps in the modern economy opened up by the neglect or failures of the marketplace. ''They're the only unrestricted pool of funds to finance innovation in the social sector and to facilitate major social change,'' says Joel Fleishman, a professor at Duke who recently wrote a book on the role of private foundations in American life. Fleishman explains that foundations can take risks that private companies might shun and can also finance programs that governments might be unable (or unwilling) to support. Foundations can thus experiment with cures for poverty or disease that are largely unproven, with the hope that evidence of success will entice private enterprises, politicians or other foundations to follow suit.
 Of course, experiments can fail, too. When Warren Buffett announced in 2006 that he would donate his billions to the Gates Foundation, the news of his gift eclipsed his dark observation at the same time that philanthropies are ''tackling problems that have resisted great intellect and lots of money.'' But that resistance doesn't have to be permanent. Why shouldn't the world's smartest capitalists be able to figure out more effective ways to give out money now? And why shouldn't they want to make sure their philanthropy has significant social impact? If they can measure impact, couldn't they get past the resistance that Buffett highlighted and finally separate what works from what doesn't?
 One paradox of social investment, whether by governments or private foundations, is that spending more doesn't necessarily produce a greater impact. This is the main reason that over the past few years a number of foundations have become increasingly interested in -- you might even say obsessed with -- measuring the efficiency and effectiveness of their work. Basically their attitude is, If you really want to change the world, first you need to start measuring how (and how much) you're changing it -- because only a clear understanding of your results will enable you to expand the programs that work and jettison the ones that don't.
 Rockefeller's Judith Rodin, who spent 10 years as the president of the University of Pennsylvania, told me she believes that in this respect philanthropies are ''less mature'' than universities, which for decades have tracked the performance of their endowments, the academic qualifications of their incoming students and the achievements of their faculty. Gene Tempel, who runs the Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University, says that universities have become more and more willing to go beyond those basic measures in a quest for improvement. Many universities would originally only measure ''inputs'' -- that is, the grades and tests scores of incoming students. ''No one was actually focused on how many students stayed or how they learned,'' Tempel says. Eventually, schools began measuring ''outcomes'' to calculate the number of graduates going on to obtain high-paying jobs or higher degrees. ''But the final question is,'' Tempel says, ''What impact is this student having on society -- how many of our alumni are doing what? For instance, how many of them patented inventions to treat diseases?'' This kind of data can be incredibly important to a school. At the same time, it is also the most difficult to interpret. Can a university actually take credit for a graduate's achievements later in life? If so, how much? And if a school solves the credit equation, how does it reproduce that success with its current students?
 Within the philanthropy community, there seems to be some agreement that the push for measurements, or ''metrics,'' as they are more often called, started in earnest during the past decade when a few foundations began, like universities, trying to evaluate the impact of their spending. Metrics were not an entirely new idea. For many years, the wealthiest philanthropies, like the Ford Foundation and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, have used controlled trials, similar to what pharmaceutical companies do in comparing new drugs and placebos, to test the effectiveness of some of the social or scientific programs they financed. By tracking participants over many years in various programs -- in early childhood education, for instance -- foundations would come to understand whether a program was worth expanding on a larger scale.
 Randomized trials are expensive and time consuming, however. And in their stead foundations have more recently turned to other types of evaluation. In one recent survey by the Urban Institute and Grantmakers for Effective Organizations, a nonprofit that advises foundations, 43 percent of all staffed foundations in the U.S. said they formally evaluate the work financed by their grants to nonprofit organizations. According to Kathleen Enright, G.E.O.'s executive director, there is an enormous range in how foundations measure the impact of their grants. Often, she points out, organizations rely on something called ''logic models'' to add analytical rigor. These begin with a hypothetical ''theory of change'' and are essentially formulas that explain how financing can solve a social problem. For example, a nonprofit seeking funds from a foundation might theorize that a summer tutoring program will improve a school's standardized test results. The application might propose a measurable goal, too, like a percentage increase in scores. For some foundations, models and measurable goals help them choose among the swarm of nonprofits seeking money for social programs.
 But social philanthropy can get immensely complicated. While setting goals and performing evaluations for a modest grant, like one given to a small after-school program, can be relatively simple, huge grants that finance experimental programs for intractable problems -- poverty, say -- are more like a moonshot. How do you figure out what the goals should be? And then how do you measure the process once it is under way? As Fay Twersky, the director of impact planning at the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, told me, ''Sometimes we're working on the edge of what is known and what has been tried.'' And yet it's that kind of work -- the kind that might achieve some transcendent impact -- that foundations like hers want to pursue.
 One such ambitious program, to improve agriculture in sub-Saharan Africa, began in recent months. The basic blueprint for the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA) is more than a half-century old. Beginning in the early 1940s, the Rockefeller Foundation embarked on an agricultural project to increase crop yields, including rice and wheat, in Latin America and Asia. The first Green Revolution, as it eventually became known, doubled and even tripled grain production in many third-world countries. Rockefeller didn't finance the work alone; early on it was joined by the U.S. government and the Ford Foundation and later by the World Bank and other foreign aid organizations. Still, Rockefeller is widely viewed as the driving force. The Green Revolution is generally believed to have saved one billion lives over six decades, making it arguably the single-most-effective philanthropic initiative in human history.
 For the past few years, Rockefeller has subsidized a small seed-breeding program in Nairobi, Kenya, to help farmers increase their yields, but the Green Revolution never really made it to Africa, at least not on a broad scale. The challenges there are more daunting, not only for geopolitical reasons but also because the continent's farming economy is especially diverse. Staple crops aren't merely rice and wheat; they include sorghum, cowpea, cassava, maize and a half-dozen others. Moreover, there are wide ranges in altitude and amounts of rainfall, just as disease outbreaks and insect infestations vary regionally. To have a broad impact on crops, then, it isn't enough to improve only maize -- that would be culturally unacceptable in countries that depend on cassava. Even in countries where maize is a staple, more than a single new seed with enhanced drought or disease resistance is needed; variations are required for farms at all different altitudes. Other complicating factors include massive erosion and poor soils, along with agricultural markets (where farmers ought to be able to buy supplies and sell their crops) that barely function.
 It is likely that Rockefeller's work in Africa would have remained modest had some strategists at the Gates Foundation not decided to consider the root causes of African poverty a few years ago. When I spoke with Rajiv Shah, who runs the agricultural-development program there, he remarked that no society has moved a large portion of its population out of poverty without a sustained effort to improve its agriculture. He also said that field research by his foundation in 2005 made it clear that agriculture is the source of both food and income for most of the African population -- and that the continent is the only one where productivity has been flat or declining. It's been rising on all the others, Shah said. And so when the Gates Foundation decided that agriculture was the right ''lever,'' in Shah's words, the foundation opened discussions with Rockefeller about expanding the latter's seed program in Kenya, which has been costing about $20 million a year. So far, Gates has committed a total of $264.5 million and Rockefeller $75 million for the AGRA program's first five years -- and the two groups will probably soon pledge another combined $100 million or $150 million as more details are worked out this year.
 The Green Revolution for Africa has a clear logic model behind it. If AGRA can provide farmers with more resilient seed varieties and if it can then supplement them with strategies to enhance soil fertility, greater and more stable crop yields will result. And if AGRA can do all that where more equitable and efficient agricultural markets prevail, says Gary Toenniessen, who runs the Rockefeller Foundation's agricultural programs, then those increased yields should lead to increased profits for the farmers. In turn, the combination of higher yields and profits will lead to greater food security and economic growth for the farmers and their countries. ''That's our theory of change,'' Toenniessen told me.
 Rockefeller and Gates expect that over the course of 20 years AGRA will move tens of millions of African farmers out of poverty. But coming up with actual numbers -- even a range like ''tens of millions'' -- for the program's impact has been a complex endeavor. Before the Gates Foundation put hundreds of millions of dollars into the program, it had to be persuaded by the numbers in Toenniessen's hypothetical model, like how many new seed varieties could be developed and how many Africans would need to be taught to run the breeding work. The Gates Foundation also had to be assured that the program would undergo constant scrutiny as it was rolled out. As some of the new seed varieties are planted over the next few years, for instance, the crops will be measured in terms of both health and height by agricultural workers who will take specially programmed cellphones into their fields to collect and transmit the data. The farmers will also conduct a number of randomized trials by using a control group of crops to compare the health of new seed varieties with the old varieties. Such measurements may be the only way to make midcourse corrections possible. If a new seed or strategy isn't working, the evaluations allow Rockefeller and Gates to take a new tack before a part of the program fails entirely.
 Laying out a clear strategy to predict, and then measure, the program's impact serves another, less obvious goal too: it clarifies the cost-benefit aspects of the program. When Gary Toenniessen proposed that AGRA train 50 new Ph.D.'s to be crop breeders, for instance, Gates representatives asked the Rockefeller Foundation to estimate both the cost of that training and how many farmers could be moved out of poverty from the increased crop yields produced by 50 new breeders. In Toenniessen's view, that is a difficult estimation because it tries to derive a hard number from an unpredictable chain of events. From the point of view of the Gates Foundation -- where the reigning belief seems to be that even a grant of several hundred million dollars is a small amount set beside the magnitude of suffering in sub-Saharan Africa -- it is nonetheless a necessary calculation because it helps the donor judge whether a grant holds the promise of a sizable impact. In this sense, AGRA resembles an investment more than a charity. With its focus on better seed technology and free markets and measurable financial goals, the project could easily be viewed as an experimental start-up business.
 Judith Rodin has led something close to an overhaul of the Rockefeller Foundation since becoming president of the old-line philanthropy three years ago. (Recently she went so far as to hire a vice president to focus on evaluations.) Indeed, she now talks of her foundation's grants as investments to create sustainable change -- a ''portfolio,'' in her words, in which risk is balanced, dispersed and hedged. AGRA would be among the riskiest of the foundation's current programs, she told me. But she also points out that portfolio theory suggests that the higher the risk, the higher the return.
 It can be baffling, at times, trying to figure out which foundations merely want to measure the impact of the work they do and which hope to use metrics as part of a philosophical reappraisal of their approach to philanthropy. (One foundation president told me, referring to these distinctions, ''I think most of the people in philanthropy don't even understand it yet.'') Several people in the philanthropic community I spoke with grouped foundations into a kind of pyramid. Most foundations (those at the lowest level) conduct occasional evaluations, perhaps collecting anecdotal and some numerical data to measure the results of the programs they underwrite. Those that are more serious about measuring impacts (these might be in the middle tier) have tried to implement formal evaluation methods, perhaps even spending large sums on randomized trials. Some of these foundations, like the Carnegie Corporation, have taken the rare step of sharing some information about their failures with other foundations and with the public.
 At the radical top, however, are a handful of foundations that have begun to approach philanthropy the way a money manager might, considering not only whether a theory of change for a particular program is correct but also whether a grant can result in a good ''return'' on investment. Paul Brest, the president of the Hewlett Foundation, which is experimenting with this approach, addresses this subject in a forthcoming book. ''I think these attempts for philanthropies to think as investors as a metaphor is fairly new,'' Brest told me, ''and so is the decision to use metrics to help you guide those investment decisions.'' Brest traces the impulse back to the late 1990s and to a Bay-Area foundation then known as the Roberts Enterprise Development Fund, which was run by Jed Emerson. Brest says that what Emerson did in the late 1990s, at the behest of the philanthropist George Roberts (the ''R'' in the leveraged buyout firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts), was back small entrepreneurial ventures (for example, cafes or bike-repair shops that employed recovering addicts or the formerly homeless) and then measure -- even monetarily -- the effects. The Roberts fund calculated that a charitable grant to a nonprofit would yield an array of monetary benefits to the newly employed (better incomes and financial stability) as well as social benefits (new tax receipts from new-employee income, lower social service costs). The fund's charitable grant, in other words, produced ongoing ''social returns'' that greatly magnified the amount of the initial investment.
 The Roberts fund's methods turned out to be too complex to replicate on any larger scale. But its ideas appear to have spread as they challenged the common assumption that creating financial value (as a corporation might) and creating social value (as a philanthropy might) are necessarily different pursuits. And the methods suggested that a philanthropy was by no means crass in trying to work out a meticulous cost-benefit analysis and applying the results to the creation of an investment portfolio. Emerson is now a senior strategist for two organizations that are almost certainly on the bleeding edge of using metrics to make more effective grants: the Edna McConnell Clark Foundation in New York and Generation Investment Management in London.
 Aspects of the investor mentality, while still a minority viewpoint in the philanthropic sector, have by now influenced various social-venture funds around the country as well as powerful new institutions like the Gates Foundation. You can see it in the way Gates approached the AGRA investment. Soil improvements in Africa, for instance, will entail a basic cost per farm household of about $40 (for fertilizers and the like). The strategists at the Gates Foundation calculated that $40 for better soil will generate well over $40 in additional income for the farmers; it will also allow farm families to grow more food for themselves and thereby alleviate malnutrition. By the foundation's standards, this is an appealing projection. It clearly indicates that returns should far exceed the costs of the program.
 Other organizations have taken things even further. Four years ago, the Robin Hood foundation, which was started in New York by hedge-fund managers in the late 1980s, began working out a set of sophisticated metrics to explore the cost-benefit ratio, in dollars, of every grant it made to fight poverty. That way it could compare the expected returns of some grants with others -- job training versus school tutoring, for instance. The goal is to ensure that the Robin Hood money is always going to the most effective antipoverty cause. A handful of other foundations, meanwhile, seem to be testing just how porous the divide between private and public investment may be. The Acumen Fund, for instance, a $48 million private-equity fund begun in 2001, invests mostly in private companies and entrepreneurs that serve the world's poorest populations; before spending its dollars, Acumen compares the effectiveness of any potential investment with that of a more traditional charitable option. And Google.org, the philanthropic arm of the Internet search company, has proclaimed that it will invest in both nonprofit and for-profit ventures -- raising the question, What's the difference? -- in order to spark and sustain larger social changes.
 There is some worry that all these efforts may be pushing philanthropy in the wrong direction, toward a point where donors become obsessed with projected impacts, overly taken with data-driven efficiency, too sold on the idea that financial and social investment are roughly equivalent. Gene Tempel at Indiana University wonders if the growing reliance on metrics and cost-benefit analyses will create unrealistic expectations about what is possible in philanthropy. ''The notion of return on investment is something that those in the private sector understand so well,'' Tempel says. ''In the private sector, it's fairly easy to measure the profitability of a business, a stock return and so on. But in most social-sector organizations, it's not so simple.'' Numbers cannot capture everything, Tempel says, and the margins of error can be enormous. And it is conceivable that philanthropy itself might be demeaned by a process that depends less and less on the bond of trust between, say, a foundation and its beneficiary and more and more on an algorithm that calculates the quantitative return on a grant. Joel Fleishman, the Duke professor, points out that there have been spectacular successes in 20th-century philanthropy that did not require sophisticated metrics and portfolio theory. ''I believe that foundations did very good things before they ever started being formally strategic,'' he says.
 At the same time, it is easy to see why some of the newest entrants to the field would look at the political culture of traditional grant-making and ask why they shouldn't blow it up. ''They've been asking some embarrassing questions, like how come education test scores continue to plummet?'' Jed Emerson, the Roberts fund founding director, told me recently. ''They've also been asking, Is a traditional approach to philanthropy effective? In what ways is it? In what ways is it not? And how do you prove it?'' Even some members of the establishment, like Paul Brest, the Hewlett Foundation president, see this as invigorating. Brest worries slightly that a philanthropic community too focused on equating grants with cost-benefit measurement could veer toward projects that are easily measured. Such a tilt could give short shrift to the performing arts. Another possible danger is an inclination to compare the hypothetical ''returns'' of financing a project on climate change, say, with a program to help disaffected youth. ''There are apples and oranges,'' he says, ''and then there are apples and kangaroos.''
 Still, Brest adds, what he likes about some of the boldest metrics initiatives at foundations is that they are starting to push the entire field forward. In that regard, they may be taking up the challenge Warren Buffett observed -- to attack problems that have resisted vast sums and great minds -- when he made his donation to Gates. The foundations that finance social innovation could conceivably use a little innovation themselves. ''If people don't try,'' Brest says, ''then we're not going to find out what the limits are.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: A NEW GREEN REVOLUTION?: The Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa is trying to improve the lives of small farmers -- and all Africans -- by increasing crop yields and creating better access to markets. Since it was announced in 2006, the alliance, which is supported by the Rockefeller Foundation and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, has awarded some $34 million in grants. (Source: Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa) (DRAWING BY LORENZO PETRANTONI)
 PHOTO: Socheata Poeuv 27, Khmer Legacies, New Haven Poeuv was born in a Thai refugee camp to Cambodian parents who fled the Khmer Rouge. She was 22 when her parents revealed that the two women she thought were her older sisters were in fact her mother's sister's daughters, orphaned by Pol Pot's regime. She also discovered that her older brother was her half brother -- a surviving child from her mother's murdered first husband. Her curiosity about her parents' long silence led her to make a film about her personal history, called ''New Year Baby.'' She has now started ''Khmer Legacies,'' a project in which children interview their parents about surviving the Cambodian genocide and which she hopes will result in 10,000 videotaped testimonials. ''You've got to change the silence that surrounds this, and the way that Cambodian parents talk to their children and children talk to their parents. There really is a threat of this culture being completely invisible if people don't step forward to remember and distinguish it.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN OTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (91%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); RANKINGS (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); DISASTER RELIEF (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); HOTEL CHAINS (69%); NATURAL DISASTERS (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (59%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (69%); GEORGE SOROS (53%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAMBODIA (93%); AFRICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



221 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: What Did You Earn in School Today?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Next Question: Can Students Be Paid to Excel?'' (front page, March 5), about a program to reward teachers and students for test performance at P.S. 188 on the Lower East Side of Manhattan:
 I was a student teacher at P.S. 188 and am familiar with the school's focus on state tests. I was shocked that educated professionals would support an initiative to pay students for test scores. 
 As a middle-school English teacher who constantly strives to help students realize that reading and writing are a larger part of life than a short state test, I detest the concept of rewarding their performance with money. Poor students who do basic academic work because it results in cash are merely being coached to perform, and the people really benefiting are school professionals and politicians.
 This initiative sends the message that learning for learning's sake is obsolete. Paying students for test scores reduces the teaching of English to a transaction, one in which a teacher sells students methods of fooling test graders. 
 This is not an education.
 Julie Edmonds New York, March 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 There is a simple equity point to be made about this initiative: these children respond to the same stimulus that middle- and upper-middle-class children respond to, one that has always been known by parents. Allowance and allowance bonuses, gifts, trips and other rewards of monetary value can motivate kids to do well in school. 
 Why not give these less fortunate kids the same opportunity if their success and futures are at stake?
 Tony Simmons St. Paul, March 5, 2008
 The writer is director of development at the High School for Recording Arts/Studio 4.
 To the Editor:
 New York City's experiment with paying students and teachers for improved test results is misguided. Research in other school systems, including studies presented to the American Economic Association, demonstrates that similar programs do not improve learning. 
 Like steroids, ''bribes'' and ''bounties'' may boost performance in the short run, but the long-term impact is not positive. In fact, academic achievement drops off when students enter classes that lack such incentives. Without the artificial stimulus, their motivation to learn is undermined.
 Also, these programs move schools further away from a focus on the whole child and toward becoming test-prep centers. Elevating test scores into the sole ''coin'' of the educational realm virtually guarantees that students cannot receive the rich education needed to succeed in a complex society.
 Jesse Mermell Executive Director, National Center for Fair and Open Testing Cambridge, Mass., March 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Checkbook strategies to reward students and teachers run the risk of incurring Campbell's law.
 In the 1970s, the social scientist Donald T. Campbell wrote that the more any quantitative indicator is used for decision-making, the more it will be subject to corruption and the more it will corrupt the very process it is intended to monitor.
 With pressure mounting to incorporate into classrooms the same tactics used in boardrooms, we better be ready for the same unethical behavior in schools that has characterized corporations. 
 Walt Gardner Los Angeles, March 5, 2008
 The writer is a retired teacher. 
 To the Editor:
 What happens when students who earned money for test scores go to a new school or grade where they don't receive money? Will they keep working hard?
 As a high school teacher in the Bronx, I know that many of my students would not respond to a cash reward with increased intrinsic motivation that would last beyond the reward. 
 Giving bonuses to teachers will work the way it does in the corporate world; giving bonuses to students will be one more reward that conditions students in the wrong way -- to be selfish and materialistic. 
 Adam Feinberg Brooklyn, March 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 My 15-year-old son, while generally good at academics, was struggling with classroom behavior issues. Finally, when he was in ninth grade, in total frustration, I asked him, ''What could I promise you that would give you the incentive to behave for the rest of the year?'' His answer? A Sony PlayStation.
 To his shock, I agreed (although not without some stomach-churning over the price of the gauntlet he had laid down). In his next two report cards, every single teacher commented on his remarkable turnaround. Since I believe a deal is a deal, and he delivered on his side, I delivered on mine. His behavior has not been an issue since.
 Sharon Barr Philadelphia, March 5, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARK ALLEN MILLER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (77%); STUDENT TEACHERS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); STEROIDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



222 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Senate Committee Seeks Audit of How Iraq Is Spending Its Soaring Oil Windfall

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ

 BODY:
Two senior members of the Senate Armed Services Committee have requested a full accounting of how Iraq is spending its soaring oil revenue, amid starkly conflicting estimates of how much the country has invested in rebuilding its broken infrastructure and providing basic services to its citizens.
 The request, sent Friday to David M. Walker, the top official at the United States Government Accountability Office, estimates that Iraqi oil revenue could skyrocket above $56 billion in 2008, largely because of the rising price of oil. 
 That enormous influx of cash comes as the United States has been reducing spending on the reconstruction effort. Since the invasion in 2003, the United States has invested close to $50 billion in reconstruction, but the effort has achieved at best mixed results when measured by improvements in the lives of Iraqi citizens. 
 Still, the American military and State Department continue to finance a wide range of relatively small reconstruction projects as well as training and equipment for Iraqi military forces.
 Despite the dire need for better health care, more electricity and clean water, a functioning sewage system and other services, the accountability office has previously estimated that Iraq spent only 22 percent of the oil money set aside for reconstruction in 2006. And in January, the office, which is charged with overseeing the Iraqi government's finances, reported that Iraq had spent a meager 4.4 percent of its 2007 reconstruction budget by August of that year, the most recent figures available at the time.
 As a result, the letter from the Armed Services Committee says, ''we believe that it has been overwhelmingly U.S. taxpayer money that has funded Iraq reconstruction over the last five years, despite Iraq earning billions of dollars in oil revenue over that time period that have ended up in non-Iraqi banks.''
 The letter was signed by Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who is the committee chairman, and Senator John W. Warner, a Virginia Republican who is a former chairman. Senator John McCain of Arizona, the ranking Republican on the committee and the presumptive Republican nominee for president, did not sign the letter.
 Iraqi officials say they face many obstacles in what might seem to be a straightforward task: spending their plentiful money. Workers are attacked, engineers and contracting experts have fled government ministries, construction companies refuse to take jobs in risky areas and building materials are not available.
 And if all of those factors were not daunting enough, the various Iraqi and American government entities involved cannot even agree on how much the notoriously opaque Iraqi bureaucracy has in fact spent on reconstruction. 
 Last fall, as Gen. David H. Petraeus, the top American commander in Iraq, and Ryan C. Crocker, the American ambassador to Iraq, reported to Congress on the state of the war, the Bush administration provided figures that contrasted sharply with those of the accountability office. The administration reported that by July 2007, Iraq had spent 24 percent of the $10 billion in oil revenue set aside for reconstruction that year.
 The accountability office disputed those figures, saying they were based in part on projections that proved inaccurate. But in a recent phone interview, a senior Iraqi official gave even more bullish estimates of the expenditures. Citing official Iraqi Finance Ministry figures, the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity in order to provide information that had not yet been publicly released, said by the end of last year, Iraq had spent 63 percent of its capital budget, a leap over the previous year that would indicate rapid progress in governmental efficiency.
 ''It's totally unacceptable that there's no decent accounting for their money,'' Senator Levin said in a telephone interview Saturday. ''But the problem is our money. Why are we spending our money five years later when they have a surplus? That's just extraordinary.''
 In order to resolve some of these discrepancies and track down where the oil money has gone, the letter by Senators Levin and Warner asks the accountability office to answer a series of basic questions.
 The senators requested detailed information on the amount of Iraqi oil revenue from 2003 to 2007, how much of that money has gone unspent, and ''how much money does the Iraqi government have deposited, in which banks, and in what countries?''
 Finally, Senators Levin and Warner ask the question looming over the entire rebuilding effort: ''Why has the Iraqi government not spent more of its oil revenue on reconstruction, economic development and providing essential services for the Iraqi people?''
 Also on Friday, Iraqi security forces discovered a mass grave containing the remains of about 100 people in Diyala Province, said Maj. Winfield Danielson, a spokesman for Multinational Forces-Iraq. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Baiji oil refinery, Iraq's largest. Although Iraq's oil profits have soared, it is unclear how much of the money has been spent on critical reconstruction projects.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EROS HOAGLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (58%); JOHN WARNER (58%); DAVID PETRAEUS (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



223 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: Serbia, Split Over Kosovo, Moves Toward Early Elections

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

DATELINE: PRAGUE 

 BODY:
Serbia's president, Boris Tadic, said Saturday that he would call early elections after the prime minister announced that he planned to dissolve his governing coalition, which would have effectively toppled the government. The elections could help determine whether Serbia embraces the West or returns to virulent nationalism. 
 The prime minister, Vojislav Kostunica, who has accused the president of forsaking Serbia's claim to Kosovo, said earlier in the day that he could no longer govern in coalition with Mr. Tadic's pro-Western Democratic Party. Mr. Tadic opposes Kosovo's independence, but argues that Serbia should forge closer ties with the European Union and the United States, regardless of Kosovo's status.
 Mr. Tadic issued a statement Saturday saying that the elections will be a ''democratic way to overcome the political crisis.''
 Kosovo declared independence on Feb. 17, with the backing of the European Union and Washington. It has been under United Nations administration since 1999, after NATO intervened to halt repression of Kosovo's majority ethnic Albanians. Serbs consider the territory their medieval heartland. 
 Mr. Kostunica said he would convene a session of the government on Monday that would propose to dissolve Parliament and call new elections for May 11. He said the government would continue in a reduced capacity until elections were held.
 ''The government, which does not have united policies, cannot function,'' Mr. Kostunica said. ''There was no united will to clearly and loudly state that Serbia can continue its path toward the E.U. only with Kosovo.''
 Analysts said Mr. Kostunica would likely try to team up with the Radical Party of Tomislav Nikolic, a right-wing nationalist, who has sought to exploit Serbs' anger over Kosovo's independence by arguing that a Serbia shorn of Kosovo should reject the West and turn to Moscow. The Radical Party has the most seats in the Serbian Parliament.
 Though Mr. Kostunica and Mr. Nikolic have clashed in the past, they have recently come together over the Kosovo issue; both lashed out at the West at the mass demonstrations this month. 
 Political observers said Mr. Tadic and the Democratic Party would face a challenge trying to rally support behind Serbia's pro-Western parties. ''This upcoming election will be crucial to the future of Serbia because it will determine if Serbia goes back to the isolationism of the Milosevic years or chooses a European future,'' said Zoran Dogramadziev, a Serbian commentator. 
 Mr. Kostunica, who helped lead the revolution that overthrew Slobodan Milosevic in 2000, is determined not to go down in history as the leader who lost Kosovo. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COUPS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (87%); ALBANIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



224 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2287 words

HEADLINE: Enter the Boosters, Bearing Theaters

BYLINE: By JESSE GREEN

 BODY:
IT isn't every day that a busy portion of Philadelphia's longest thoroughfare gets shut down, at least not on purpose. But one scorching morning in October, the block of Broad Street from Pine to Lombard, part of a stretch somewhat grandly called the Avenue of the Arts, was taped off, tented, festooned with mums and Mummers. While hundreds of guests sat wilting before the dais, awaiting words from Mayor John F. Street, Gov. Edward G. Rendell and Senator Arlen Specter, a clown on stilts entertained. It was all so quaint and civic, you'd have thought President Taft was coming to town. 
 But no, the worthies were there to cut the ribbon on the $25 million new home of the Philadelphia Theater Company, which for 25 years had rented a charming but dysfunctional theater a few blocks away. That 1912 building was called Plays and Players; it often seemed that the word audience was omitted deliberately. Sara Garonzik, the company's producing artistic director, said that many of its 324 seats were broken, that the lobby was too small to shelter patrons, and that the two hideous little bathrooms were barely accessible even to people not in wheelchairs. ''That facility was a very trying situation,'' Mr. Street recalled. 
 And not the only one, apparently. In recent years many of the 75 companies that form the League of Resident Theaters have looked at their aging or unaesthetic homes and joined what amounts to a nonprofit theatrical building boom. Since 2000 they and other institutions coast to coast have initiated dozens of construction projects whose combined tab is approaching $1 billion. The size of the scrums of dignitaries and donors who inevitably attend the groundbreakings and galas (and whose names seem to serve as wallpaper inside) suggests what it takes to get these buildings up. What's less evident is what it really means to operate them once they're built. 
 For one day, at least, that was not the Philadelphians' concern. It was a time for admiring the improvements and complimenting the architects, KieranTimberlake Associates, on the plush seats, roomy ground-floor bathrooms and lobby amenities reminiscent of a suburban bookstore. Backstage accommodations for the players are more modest, but the plays are well served with the latest technology. 
 Neither plays nor players, though, foot the bill, so the theater is named instead for its leading donor, Suzanne Roberts, a local actress and philanthropist whose husband, Ralph, is the founder of the Philadelphia-based cable giant Comcast. Ms. Roberts's signature, blown up to Rushmore size as if on a very large check, forms the marquee on the building, which is part of a condominium development called Symphony House being marketed to lovers of the arts.
 The politicians' own marketing was of a different sort. They did not paint themselves as culturati by praising the company's commitment to new American plays or its latest Terrence McNally premiere. Instead of art as an aesthetic endeavor, they spoke of it as a form of urban renewal and the new building as a weapon in the war of municipal competition: If Chicago can do it, so can we. 
 Mr. Rendell called the Roberts a worthy addition to the ''sense of dynamism on the Avenue'' and ''a great civic achievement.'' (Several other theaters -- the Wilma, the Merriam, the Prince -- have built or renovated spaces nearby.) Mr. Street said, ''Arts and culture are at the heart of what makes a city work.'' They might have been dedicating a shiny new stadium or water-treatment plant.
 They were not wrong to take that boosterish approach; public culture is based on the put-something-in, get-something-out model. Because government had a financial stake in the Philadelphia project (the state contributed $5 million and the city $3 million), it made sense for its representatives to justify the investment in terms of the economic return promised by well-heeled new neighbors and liquor tax receipts. But art is different from culture -- it is culture's subtext, in a way -- and one can't help sensing, among the actual artists at events like this around the country, a plaintive question behind the platitudes: Who are these buildings for? 
 Others have been asking that question too, wondering if the regional theater movement, which began in the late 1940s, has lost sight of its founding mission. As described by the monologist Mike Daisey in a recent article for the alternative Seattle newspaper The Stranger (and in a new piece called ''How Theater Failed America'' to be performed at Joe's Pub in New York next month), that mission was ''to house repertory companies of artists, giving them job security, an honorable wage and health insurance.''
 ''In return,'' he continued, ''the theaters would receive the continuity of their work year after year -- the building blocks of community.''
 For Mr. Daisey that dream is dead. ''When regional theaters need artists today, they outsource,'' he wrote. ''They ship the actors, designers and directors in from New York and slam them together to make the show.''
 And it's true that the building boom, particularly among the aging lions of the regional movement, is partly about creating whiz-bang ''destination'' theaters that will attract national talent. (Also, younger audiences.) But the companies say they are doing this to enhance or recapture their mission, not discard it. 
 At the same time they seem to be making pre-emptive statements about their centrality to the culture. In the last two years alone the Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis moved into its new $125 million Jean Nouvel home overlooking the Mississippi River; Arena Stage in Washington broke ground on the $120 million Mead Center, designed by Bing Thom; and the Dallas Theater Center, in the city where the regional movement arguably began, started building Rem Koolhaas's Wyly Theater, part of a cultural complex pegged at a Texas-size $338 million.
 ''You either grow or you die,'' said Joe Dowling, the Guthrie's artistic director.
 If the choice was that stark for a giant like the Guthrie, it was even starker at the smaller end of the scale. Companies like the Signature, in Arlington, Va., which moved into a $16 million new home last year, simply couldn't continue to function in their old spaces. The Signature was running at 97 percent of capacity in a 136-seat converted garage whose lobby also served as the main rehearsal hall. Patrons for hit shows were routinely turned away. 
 Ms. Garonzik, in Philadelphia, had the opposite problem: an aging core of subscribers who would not renew because of the physical discomfort of Plays and Players. ''They told our telemarketers that they just couldn't do it anymore,'' she said.
 Theaters like these are basically moving out of jury-rigged bachelor flats and (with the help of the folks) into their first real homes. They remain intimate. But some midsize institutions, like the Berkeley Repertory Theater, which in 2001 grew to 1,000 seats from 400, are expanding because their longtime homes no longer encompass their values and ambitions, if they ever did. The Williamstown Theater Festival in Massachusetts made do for 48 summers with what looked like a high school auditorium on the campus of Williams College; even great work seemed dinky there. The $50 million new complex it has shared since 2005 with the college's theater and dance departments is a more professional space than most of what you'd find on Broadway. But the surprising result has been too many productions that seem less professional by contrast: mediocre (but house-filling) musicals and mysteries starring television actors.
 As a summer theater Williamstown has always depended on imported talent. The so-called resident theaters, as Mr. Daisey's criticism and the word ''resident'' suggest, weren't supposed to work that way. But the goal of increasing national presence has made attracting names a deliberate part of many new building programs. 
 Michael Kahn, the artistic director of the Shakespeare Theater Company in Washington, said it was difficult enough to induce New York actors, afraid to be out of town for too long, to commit to the six-week rehearsal periods he favors, let alone the eight-week runs necessitated by the small size of the Lansburgh Theater, where the Shakespeare performed for 15 years. Longer runs also meant fewer productions. And like many retrofitted theaters, the Lansburgh, carved from the shell of a department store burned in the 1968 riots, placed unfortunate technical restrictions on designers and directors. A theater without trap space, Mr. Kahn pointed out, has no grave for Ophelia.
 The company's $89 million Sidney Harman Hall, which opened with Marlowe's ''Tamburlaine'' in November, solves all those problems. Productions in its reconfigurable 775-seat auditorium can theoretically turn a profit in five weeks. Ophelia can have a grave, an aerie or a flying carpet if a director so desires. And because the company has kept the Lansburgh, it can now program two theaters in sync. 
 But such improvements do not come without a cost, even beyond that of construction. (The Shakespeare is still short of its capital goal by about $18 million.) There is also the hugely increased cost of running a new theater once it's built. 
 Eric Schaeffer, artistic director of the Signature, said his staff had increased by 12 positions, including their first full-time custodian -- and, of course, more people in marketing and development. Greater lighting capacity (the old theater had 88 electrical circuits, the new one almost 600) resulted in higher utility bills. A bigger and better-equipped stage meant doubling the cost of productions. (You can't ask a set designer to put cardboard scenery in a platinum setting.) In the year the Signature moved, its annual operating budget ballooned to $5.5 million from $2 million.
 That pattern holds universally. The Philadelphia Theater Company's annual operating budget rose to $4.1 million in the new space from $2.1 million before its capital campaign began. The Shakespeare's rose to $19.4 million from $10.2 million; the Guthrie's to $26 million from $19.5 million. And as staff members at each theater pointed out, raising money to pay the janitor's salary is an entirely different problem from raising money to erect an edifice. 
 ''People love to build a sexy new building,'' Ms. Garonzik said. ''It's an offering. It says yes to the future.'' But donors who have put their names on the cloakroom or water fountain may be tapped out when it comes time for the boring old annual fund. And annual funds are distressingly annual. 
 ''Will we have to beat the bushes more?'' Mr. Kahn said. ''Yes.''
 The good news is that even without large increases in ticket prices (some have actually dropped), earned income at most of the new theaters has risen. There are more seats, of course, and people are curious to see what the spaces are like. Mr. Kahn said that was why he opened the Harman with ''Tamburlaine,'' a play unlikely to draw crowds otherwise. 
 ''Tamburlaine'' was also a successful test of the theater's expensive acoustics and production capabilities. Leading a backstage tour, a staff member proudly pointed out the new prop kitchen, in which the requisite buckets of blood were made and stored. Previously such work was done in the same cramped kitchen where the actors kept their yogurt.
 It's also good news that the buildings, as objects of architecture, are more successful than those built 20 or 30 years ago. They abjure the industrial aesthetic of that generation of theaters and the smug grandeur of many newer cultural centers. These theaters are voluptuous, albeit sometimes in the manner of a blingy trophy wife. Several even feature a private intermission lounge for high rollers. The Shakespeare's transparent cantilevered mezzanine lobby, like the Roberts's undulating walls glowing with hidden halogens, means lucrative rentals for corporate events and nontraditional bar mitzvahs.
 Providing party space and winning architecture prizes are not among the founding goals of the regional theater movement. In building their temples, theater companies risk losing some of the old-time religion -- the reliance on local resources, the seat-of-the-pants aesthetic -- that gained them adherents in the first place. But the companies are stuck in an economic bind. Reasonably enough, directors want the opportunity to stretch their imaginations with the latest technology, performers want dignified work conditions, and audiences want seats whose springs don't threaten to give them tetanus. If the theaters don't address these issues, they will stay small. If they stay small, they have to raise their prices; if they raise their prices, they risk losing new audiences; if they lose new audiences, they don't have a future. 
 The new buildings are the only way out, even if they make tangible the institutions' contradictions as well as their aspirations. With enough Harmans and Wylys and Robertses, though, those contradictions can be papered over almost inconspicuously. Mr. Kahn pointed out that he did not have to open his new theater with ''Hello, Dolly!'' in Elizabethan clothes or some other desperate attempt to pay the mortgage at the expense of the mission. 
 Similarly, at the Signature, Mr. Schaeffer has not scaled back his theater's productions of difficult American musicals. Just the opposite. For ''Kiss of the Spider Woman,'' which begins performances Tuesday, he has gone ahead with a three-story set more complicated than anything the theater has ever built.
 The only problem is that they've run out of space to store it. ''We need a bigger scene shop,'' he said with a sigh.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 16, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the nationwide building boom of regional theaters omitted an architect who helped design the Dee and Charles Wyly Theater in Dallas. Besides Rem Koolhaas, it was also designed by Joshua Prince-Ramus.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Regional theaters have gone on something of a construction binge, with several moving into new homes recently and others planning them. Clockwise from above right: the Guthrie in Minneapolis
the Signature in Arlington, Va.
Berkeley Repertory in California
a rendering of the Wyly in Dallas
and the Suzanne Roberts in Philadelphia. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CLOCKWISE FROM TOP RIGHT: GALLOP STUDIOS
STEPHANIE KUYKENDAL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
KEVIN BERNE
LUXIGON
DUSTIN FENSTERMACHER/WONDERFUL MACHINE, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.AR1)
The Shakespeare Theater Company in Washington opened its new home in the Harman Center for the Arts, right, with ''Tamburlaine'' in November. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE KUYKENDAL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Above, the new Suzanne Roberts Theater in Philadelphia. Right, the Signature in Arlington, Va. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DUSTIN FENSTERMACHER/WONDERFUL MACHINE, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 STEPHANIE KUYKENDAL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.AR8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); THEATER COMPANIES (76%); CHARITIES (76%); MAYORS (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (71%); CABLE INDUSTRY (69%); CONDOMINIUMS (68%)

PERSON: ARLEN SPECTER (58%); ED RENDELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



225 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-CHART; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: The State of Iraq: An Update

BYLINE: By JASON CAMPBELL, MICHAEL O'HANLON and AMY UNIKEWICZ. 
Jason Campbell is a senior research assistant at the Brookings Institution in Washington. Michael O'Hanlon is a senior fellow at Brookings. Amy Unikewicz is a graphic designer in South Norwalk, Conn.

 BODY:
IRAQ'S security turnaround has continued through the winter. The question for 2008 is whether Iraqi security forces can preserve and build on this improvement as they increasingly bear more of the responsibility as the number of American troops declines (and as refugees and internally displaced Iraqis try to return to their homes). 
 Iraq's economy is propped up by oil. Attacks against oil fields and production plants are dropping fast (down to one a month this year, after averaging 5 to 10 a month previously), allowing modest increases in output. Still, basic health and education indicators, as well as sewage and water and irrigation services, show little improvement, and unemployment is high. 
 The most intriguing area of late is the sphere of politics. To track progress, we have established ''Brookings benchmarks'' -- a set of goals on the political front similar to the broader benchmarks set for Baghdad by Congress last year. Our 11 benchmarks include establishing provincial election laws, reaching an oil-revenue sharing accord, enacting pension and amnesty laws, passing annual federal budgets, hiring Sunni volunteers into the security forces, holding a fair referendum on the disputed northern oil city of Kirkuk, and purging extremists from government ministries and security forces. 
 At the moment, we give the Iraqis a score of 5 out of 11 (our system allows a score of 0, 0.5, or 1 for each category, and is dynamic, meaning we can subtract points for backsliding). It is far too soon to predict that Iraq is headed for stability or sectarian reconciliation. But it is also clear that those who assert that its politics are totally broken have not kept up with the news.

GRAPHIC: CHART Chart details various statistics on Iraq war. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (88%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (79%); IRAQ WAR (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); DISPLACED PERSONS (72%); ELECTION LAW (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); REFERENDUMS (67%); AMNESTY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (74%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



226 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2319 words

HEADLINE: A Science Prodigy in an Unlikely Place

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

DATELINE: BAYONNE, N.J. 

 BODY:
 ERIC DELGADO is what those in research call an outlier -- an anomaly, a deviation from the typical.
 Mr. Delgado, 18, one of the 40 finalists in the Intel Science Talent Search, the nation's most prestigious high school science laurel, won his prize in a way that defied the formula. That formula may not be as unforgiving as E=MC2, but it goes something like this:
 A) Attend a top-flight school with high-octane students.
 B) Join a freshman program that teaches you how to do research and then perform ever more challenging experiments into the senior year. 
 C) Pair with scientists and adapt an unresolved sliver of their research. 
 A + B + C = Intel. But that's not the path Mr. Delgado followed while investigating the mechanism that bacteria use to resist antibiotics. He did not attend Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan or any of the Long Island public schools that pop out Intel winners like clockwork. Rather he is a senior at Bayonne High School, a three-block-long fortress in a blue-collar city of 62,000 where oil refinery tanks loom over a landscape of one- and two-family clapboard houses. The median household income is $41,566. Only half the 3,000 high school students go on to four-year colleges.
 ''We have a history of kids who go to Ivy League schools and kids who try to stay out of prison,'' was how Robert Dawson, the Bayonne School District's director of science, tartly described the spectrum of students.
 Bayonne's research program is catch-as-catch-can, a three-year-old ''science seminar'' where currently only five students beguiled by science fair projects meet before school with their adviser. Any research training they receive is on an as-needed basis.
 But a growing number of schools across the region, including schools in less affluent communities, have been putting extra resources into developing research programs that challenge their academic stars and, in some cases, lead to science prizes for both students and school districts. 
 In Westchester County, Ossining High School, which also has an economically and academically diverse student body and started an intensive research program in 1998, has produced 22 Intel semifinalists, including 6 this year.
 On Long Island, schools in Dix Hills, East Setauket, Kings Park, Smithtown, Port Washington, Roslyn and Great Neck turned out 9 of the nation's 40 Intel finalists this year. They as well as six other finalists from New York State including one from Byram Hills High School in Armonk in Westchester (Connecticut had none this year and New Jersey had just Mr. Delgado) will join Mr. Delgado at the Intel dinner on Tuesday in Washington, where scholarships of $40,000 to $100,000 will be awarded. 
 Here's a look at how finalists from two schools -- Bayonne High School and John L. Miller-Great Neck North High School on Long Island -- went about their projects and the teachers and programs that helped them. 
 AT Bayonne, Maria Aloia, a physical science teacher who runs the science seminar, helped Mr. Delgado secure bacteria cultures and plant extracts and arranged telephone and e-mail consultations with scientists in California, Colorado and Arkansas. But he never met those mentors face to face. He did the research on his own, working out of a storage closet at the back of a science classroom where his equipment was not much more sophisticated than a centrifuge and an incubator.
 Yet Mr. Delgado, a broad-shouldered youth whose twin, Nelson, is the captain of the football team, became the first finalist Bayonne ever had in the 67-year-old Intel contest (originally known as the Westinghouse). He showed that Intel scholars can blossom in any soil if a student is ardent about investigative science. 
 ''The talent is here, but in a suburban school it's more obvious that it's catered to,'' said Ms. Aloia, a former chemical engineer in her fifth year of teaching. ''Still, we perform miracles. Eric did his research in a closet!'' 
 Mr. Delgado's achievement was helped by two forces of nature -- Ms. Aloia, 53, who sensed immediately that Mr. Delgado had the right stuff, and his mother, Virginia Davila, 49, the daughter of Puerto Rican migrants who raised her sons as a single office-working mother but had the determination to make sure they optimized their talents.
 It was not entirely predictable that Bayonne would have spawned an Intel winner. It is the kind of school where, according to teachers, some students reject evolution for religious reasons while others opt out of dissections because they consider them cruel. 
 Yet Mr. Dawson and Ms. Aloia found methods of immersing talented students in research in ways that don't cost a lot of money. Bayonne is one of 19 New Jersey high schools whose students shuttle to the Waksman Institute of Microbiology at Rutgers University to learn how to break up DNA and identify individual genes, using organisms like brine shrimp. 
 ''Biology is changing from dissection to biochemistry and how things work on a molecular level,'' said Mr. Dawson, who sometimes wears a tie with a picture of Einstein and his E=MC2 formula. 
 His school's star science student was interested in science as a little boy, asking for a chemistry set for Christmas while other children were asking for Game Boys. Mr. Delgado remembers taking apart a computer at age 11 to see how it worked ''and my mom getting mad because the pieces were all over the living room.'' 
 His Intel project had its genesis in his eighth-grade study of how proximity to power plants diminished the diversity of tardigrades, tiny segmented organisms that live off the lichen found on trees. He and his mother drove around a good part of Hudson County using tweezers to take lichen samples. 
 In the summer after his sophomore year he had an internship at the Jersey City Medical Center conducting statistical studies of cases where bacteria resisted antibiotics and came across a paper on herbal antibiotics that inhibit bacterial resistance. 
 He asked Ms. Aloia to find him some experts, and she put Mr. Delgado on a call with a scientist at a company in Hamilton, N.J., working on bacterial resistance. Mr. Delgado peppered him with questions about lab techniques. ''I loved that conversation with your student,'' the scientist told Ms. Aloia.
 Another scientist sent Mr. Delgado strains of genetically modified E. coli bacteria that could be safely taken to school. A third scientist in Colorado sent him a plant extract that inhibited a pumplike system in the bacteria membrane that expelled antibiotics. 
 ''As long as the professor knows that I'm legitimately interested in what I'm doing, they're more than ready to help,'' Mr. Delgado said. ''They want to contribute to the next generation of scientists.''
 Mr. Delgado zeroed in on a hypothesis that the plant extract could be engineered to inhibit resistance in bacteria like E. coli that are more common in humans. Starting last August, he put in 20 to 30 hours a week on his project and demonstrated when the extract could or could not be effective. 
 Such focus explains why he can also be captain of the mock-trial and debating teams and work 10 hours a week as a veterinarian's helper. (The only TV he watches is when he is running on the treadmill.) Not surprisingly he is heading for Princeton next fall on a full scholarship.
 ''He's got a Type B exterior and Type A interior,'' Ms. Aloia said. ''He'll look real cool on the outside and on the inside he's got a zillion things going on.''
 His mother still cannot quite take in how much a child of hers has accomplished, and her voice broke as she recalled her struggles. ''I always said nothing's impossible and whatever you want to do you can -- just put your all into it,'' she said.
 WINNING an Intel prize is nothing new at Great Neck North, which has produced 8 finalists and 39 semifinalists. 
 Freshmen enroll in a 14-year-old program where they learn how to search databases, apply statistics, organize scientific papers and produce compelling oral reports, then practice their skills with simple social science experiments. Around 25 students take the class, and those who stay into the sophomore and junior years perform a series of independent experiments that they submit to science fairs. 
 Toward the end of the student's junior year, teachers help those interested in the Intel contest find professional mentors. Such research opportunities everywhere offer a way to cultivate scientists at young ages in the same fashion that Olympic skaters are molded at a young age by expert coaches. Six Intel/Westinghouse finalists have gone on to win Nobel prizes.
 ''Getting kids to play the game of science with the scientists is likely to get them interested in science professionally,'' said Alan Schorn, a physics teacher and the impresario of Great Neck's research program. ''It's like the classic guild system. A shoemaker takes on an apprentice.''
 The community they live in is the famously Gatsbyesque peninsula of 40,000 on the North Shore of Long Island with gently rolling acres of Tudors and colonials and a median household income of $76,645. At Great Neck North High School, 93 percent of the 960 students earn Regents diplomas, and many are accepted to elite colleges. Graduates include the film director Francis Ford Coppola, the Olympic ice skater Sarah Hughes and David Baltimore, winner of the 1975 Nobel prize in medicine.
 This year, the school's finalists were Benjamin Mueller and David Rosengarten. Mr. Mueller, 18, worked at an M.R.I. lab at Columbia University Medical Center under the guidance of Dr. Joy Hirsch, professor of functional neuroradiology, taking the Long Island Rail Road and the subway every day during the summer to perform brain scans on five adult subjects, including his father, a musician, and his mother, a book editor. In a project partly titled, ''The Neural Basis of the Decision to Reward or Punish in Parenting,'' he tried seeing what regions of the brain were fired up by rewards or punishments for deeds like scoring a straight-A report card or getting caught stealing. He discovered that a parent's decision to reward more often uses neurocircuits associated with emotion while decisions to punish require more cognition and calculation. 
 Mr. Rosengarten's project in astrophysics, ''Rotation Curves in Five Dimensions,'' investigated the motion of stars within galaxies and the influence of matter not visible to the eye -- so-called dark matter. Mr. Rosengarten, 17, the son of an accountant and an elementary schoolteacher, was doing long division in first grade, algebra by sixth grade and Advanced Placement calculus and physics by ninth grade. He developed his project in a conversation with a professor of theoretical physics at Stony Brook University, Martin Rocek. 
 Like so many Intel finalists, both students do many things well. Mr. Mueller, a sturdy 6-footer, is captain of the basketball and soccer teams. Mr. Rosengarten is captain of the chess and math teams and plays cello in the orchestra. 
 Their full-blown induction in science began as freshmen in the school's research program. The other day, a freshman, Alex Schifter, 14, was testing his hypothesis that up-tempo music gets people to work harder while a more indolent beat slows them down. He has cajoled 25 classmates to put on a sensor that measures force while music like the theme from the film ''Rocky'' is played. In another project, Maria Angelidis, 14, was testing 46 students to show that there are differences between boys and girls in the associations they make to color.
 ''Boys might associate red with anger and girls might associate it with love,'' she said.
 Of course, Intels are a hopeful marker of how well science is taught in American schools. By contrast, frequent studies bemoan the state of science instruction, mostly by contrasting American students with those in European and Asian countries. But experts say the issue is complicated. European schools often funnel their weakest students into vocational tracks. At the highest levels and for the most affluent or striving, many experts say, American schools do well, explaining why the nation clings to its stature as the world's great science research powerhouse. 
 ''More and more there's a separation between the well-educated and the not well-educated,'' said Alan I. Leshner, chief executive of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
 Too many schools -- particularly in poor or rustic areas -- give short shrift to science instruction, resulting in widespread ignorance of basic principles, he and other experts said. Jo Ellen Roseman, director of an American Association for the Advancement of Science project to improve science literacy, said fewer than 25 percent of middle-school students recognize that a burning marshmallow is a chemical reaction.
 Some critics hold responsible what they see as the current emphasis on ''critical thinking'' at the expense of basic scientific knowledge; others blame innovations like the No Child Left Behind law that focus on reading and math to the detriment of subjects like science.
 Locally, New Jersey and Connecticut finished roughly 21st and 23rd among the 44 states that took the National Assessment of Educational Progress science test in 2005. Only 29 percent of eighth graders in both states scored in the proficient ranks and 4 percent in the advanced ranks. (New York State, with the exception of the five boroughs, did not participate.)
 Whether it is in Great Neck or Bayonne, front-page news about Intel winners serves a useful purpose in both places: it draws new acolytes. 
 ''It's making science popular,'' Ms. Aloia said. ''The school is so big a lot of students never realized there was a cool science program they could join. Now a lot of kids are asking me, 'Can I try a science project?' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE RIGHT STUFF: Eric Delgado, Intel finalist, in the cluttered space at Bayonne High where he worked on his project. Below, Mr. Delgado with his teacher, Maria Aloia, who runs the science seminar. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES SCIENCE STAR) (pg.LI1
SCIENCE STAR: Above, named a finalist in the Intel Science Talent Search, Eric Delgado receives a round of applause from students in the senior lounge at Bayonne High School. Right, students making their way to classes between periods at Bayonne.
 FOCUSED: At Great Neck North, David Rosengarten, pointing, explains his project to fellow Intel finalist, Benjamin Mueller. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.LI8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); BACTERIA (68%); ANTIBIOTICS (68%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (90%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



227 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; GENEVA MOTOR SHOW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Glamour and Cars? It's Still the Swiss

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

DATELINE: GENEVA 

 BODY:
 THE Geneva Motor Show remains a throwback to the time when auto shows were celebrations of the industry. Glamorous women, wearing the latest fashions from Paris and Milan, still pose provocatively next to gleaming cars as waiters pass by with caviar and pricey Champagne.
 During the press previews at other auto shows, most of that glamour has faded away -- the Champagne fountains dried up long ago and the foie gras has been replaced by chili dogs. 
 That reality will return in two weeks when the whole assembly reconvenes, sans the Geneva-style flamboyance, for the New York International Auto Show.
 The competition at Geneva for the most over-the-top introduction is always tough. This year, however, it would be hard to beat the twin terrors from Koenigsegg, the Swedish supercar manufacturer. Its CCX two-seater makes 888 horsepower and costs $2 million. For the environmentally conscious speed demon willing to pay a slight premium (total cost: $2.3 million at current exchange rates), there was the CCXR, which can also run on ethanol. That model can make 1,018 horsepower. 
 Though it makes barely half the horsepower of the CCXR, the diesel Audi R8 V-12 TDI LeMans concept does churn out similar gobs of torque (738 pound-feet vs. 782 for the Swede). The Audi is still a concept, as opposed to the Koenigsegg, which is ready for delivery. 
 At the opposite end of the affordability spectrum was the little Nano, the $2,500 car that will be produced by Tata Motors of India. Though Tata said it had no plans to sell the Nano outside of India, the huge public interest in the car, even among the blue bloods at Geneva, could help to change that thinking.
 Small cars loomed large at Geneva this year. There was a huge inflatable Fiat 500, a reminder of what a big success that little car has been. The 500 has been named the 2008 European Car of the Year. 
 American fans of Alfa Romeo await the brand's impending return to the United States, first with the 8C Competizione coupe. An 8C Spider convertible, also coming to America early next year, was unveiled here as well. Other models, including the 500, will follow if the first wave is successful, the company said
 Coming as close as it does this year to the New York show, Geneva was also something of a sneak preview for several models that will make their North American debuts during the March 21-30 show at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center.
 The European version of the Honda Accord was unveiled at Geneva; in New York, it will be introduced as the new Acura TSX, with modest refinements in ride and creature comforts.
 Mercedes-Benz took the wraps off several models here that will also be in New York. A vehicle of special note was the GLK diesel hybrid. This S.U.V. was seen at the Detroit auto show in January with a diesel engine; here, it had a mild hybrid electric system capable of raising fuel economy to 40 miles a gallon. Mercedes plans a big introduction in New York for its Bluetec diesel engine technology. The GLK hybrid goes on sale in Europe later this year and in early 2009 in the United States.
 BMW also showed a diesel-electric hybrid X5 crossover utility vehicle here, which the company said achieved 36 m.p.g.. But it is still two to three years away from being available for sale.
 America may also have to wait that long for the Ford Fiesta subcompact unveiled in Geneva; the company still has not set a date for its American introduction. Europeans will also get to enjoy other interesting Ford models shown here, like the Focus Coupe-Cabriolet and Kuga small utility wagon. Kuga fans might do well to also look at a Volvo XC60. Introduced here, the shapely XC60 will offer a braking system that Volvo said would prevent low-speed rear-end collisions.
 Other notables among the 60-plus models unveiled in Geneva were the Morgan LifeCar, a hydrogen fuel-cell concept from the eccentric British sports car company; the Rinspeed 
 sQuba, capable of submersing and running underwater; a 560-horsepower Lamborghini Gallardo; high-concept design studies from the Italian specialists Giugiaro and Pininfarina; the $400,000 Rolls-Royce Phantom Coupe; and a $650,000 Bentley GTZ by Zagato.
 Geneva's ultimate symbol of excess, however, is the Bugatti Veyron Hermes edition with calfskin seats and dashboard. For the vulgarians who must ask the price of such things, it will be 1.55 million euros (about $2.4 million) when it is offered later this year. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STANDING OUT: From left, the Alfa Romeo 8C Spider, Ford Fiesta, Volvo XC60 and the crowd-drawing Tata Nano. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARIJAN MURAT/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY (FORD) AND NICHOLAS RATZENBOECK/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES (VOLVO))
 HIGH END: The Bentley GTZ by Zagato and, right, the Koenigsegg CCXR, which can make 1,018 horsepower. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JERRY GARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (BENTLEY, KOENIGSEGG, AND BELOW, ALFA, TATA)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR MODELS (90%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); TRADE SHOWS (70%); ALCOHOLS (68%); EXCHANGE RATES (67%); ETHANOL (67%)

COMPANY: TATA MOTORS LTD (54%)

TICKER: TTMT (LSE) (54%); TTM (NYSE) (54%); TATAMOTORS (NSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



228 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 291 words

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL. 
E-mail: bigdeal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WILL the cool winds of recession settle over the luxury Manhattan market, as some market analysts are expecting? So far, the available evidence does not support that hypothesis.
 Ask John Burger, a broker at Brown Harris Stevens, who put a 12-room duplex co-op at 775 Park Avenue at East 73rd Street on the market for $24 million in late February. There was a 19-foot gallery opening out to a 33-foot living room facing Park Avenue, in an Italian Renaissance building designed by Rosario Candela. 
 Within 10 days, the four-bedroom co-op was in contract. Mr. Burger said the response was exceptionally strong, since apartments in that particular line in the building had not been available for at least 19 years. 
 ''Some of these Candela apartments are like paintings,'' he said. ''When a great painting comes on the market, the market will be there. The architectural masterpieces of New York are always well received.''
 Preliminary sales records in February show median Manhattan prices and sales volume roughly comparable to prices in the second half of 2007. Average prices in February for all Manhattan apartments were up 37 percent and median prices up 23 percent from February 2007, in part from the sales of expensive new condominiums.
 Average co-op prices were up 14 percent, while median prices rose nearly 4.5 percent, compared with the same month in 2007. The number of co-op sales lagged below a year ago. 
 Jonathan J. Miller, the chief executive of Miller Samuel, an appraisal firm, said that the market was stable but that prices were unlikely to rise above the records set in 2007. If the economy continues to lag, he said, the situation may be more worrisome in 2009, as markets are based, in part, on momentum and psychology.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); PAINTING (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); SALES FIGURES (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (70%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



229 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Borrowing Yourself Out of Trouble

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
FOR a mortgage borrower verging on delinquency, a cheaper loan may be the best way to save a home. But Fannie Mae, which holds major sway in the mortgage industry, is offering another alternative: an additional loan.
 The company, which bolsters the mortgage market by buying loans from lenders and reselling them in bulk to investors, announced the HomeSaver Advance late last month. This program will enable borrowers to take out an unsecured personal loan to cover missed mortgage payments quickly.
 Mike Quinn, a Fannie Mae senior vice president, says the loan is best suited for those who have fallen behind ''because of a temporary life event or hardship, like loss of a job or divorce or sickness.'' Once they emerge from such situations, he said, borrowers may be able to pay their monthly bills but may not be able to catch up easily on the missed mortgage payments. Lenders typically give borrowers two years, at most, to catch up. 
 Under the HomeSaver Advance program, loan servicers -- companies that provide billing and payment services on a mortgage lender's behalf -- can offer a 15-year loan at a 5 percent interest rate to cover delinquent payments. Borrowers are not required to make a payment on that loan for the first six months.
 The maximum loan amount is the lower of $15,000 or 15 percent of the unpaid balance and may be used to cover all mortgage-related bills. These include lawyers' fees and escrow advances, which are payments made by mortgage servicers to cover increases in taxes and insurance that result in shortfalls in a borrower's escrow account. 
 A borrower never receives the money directly. Rather, it goes to the loan servicer, which also receives $600 from Fannie Mae for initiating the loan. A borrower pays no origination fees.
 These loans will be available to borrowers starting next month. To qualify, a borrower must have a loan that was sold to Fannie Mae by the original lender, as is the case with about 23 percent of all mortgages nationwide. A borrower may call or write the customer-service department listed on the monthly mortgage bills to determine if the loan is a Fannie Mae mortgage.
 Prospective applicants must be in arrears by an amount that is equal to or greater than two full payments of the mortgage principal, interest, taxes and insurance, and the loan must be at least six months old.
 Beyond that, borrowers must demonstrate that they have resolved the reasons behind their delinquency and show they can afford an additional loan payment of at least $200 per month. If borrowers have the ability to repay their mortgage debt within nine months, they cannot qualify for the HomeSaver Advance loan.
 Isis Rockwell, a counseling manager at NovaDebt, a financial counseling service in Freehold, N.J., said the Fannie Mae program ''sounds like an attractive idea.'' Still, Ms. Rockwell said, when borrowers manage their finances poorly enough to put themselves in peril once, additional monthly debts may not be a wise option. ''It's generally not a good idea to borrow yourself out of debt,'' she said.
 But Mr. Quinn of Fannie Mae said lenders would give the loans only to borrowers who have good chances of shouldering the additional debt. ''We've had a very, very high success rate in workouts we've done in the past,'' he said, using industry shorthand for flexible payment plans offered by lenders to borrowers.
 ''Well over 60 percent of the borrowers we've done modifications for -- and this is like a modification program, just simpler -- have never come back and been delinquent again,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH (Source: HSH Associates) Graph showing the index for adjustable rate mortgages for the New York region. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); PROPERTY ESCROW (78%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (64%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



230 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; QUESTIONS FOR LARRY BRILLIANT; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Giver

BYLINE: Interview by DEBORAH SOLOMON

 BODY:
As the head of Google's philanthropy division, you oversee a budget of about $1 billion to be spent on socially constructive causes, like developing plug-in cars or tracking bird flu along the Mekong River. Is that enough money to make a difference? I think that we have a generous allotment of resources -- money and people and the talent of engineers to get started. I can do an awful lot more than I could before I got here. 
 Google.org, which is based is San Francisco, seems very Northern Californian in its approach to philanthropy, drawing on 1 percent of the company's equity and profits rather than the personal fortune of its founders. When Larry Page and Sergey Brin created Google.org, they had in mind a new kind of philanthropy. Google's employees, of which there are more than 16,000, can work on projects in poverty, economic development and climate change. 
 That sounds good in principle, but how do we know your employees aren't just installing Google search engines on zillions of third-world computers? I will tell you that in my own life, I have frequently gotten confused between charity and this idea of using business skills to solve global problems. It's clear to me now that if these are the biggest problems in the world, what if all of corporate America were part of the solution? 
 You seem to have a lot of faith in corporations and their sense of social responsibility. A lot more than I had in the '60s. Or let me amend that and say I have a lot more faith in certain companies. 
 Your own career was fed by the idealism of that era and began in India, where you spent a decade as a hippie doctor and an epidemiologist. I lived in New Delhi. I worked for the World Health Organization, went everyplace where there was smallpox, which in those days was almost everywhere. 
 I read somewhere that you were a doctor to Jerry Garcia and the Grateful Dead. Jerry was a very dear friend of mine. But I am not a practicing physician, and let me say that no one who has any degree of sanity would use me as a clinical doctor. I'm so out-of-date. I met Jerry because the Grateful Dead did concerts for the Seva Foundation -- 
 The nonprofit group you launched in Berkeley. It was started to give back sight to people blinded by cataracts. The money was raised primarily by rock concerts. Crosby, Stills and Nash, Paul Simon, Joan Baez -- they all gave benefit performances.
 Where are you from? Detroit. 
 What did your dad do for a living? He owned a music company, Brilliant Music, on Livernois and Eight Mile Road. He sold radios, and he had jukeboxes and record players. He died of a lymphoma when I was 19. That may explain your joint interest in medicine and rock music. Of course. 
 Do you think being Dr. Brilliant has helped your career? Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. 
 What does that mean? On Tuesdays and Thursdays, when I do a bad job, it's a terrible name. 
 Now that you are in your 60s, what have you learned that you didn't know in the 1960s? I think what I didn't understand when I was young was that corporations have personalities just like humans do. It is possible for companies to be virtuous. 
 Are you worried that you sound like a business booster? I am a booster for some businesses. When you use business to solve public-health problems and global problems, I want to boost that process. 
 Isn't it naive to say that a company can be completely virtuous? I didn't say completely. I said virtuous.
 INTERVIEW CONDUCTED, CONDENSED AND EDITED BY DEBORAH SOLOMON

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON MADARA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (64%); CANCER (62%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (60%); BLINDNESS (60%); RECORD INDUSTRY (60%); POP & ROCK (60%); CATARACTS (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); LYMPHOMA (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (96%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%)

PERSON: SERGEY BRIN (58%); LARRY PAGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) INDIA (90%); UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



231 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; NETWORKING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Middle-Aged and Out of Work? Let's Have Breakfast and Talk

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER. 
E-mail: lijournal@nytimes.com

DATELINE: West Hempstead 

 BODY:
 WHEN Valentina Janek, 55, lost her job as an administrative manager for a technology publishing company three and a half years ago, ''it was like I lost my life,'' she said.
 She began getting together at a diner on Route 110 in Melville with a small group of other middle-aged people who were in the same boat. 
 ''Instead of crying, we were trying to figure out why we can't get jobs,'' Ms. Janek, of West Hempstead, recalled. What was working against them, she said, was their ''age and their experience.'' 
 The diner owner became annoyed when the group ordered only muffins and coffee, Ms. Janek said, and asked them after 10 months to find another meeting place. The group kept meeting, its numbers grew, and it eventually became known as the Long Island Breakfast Club. 
 Its regular monthly breakfast meeting is now held at Sterling Glen, an assisted-living complex in Roslyn; the next one is scheduled for April 12. It has grown from a group of five co-founders to 67 members (mostly women) providing advocacy, career counseling and what Ms. Janek calls ''old-fashioned laughter'' to middle-aged job seekers.
 The group's motto is ''experience counts,'' Ms. Janek said. 
 However, human resources executives told her she was ''too experienced,'' she said, the logic being ''I have done too many things, I would be bored.'' 
 ''It took me 27 interviews to get a job,'' she said. After two false starts, six months ago Ms. Janek landed a position as director of marketing at ARS Financial Services in Jericho. 
 Recently the Long Island Breakfast Club has been holding extra meetings as it plans its first fund-raiser on April 1 at the Inn at New Hyde Park, in memory of JoAnn Fiorentino, a co-founder who died of ovarian cancer in October. At one meeting of about 20 members in a community room at the library here, a certified financial planner outlined strategies for managing money during a period of unemployment. 
 Joan Manzolillo, 54, of Seaford, who had just come from a job interview in Manhattan, described herself as a ''seasoned executive assistant'' with ''good skills, great articulation, great people skills.'' 
 Out of work since November, Ms. Manzolillo waffled about the success of her interview that day. 
 ''Sometimes you think you did well and you never hear from them again,'' she said. Her resume lists three jobs, each lasting seven years. ''The girls that are interviewing me are younger than my son,'' who is 32, she said. 
 The club gave her ''tremendous support and encouragement to keep going,'' she said. 
 Marcia November, 52, of Huntington, who lost her job in pharmaceutical sales and was jobless for a year, said younger applicants have an edge with employers because ''they can pay them less.'' The club helped her broaden her search and shift careers, she said. She now sells business-to-business products for a communications company, though at half the pay she once earned. 
 Salary was also an issue for Elise Negrin, 53, of Bethpage. After 25 years assisting a sole proprietor in the automotive subprime lending business, Ms. Negrin was fired last year. She combed newspaper ads and online job sites. She sent out 500 resumes but netted only one interview. Six months and half her retirement fund later, she landed a new job through networking, but took a two-thirds cut in pay, from $150,000 to $50,000.
 Even so, Ms. Negrin said the group gave her ''confidence that my networking ability was really working.'' She brought along an ad for a new position that was opening up at her company. 
 Dr. Juliana Opatich, 52, of Massapequa Park, joined the club in January. An obstetrician/gynecologist, she worked alone for 20 years before joining a larger medical practice. Fired last year, she isn't sure whether she wants to return to patient care or pursue a new career teaching or doing ''something creative.''
 ''Everybody has the same emotions,'' Dr. Opatich said. 
 Ms. Janek is writing a book, ''Life After the Big Bad Boot,'' including tales about the effects of downsizing and anecdotes about job interviews from support group members. 
 After being unemployed for three years, Ms. Janek said, her ''restraints are off.'' 
 She advised the unemployed to ''take the cut and move on.'' 
 ''Dust yourself off, get yourself dressed, change your hairdo, put on your makeup and your shoes and keep going,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SUPPORT: Dr. Juliana Opatich, center, at Long Island Breakfast Club meeting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRK CONDYLES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); PUBLISHING (73%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (68%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (63%); FUNDRAISING (62%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (53%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (53%); OVARIAN CANCER (50%); CANCER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



232 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; CHECK IN, CHECK OUT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: New York City: Chelsea Pines Inn

BYLINE: By ARIC CHEN

 BODY:
THE BASICS
 For years, the 26-room Chelsea Pines Inn was the kind of place where you might imagine drag queens lugging Pierre Cardin suitcases, armed with Ritz crackers, discount-bin chardonnay and dreams of the big city. The Waldorf this was not. But with its location in gay Chelsea and its kitschy, Hollywood-themed rooms, each paying homage to a different silver screen star, the popular hotel made up in warmth what it lacked in polish. Last year, it underwent a much-needed makeover of its lobby and rooms. The paint is fresher, and the bed sheets newer. But the inn, thank heavens, hasn't lost its campy, rough-around-the-edges charm. 
 THE LOCATION 
 A 19th-century row house on a bus-clogged stretch of West 14th Street between Eighth and Ninth Avenues -- not Manhattan's most glamorous block. But it is perfectly situated for traipsing around Chelsea, the meatpacking district and the West Village. 
 THE ROOMS
 Book early. It took several calls before a room opened up, No. 126, better known as the Susan Hayward room. (Plaque on the door: ''Academy Award/Best Actress/'I Want to Live'/1958.'') Facing the back, it was quiet and roomy enough, with a high tin ceiling and refurbished touches: a new leather armchair, Joseph Abboud pillows, Thomas O'Brien sheets and a clean coat of French blue paint. Sadly, not everything was so pristine: the silver-laminate cabinets had long lost their glitter, and the carpeting brought out my inner drama queen -- stained and musty, it desperately needed a good steam cleaning or, better yet, replacing. (The hotel says it has plans to do the latter.) 
 THE BATHROOMS
 The separate shower and toilet were tight fits, but the light fixtures, tiled walls and faux metallic floor looked new. The water pressure was good, too. Gilchrist & Soames toiletries further freshened things up. 
 AMENITIES
 The greatest amenity was the staff, which was flawlessly welcoming and helpful. Otherwise, my superior room was basic, except for a few frills: flat panel television, iPod dock and a plethora of gay-friendly reading materials, like HX, MetroSource and L, tucked in a drawer. At five floors, the inn has no elevator, but it does offer what many pricier hotels can't seem to get a grip on: local calls and Wi-Fi at no extra charge. 
 THE CROWD
 There's not much of a lobby scene, since there isn't much of a lobby. But one night, a posse of spiky-haired young men, with one female friend, paraded past the stairway's Blackglama posters on their way out on the town. 
 ROOM SERVICE
 There is no room service. But a Continental breakfast (included) is served in the downstairs breakfast room and new solarium, in addition to 24-hour coffee, tea and, on the night I was there, Oreos and chocolate chip cookies. Reception has delivery menus from nearby restaurants, some offering discounts to guests. 
 BOTTOM LINE
 A shrine to divas -- though it's not for true divas. But in terms of novelty, coziness and price, it's hard to beat. Economy rooms (with private showers and sinks, but shared toilets) start at $150 a night; standard rooms with private baths start at $175 a night. Chelsea Pines Inn, 317 West 14th Street, New York City; (888) 546-2700; www.chelseapinesinn.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Susan Hayward room at the Chelsea Pines Inn. The rooms have film-star themes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



233 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: The Wife Of a Coach Is Seen And Heard

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
On its N.C.A.A. tournament resume, Siena has a victory against Stanford, which was ranked No. 20 at the time, a victory at Boise State and a regular-season conference title. 
 The Saints are seeded No. 1 in the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference basketball tournament and have home-court advantage this weekend as they aim for their first N.C.A.A. bid since 2002. On Saturday, the Saints breezed past ninth-seeded Manhattan at the Times Union Center, 66-58, setting up a semifinal matchup against Loyola on Sunday. 
 But for all the good vibes that Siena has generated this season, its biggest national headlines came courtesy of Margaret McCaffery, the wife of Saints Coach Fran McCaffery and a former star player at Notre Dame. Margaret McCaffery's outburst after Siena's overtime loss to Loyola on Feb. 16 may have even trumped the publicity that Siena received for its upset of Stanford. 
 ''It is unique,'' said Siena's athletic director, John D'Argenio. ''She has a lot of passion for the game and understands it at a higher level. That's what makes it a unique and interesting thing.'' 
 After the loss to Loyola, Margaret McCaffery told reporters in colorful terms that she felt Siena had been victimized by the officials. Perhaps worse, considering the delicate relationships between college coaches and referees, she said, ''Will Bush is a horrendous official.''
 She was not done there. During Fran McCaffery's news conference, he gave typical muted responses when asked his opinions on the officiating. After one of his answers, Margaret McCaffery chimed in from the back of the room, asking about a specific call. 
 Fran McCaffery, who had not been in the room for his wife's first comments, cut her off. ''Marg, that's enough,'' he said in a clipped tone. 
 He later chalked up her outburst to frustration. 
 ''To be honest with you, I thought that what happened this year got completely blown out of proportion,'' he said. ''She made a comment about an official like a lot of family members would, but it was in the wrong place.'' 
 D'Argenio assured reporters it would not happen again. The local news media had a field day. 
 The incident highlighted the distinctly different personalities of Fran and Margaret McCaffery. Fran McCaffery, 48, is as studious and bookish as his bachelor's degree in economics from Penn's Wharton School would suggest. 
 Margaret McCaffery, formerly Margaret Nowlin, is 37 and considered much more outgoing. She graduated from Notre Dame, and the two began dating when they were basketball assistants there. They have four children, ranging in ages from 9 to 1. 
 Margaret McCaffery is 12th on Notre Dame's career scoring list and sixth on its career rebounding list. She also played professionally overseas. 
 ''She knows the game, obviously, so he can talk to her about it if he wants,'' said Digger Phelps, a former Notre Dame coach and current ESPN commentator. ''My ex-wife, I had to talk to her about literature.''
 Margaret McCaffery first made headlines in 2006 when she and her husband were ejected from a game at Hofstra. After Fran McCaffery was tossed for what he said was the first time in his career, his wife was ejected later in the game after a tirade at officials that included profanity. She was escorted from the arena by a security guard. 
 Her passion goes past commentary on officiating. She is a fixture around the team, during games and at practices. She is also known for cooking the occasional meal for players, including a specialty apple dessert. 
 For Fran McCaffery, the support is necessary. 
 ''This is a very difficult profession,'' he said. ''It's a long season and there's a lot of emotion. To have someone that really understands the game, you can have a sophisticated basketball conversation with, is really helpful. I find it very helpful.''
 MAAC QUARTERFINALS Gerald Brown scored 18 points and made the clinching dunk with 16.9 seconds to play for fourth-seeded Loyola (19-13) in a 64-59 victory against Fairfield (14-16). ... Jason Thompson scored 18 points for second-seeded Rider (22-9) in a 75-71 victory against 10th-seeded Canisius (6-25). ... Ryan Stilphen had 9 points and 8 rebounds for sixth-seeded Marist (18-13) in a 66-62 victory against third-seeded Niagara (19-10). (AP) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (89%); RANKINGS (89%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); BASKETBALL (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); FAMILY (65%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); BOISE STATE UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



234 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1830 words

HEADLINE: After a Fight to Survive, One to Succeed

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
They came to New York as ''displaced persons'' in the early 1950s, Jewish refugees who had survived the Holocaust. Today, in film and story, such survivors are treated with a kind of awe, and their arrival in America is considered a happy ending. But a very different picture, with an oddly contemporary twist, emerges from the yellowing pages of social service records now being rescued from oblivion at the Center for Jewish History in Manhattan.
 The files, from a major Jewish resettlement agency that handled tens of thousands of cases, show that many of these refugees walked a gantlet of resistance and distrust: disapproval of their lack of English and need for health care, threats of deportation, and agency rules shaped by a suspicion of freeloading.
 An unschooled 19-year-old hoping for an education was scolded for dreaming and sent to work in a factory. A newlywed couple who arrived with four pieces of baggage, ''mostly books,'' were soon forced to choose whether the husband would keep his job or keep the Jewish Sabbath. An ailing, jobless father of three, facing immigration laws that called for deportation of those who sought public aid, told his caseworker, as her notes put it, that ''he was more concerned and more disturbed now than he had ever been in the Warsaw Ghetto.'' 
 Between the lines of these and other case files, chosen at random from the first boxes to arrive at the center for archival preservation, the stubborn resilience of many refugees shines through. Today we know that as a group, over time, they did exceptionally well in America. But in the files, the uncertainty of each case resonates across six decades, and poses a haunting question: What became of these people?
 Tracking down the answer can provide more than a bittersweet coda to dusty documents. It can suddenly allow the past to speak to the present.
 Take that 19-year-old, whose name was Hersch Wanderer, later Americanized to Harry. He was sent to work in a buckle factory and had to drop out of night school. But reached recently at his winter home in Boca Raton, Fla., Mr. Wanderer, 77, said he had done well enough in business to start two scholarships in New York, ''for young people to have the chance that no one gave me.'' 
 It will take two to three years for center archivists to process the hundreds of thousands of records being retrieved from scattered warehouses of the resettlement agency, the New York Association for New Americans, including documentation that spans later refugee migrations. Carl J. Rheins, executive director of the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research, a partner of the center, called the trove one of the most significant additions to the archives in 30 years, and said he was eager to make it available to researchers, students and family members. 
 ''This is an important chapter in American immigration history,'' he said. ''It's got to figure in the dialogue about immigration, about keeping the doors of this country open.''
 The doors were virtually shut in the 1920s, with highly restrictive quotas that held firm through World War II despite appeals for people fleeing fascism. At the war's end, polls showed that as many as 72 percent of Americans disapproved of President Harry S. Truman's proposal to allow more European refugees to come to the United States, largely based on fears of unemployment. 
 Patchwork legislation eventually allowed for admission of almost half a million displaced persons, as they were called, by 1951. But a cold-war climate also led to increasingly severe measures to exclude, deport and even revoke the citizenship of those who fell short of desired self-sufficiency, morality or political orthodoxy, according to Aristide R. Zolberg, a leading historian of immigration policy.
 The files reflect that mood. In one, caseworkers worried that an unmarried young woman whose family had perished in the death camps could be excluded for ''moral turpitude.'' She was arriving with a 3-year-old child, the son of an American serviceman who had abandoned her when she was six months pregnant. 
 In another case, a young family was cut off from agency assistance two months after their arrival, for failing to disclose a ''secret bank account'' containing $138 in loans from friends. The wife, a survivor of three years in a German concentration camp and four years of exile in Russia, had found it hard to live within the agency's $47 monthly allowance, the file said, because she ''never accepts the fact that she just can't buy as much food as she wants to give to her child.''
 Many of the files reflect the families' fear of deportation if they had to seek public aid or health care. The father of three who had survived day to day in the Warsaw Ghetto, for example, was distraught when the agency cut off aid and told him to apply for welfare in May 1952, a year after the family arrived. Even the agency was uncertain how welfare might affect their future under a pending immigration bill.
 ''In leaving me today he was quite disturbed and fearful,'' the caseworker wrote of the father, a 46-year-old former printer with a dislocated arm, who had been studying English, taking a course in making picture frames, and hunting for night work.
 His wife, 10 years younger, worked as a dressmaker at first, but had to stop because of an unplanned pregnancy and complications. The couple had even considered placing the baby for adoption, but could not bear to do it, the caseworker reported.
 ''He felt that the family needed money immediately,'' but that in applying for welfare ''he would be besmirching his children's names,'' the file said. ''As he talked about this, he moved quickly to a feeling of desperation and wondered whether he would ever be able to be successful.''
 An effort to trace that family for this article failed, and under the rules of access to the records, their names cannot be published without their permission. But a file about the family of Lajosh and Alice Pauker, who entered the United States in 1960, led to their two children. Mr. Pauker sought the agency's help in November 1961, when his wife, an Auschwitz survivor from Hungary, broke down at her factory job in Brooklyn and was taken to a hospital psychiatric ward. 
 ''He had been told to take his wife out of Kings County Hospital immediately, as otherwise she would be deported,'' wrote the agency caseworker, unable to deny or confirm what Mr. Pauker had heard from friends. ''He firmly believes that her 'nervous condition' is the result of her concentration camp experience.''
 Instead of asking about that experience, however, the caseworker focused on documenting every penny of the family's finances. The only help the agency provided was paying for the mother's psychotherapy and tranquilizers. The father, an itinerant repairman of soda-water chargers, was later chided for not reporting the few dollars that his young son earned fixing bicycles after school. And when his daughter graduated from high school with honors, she had to give up on college to help support the family.
 ''I'm grateful for what they did, but basically, they were not looking at the overall picture,'' said the son, Peter Pauker, now 59, an advertising consultant in Manhattan.
 Atina Grossman, a historian at Cooper Union who has written about the displaced-persons camps of postwar Germany, said attitudes reflected in the case files were widespread at the time, shaped in part by pre-Depression ideas about pauperism, and by a mix of pity and contempt for the ''D.P.'s,'' as they were widely known.
 ''Nobody is thinking, 'Oh, amazing, survivors,' '' Professor Grossman said. ''At worst they are human debris, quote-unquote; at best they are unfortunate victims who have to be resocialized. There's this big concern on the part of the social workers that they are creating a dependent class.'' 
 Walter Ruby, a spokesman for the resettlement agency, said the social workers showed the refugees compassion within the limits of the system. '' 'America doesn't take care of you' -- that was what they were telling these people,'' he said.
 The paradox, Professor Grossman said, was that as a group, displaced persons were very self-reliant. 
 The newlywed couple offer a striking example. In January 1954, a caseworker suggested they ''readjust their thinking'' about observing Sabbath at sundown on Fridays if the husband, an engineer, wanted to stay in his profession. The husband wanted to respect the strong religious feeling of his young bride, the file noted, but his boss would not permit a change in work schedule.
 The couple, now 80 and 77 and living in Manhattan, have not forgotten the choice they confronted in a new marriage and a new land. But considering what they had overcome, they said it hardly fazed them. 
 The husband, Mark Kanal, started work at age 11, and was the only one in his family to survive Auschwitz. When he tried to return to his hometown after the liberation, he said, he narrowly escaped lynching by Polish anti-Semites. 
 So, like many others, he crossed borders illegally to get to American-occupied Germany. Determined to go to college, he used his cigarette allotment from a United Nations refugee organization to pay for tutoring from unemployed professors, and made it into the polytechnic institute in Munich. There he met his wife, Rachel, who had spent the war in Siberia. 
 ''To come to a democratic country like America and not be able to practice your religion there the way you feel you should didn't feel right to me,'' Mrs. Kanal said. Her husband agreed. So he gave up his first American engineering job -- and went on to a career as an aerospace engineer, eventually working on NASA's moon and space shuttle programs. 
 ''This is the real America,'' he said recently, recalling how Sputnik ended the gentlemen's agreements that in his experience had kept Jews out of high technology. ''You want to do it, you know you can do it -- go, see what you can do.'' 
 Today's immigration debate often contrasts the achievements of such legal immigrants with the burdens imposed by illegal border-crossers. But that distinction does not seem so clear to people like Harry Wanderer and his older sister, Helen. 
 In 1951, a caseworker dismissed Harry's interest in a yeshiva education as ''unreal,'' and told him ''he was expecting the agency to operate as an affluent parent on whom he could lean for support.'' She did not know that he was a young child when the Nazis invaded his hometown in Poland, that he had dug potatoes in Siberia to help his family survive, cleaned toilets in a Czech prisoner of war camp for two cigarettes a day that he could trade for bread, and smuggled himself across several borders to reach a D.P. camp -- the portal to emigration. 
 ''We were all smuggled across borders,'' said his sister, who was 26 when they arrived in New York, and is now a retired Hebrew teacher of 83. ''We had to go someplace. America seemed good. And they let us in!''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 14, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about the struggle by Jewish survivors of the Holocaust to survive as refugees in 1950s New York -- a story now emerging from records being rescued at the Center for Jewish History in Manhattan -- misspelled the surname of a historian at Cooper Union who has written about the refugees. She is Atina Grossmann, not Grossman.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A FOCUS ON WORK: Helen Wanderer immigrated with her brother, Harry, below. Mr. Wanderer, who took the photograph at lower right (his sister is at left), was advised to forget about an education.
LIMITED AID: Alice Pauker, in coat and light patterned dress, in a photograph taken at Auschwitz in 1944. She suffered a breakdown, and her son, Peter Pauker, below, believed that a resettlement agency ignored ''the overall picture'' when it provided assistance. (pg. 36) (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARBARA P. FERNANDEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(PHOTOGRAPH BY YAD-VASHEM PHOTO ARCHIVE)(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 LIVES FROM THE FILES Mark and Rachel Kanal came to the United States as newlyweds. Mr. Kanal quit his first job as an engineer to accommodate his wife's strong religious feeling. At right, pictures of the couple taken in a photo booth around 1954. At top, papers and photographs belonging to the family of Lajosh and Alice Pauker. Records concerning the Kanals, the Paukers and other Holocaust refugees were found in files from a resettlement agency. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 33) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLOCAUST (90%); DISPLACED PERSONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); REFUGEES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (89%); IMMIGRATION (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (69%); FASTENER & PIN MFG (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



235 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Scenes From Newark's City Hall, Replayed in Federal Court

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
 At the sparsely attended trial where former Mayor Sharpe James faced federal corruption charges, the light was cool, the voices were soft and the proceedings had the feel of an academic conference on sleazy government.
 So there was Basil Franklin, Newark's former housing director, telling a story out of Elmore Leonard of taking a call from the mayor sometime near the end of 2001 and being summoned to the Almor Furniture store. There he was directed to an upstairs room where he found not Mr. James but his former chief of staff, Jackie R. Mattison, who had recently been sprung from prison after serving nearly three years for taking bribes.
 Mr. Mattison was interested not in a microsuede ottoman, but in some of the properties the city was planning to sell off, a process that as Mr. Franklin explained it had gone from one with rules and guidelines to a game of who-do-you-know. ''There was no professional or legal vetting of anybody,'' he testified. 
 Nothing came of that meeting, so the mayor later called again, there was another meeting, and over time Mr. Mattison and his associates found plenty of properties to shop for. Another prospective buyer of city property was Tamika Riley, who prosecutors contend was Mr. James's mistress. Their allegation that she used her connections to him to buy properties she quickly turned around for a profit of about $600,000 is at the heart of the charges both are facing.
 The trial of Mr. James, looking like a dapper anachronism at 72, was a glimpse into the past of a city whose current mayor, Cory A. Booker, is a prototype of the contemporary Urban Mayor 2.0.
 One moment you're a five-term incumbent, with beach house, yacht and Rolls-Royce, able to raise millions in barely regulated cash. The next you're last year's model fighting to stay out of the slammer. 
 But that's the courtroom. Around the corner at King Fried Chicken, not much of the past is past. Well, maybe for the kids coming up who barely know who Mr. James is. But for most of the others, both admirers and detractors, there's just a lesson in life. ''Everything in this country's stolen,'' said Edward Davis, a 35-year-old photographer, who said two of his great-great-grandparents were full-blooded Cherokees. 
 ''We took it from the Indians, and it's gone on ever since. So everyone uses their connections. Everyone looks out for their own. That's the way it is in Washington. It's the way it is at City Hall. It's the way every company's human resources department works -- 99 percent of the time that's how it works.''
 Antonio Burgman, 39, an assistant paralegal sitting at one booth, is a supporter of Mr. James. He doesn't think much of the charges but thinks people are tuned in, as if wanting to know the final act of a soap opera. Barry Hill, 45 and unemployed, worked as a volunteer in both Mr. Booker's mayoral campaigns. Though he's a critic of Mr. James, he's not sure people are safer or better off with Mr. Booker. 
 ''I worked for him twice, and I didn't get any of those jobs with the city,'' he said. ''He fires people from Newark and hires someone from New York? I don't know about that. James did get jobs for people. I'll give him that.''
 Back and forth it goes, people who see Mr. James as corrupt and out of date and people who figure there were good reasons that he was king of Newark for 20 years. Some of the detractors figure Mr. James's elastic business ethics have finally caught up with him. ''It's probably overdue, but better now than never,'' said Tregg Barney, 30. But more common is a sense that even if Mr. James was looking out for his friends, isn't that the American way? And what they care about is two things -- safety and jobs, neither of which will change overnight or have much to do with whether the feds, after more than a decade, finally nail Mr. James.
 Sitting over a plate of chicken, a black hood covering half his face, is Antonio Benders, 27, engaging and wry, who served a six-year term at the Garden State Youth Correctional Facility at Yardville on a drug conviction. Now he has a $9-an-hour job at a chilly supermarket warehouse -- hence the hood. He's determined to stay out of prison, but as a 27-year-old with a record and a G.E.D., he'd like to think there is a path to a job that becomes a career, not a ticket to subsistence living, but he's not sure how you find it.
 So he's not going to excuse Mr. James if he betrayed his office. But he's not all that outraged either.
 ''You can't do it the right way, you can't do it the wrong way,'' Mr. Benders said. ''How can you do it?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Former Mayor Sharpe James, center, is accused of improperly helping a woman who bought city property she turned around for a $600,000 profit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SYLWIA KAPUSCINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BRIBERY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); HUMAN RESOURCES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



236 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: HORMONES, GENES AND THE CORNER OFFICE

BYLINE: By EMILY BAZELON. 
EMILY BAZELON IS A SENIOR EDITOR AT SLATE.

 BODY:
THE SEXUAL PARADOX 
 Men, Women, and the Real Gender Gap. 
 By Susan Pinker. 
 340 pp. Scribner. $26. 
 Why do girls on average lead boys for all their years in the classroom, only to fall behind in the workplace? Do girls grow up and lose their edge, while boys mature and gain theirs? 
 Ten years ago, no one would have thought to ask. The assumption that boys dominated at school as well as at work, while girls were silenced or ignored, seemed beyond dispute. But in her new book, ''The Sexual Paradox,'' a ringing salvo in the sex-difference wars, Susan Pinker stacks up the evidence of boys' classroom woes and girls' triumphs. ''In the United States, boys are three times as likely to be placed in special education classes, twice as likely to repeat a grade and a third more likely to drop out of high school,'' she writes. Tests of 15-year-olds in 30 European countries show girls far outstripping boys in reading and writing and holding their own in math. Boys are overrepresented in the top 1 percent of math achievers, but there are also more of them at the bottom. A 2006 economics study showed universities practicing affirmative action for men so that superior female applicants wouldn't swamp them. ''If you were to predict the future on the basis of school achievement alone,'' Pinker writes, ''the world would be a matriarchy.'' 
 And yet, of course, it is not. Once they move from school to work, men on average earn more money and run more shows. They particularly dominate in national government, the corporate boardroom and the science laboratory. Meanwhile, women are more likely to leave the labor force and to end up with lower pay and less authority if they come back. 
 Pinker, a psychologist and a columnist at The Globe and Mail in Canada, is careful to remind her readers that statistics say nothing about the choices women and men make individually. Nor does she entirely discount the effect of sex discrimination or culture in shaping women's choices. But she thinks these forces play only a bit part. To support this, Pinker quotes a female Ivy League law professor: ''I am very skeptical of the notion that society discourages talented women from becoming scientists,'' the professor writes. ''My experience, at least from the educational phase of my life, is that the very opposite is true.'' If women aren't racing to the upper echelons of science, government and the corporate world despite decades of efforts to woo them, Pinker argues, then it must be because they are wired to resist the demands at the top of those fields. 
 Thus, Pinker parks herself firmly among ''difference'' feminists. Women's brains aren't inferior, she argues, but they vary considerably from men's, and this is the primary explanation for the workplace gender divide. Women care more about intrinsic rewards, they have broader interests, they are more service-oriented and they are better at gauging the effect they have on others. They are ''wired for empathy.'' These aren't learned traits; they're the result of genes and hormones. Beginning in utero, men are generally exposed to higher levels of testosterone, driving them to be more competitive, assertive, vengeful and daring. Women, meanwhile, get a regular dose of oxytocin, which helps them read people's emotions, ''the truest social enabler.'' Then there's prolactin, which, along with oxytocin, surges during pregnancy, breast-feeding and caretaking. Together, the hormones produce such a high that mother rats choose their newborns over cocaine. 
 Many of the scientific claims are familiar from previous books that pump up findings on sex difference, like ''The Female Brain,'' by the neurologist Louann Brizendine. Pinker goes even further by drawing a straight line from those blissed-out rats to human mothers who dial back at work. Because of their biological makeup, she argues, most women want to limit the amount of time they spend at work and to find ''inherent meaning'' there, as opposed to domination. ''Both conflict with making lots of money and rising through the ranks,'' she points out. 
 Pinker is surely right to contest what she calls the ''vanilla male model'' of success -- ''that women should want what men want and be heartily encouraged to choose it 50 percent of the time.'' Or that when employers say jump, employees should always say how high. Even as they work fewer hours for less status and less money, on average, more women report that they are satisfied with their careers. Maybe men might well think the same if more of them felt they could cut back. But Pinker's difference feminism doesn't really allow for that possibility. She is a believer: ''The puzzle is why the idea of sex differences continues to be so controversial,'' she writes. 
 In her zeal, Pinker veers to the onesided. She doesn't acknowledge that some of the research cited in her footnotes is either highly questionable as social science (Louise Story's 2005 article in The New York Times, for instance, about her survey of Ivy League women's aspirations) or has never been replicated -- like the findings from Simon Baron-Cohen's laboratory that newborn girls showed more interest in looking at human faces, while newborn boys preferred mechanical mobiles. Pinker omits the work of scientists who have shown that sex-based brain differences pale in comparison to similarities. We shouldn't wish the role of sex differences away because they're at odds with feminist dogma. But that doesn't mean we should settle for the reductionist version of the relevant science, even if the complexity doesn't make for as neat a package between hard covers. 
 Pinker also doesn't acknowledge that some scientists wouldn't accept the premise behind her chapters about male fragility. She cites men with Asperger's syndrome and attention deficit disorder as examples of what she calls the ''extreme male brain.'' These men are train wrecks in school but then get on track in adulthood, when they can focus singlemindedly on their chosen fields. Pinker argues that their experience helps explain the general male lag at school and jump ahead at work. It's true that men are more likely than women to suffer from Asperger's and from some forms of A.D.D. But do their particular outsize talents and deficits really shed light on the workings of the average man's brain? That question is hardly settled, and Pinker seems a bit glib when she fails to say as much. 
 Pinker also skips past an answer to the book's central question that may have more explanatory power than her other arguments, even if it's more prosaic and familiar to many a parent. Boys lag dramatically behind girls in terms of psychological development and physical resilience and then start to catch up as teenagers, as a long-running and wellknown study Pinker cites documented. Maybe after a few years as girls' developmental equals, boys are ready to compete in the work force -- and then zoom ahead as cultural norms and discrimination push women back. After all, why would girls' hard-wired predilection against competition stay on ice while they blithely sweep all the academic honors and then kick in only at work? 
 Despite such unanswered questions, Pinker deserves credit for hacking away at the vanilla male model. She is right to point out that ''grueling hours do not always translate into productivity'' and to seethe at employers for ratcheting up their demands ''even while extolling the virtues of gender balance.'' And she is also right to call on schools to give the troubles of boys a fair share of attention. Pinker may not convey all the complexity that goes into making many men's and women's lives different, but she has a good prescription for helping more of us be our best selves.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TAMARA SHOPSIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (89%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); DISCRIMINATION (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); WRITERS (70%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (68%); PSYCHOLOGY (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Sexual Paradox, The (Book)>; Sexual Paradox, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



237 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; RUST IN PEACE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: G.M.'s Tiny Gift To Toyota et al.

BYLINE: By ROB SASS

 BODY:
WHAT WAS IT? The 1976-87 Chevrolet Chevette.
 WHAT WAS THE POINT? In response to gasoline shortages and rising fuel prices, General Motors needed a small gas-sipper to compete with econoboxes like the Volkswagen Rabbit, Fiat 128 and Renault Le Car. 
 REALITY CHECK Most competing cars were designed with space-saving front-wheel drive. In contrast, the Chevette had a conventional front-engine, rear-drive layout, complete with an awkward driveline tunnel that robbed passenger room. The stone knife and bearskin approach didn't end there -- the Chevette's 1.4-liter in-line 4-cylinder made just 52 horsepower -- some 20 less than a Toyota Corolla of the time. For those in no hurry at all, G.M. even offered a diesel version.
 CHEAP TRICKS A barebones version, the Scooter, cost $2,899 in 1976. It lacked anything that smacked of comfort, including the back seat. Other packages included the most comical use ever of fake-wood side trim. 
 A PLACE IN HISTORY Assembly quality matched the notorious standards of many G.M. cars of the mid-1970's -- a factor in the concurrent rise of the Japanese.
 THE ADS SAID ''It'll drive you happy.''
 COLLECTORS SAY Chevettes have little cachet, but are cheap to maintain. When they show up at collector auctions with bidders' bars, the cars' perky appearance, viewed through the bottom of a cocktail glass, can produce positive results for the seller. One of the last Chevettes to appear at an auction, a car with 24,140 miles on the odometer, sold for $2,700 in Auburn, Ind., in 2004. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BROCHURE COLLECTION OF STEVE HAYES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIESEL FUEL PRICES (90%); GASOLINE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



238 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2008 NISSAN ROGUE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Whole Lot Of Shakin' Going On

BYLINE: By CHERYL JENSEN

DATELINE: PITTSBURG, N.H. 

 BODY:
 HERE in far northern New Hampshire, just a few miles from Quebec, the site of the onetime Indian Stream Republic seemed an appropriate place to take the Nissan Rogue. In 1832, the locals exhibited some roguish behavior by declaring themselves a sovereign nation, having grown frustrated by a 60-year dispute over the boundary of the United States and Canada. Four years later, Canada gave up its claim and the territory became an official part of New Hampshire.
 I am taking a travel break and pondering a weighty question about the Rogue as I sample the banana cream pie at Dube's Pittstop, home of the '' 1/2-lb. Whoppie pie'' -- a chocolate confection with vanilla filling -- as well as a sumptuous selection of dried pig's ears on the counter near the cash register.
 That question is this: How much vibration is one willing to absorb when the price of a vehicle -- and most everything else about it -- is right? 
 The vibrations I am concerned about come from the in-line 4-cylinder in the Rogue, a new competitor to the Honda CR-V, Ford Escape, Toyota RAV4 and a host of other small crossover utility wagons. Although many 4-cylinder vehicles are prone to vibrations through the steering column (like the Scion xB I recently drove) these are exceptionally intrusive in the Rogue.
 Still, the Rogue has a lot of positives. It is competitively priced, costing less than 4-cylinder versions of the segment's three best sellers, the Toyota RAV4, Honda CR-V and Ford Escape (when comparably equipped with an automatic transmission). The Nissan is very well appointed. 
 The least expensive model, the Rogue S, starts at $19,995 with front-wheel drive and $21,315 with all-wheel drive. The nicer SL starts at $21,535 with front drive and $22,735 with all-wheel drive.
 Based on the underpinnings of the Sentra compact car, the Rogue uses the 2.5-liter 4-cylinder engine from the Altima, which produces more horsepower and torque than many competitors can claim. It is paired with Nissan's continuously variable automatic transmission.
 In the Rogue, Nissan says, the engine produces 170 horsepower at 6,000 r.p.m. and 175 pound-feet of torque at 4,400 r.p.m. While the Rogue can be a bit slow when starting out, it moves along nicely once the engine is over 2,500 r.p.m. 
 Although several other small sport utilities offer 6-cylinder engines in addition to in-line 4's, Nissan thought the Rogue could be competitive without a V-6. (The larger Murano gets that.)
 All Rogues have electronic stability control, antilock brakes and six air bags, including side bags in the front seats and roof-mounted inflatable curtains that extend to cover front and rear passengers. Active head restraints, which help to protect the necks of those in a rear crash, are standard. 
 I tested an S model with all-wheel drive and splash guards ($125). Its sticker price was $21,320. Other options could run the price up another $4,800. 
 I had previously driven two pre-production development models, a step away from cars that would go to customers. It was in the first preproduction model that I noted vibrations through the floor and steering wheel in the 1,200 to 1,500 r.p.m. range. In a second preproduction model, the vibrations were much less noticeable, but still present. So I waited to drive a production version before forming my judgment.
 It wasn't long into this drive to Pittsburg that the vibrations started givin' me excitations once again. They were less noticeable than with the first car, but worse than the second. In any case, they were still annoying at around-town speeds -- enough that I pondered the wisdom of ignoring the speed limits and driving everywhere at 50 m.p.h. 
 The intrusive buzzing was a shame because otherwise the Rogue is a nice addition to a crowded segment. In several important ways I liked it better than either the CR-V or RAV4. 
 A Nissan spokesman, Brian Brockman, said the vibrations, and sometimes a booming noise, were associated with the way the torque converter lockup clutch, which works to increase an engine's efficiency and fuel economy, is tuned. Some people are more sensitive to these than others, he said.
 ''Lucky me,'' I thought -- though my husband also found them annoying. Since fuel economy is important to buyers in this segment, Nissan thought customers would be happier with better fuel economy than they would be with eliminating a vibration that some people may not even detect, he said.
 ''It's a condition we are aware of and keeping an eye on,'' Mr. Brockman added. ''But that was a decision that was made during the development process.''
 In all-wheel-drive form, the Rogue gets marginally the best mileage in its class, according to the government's Web site (www.fueleconomy.gov). The federal rating is 21 miles a gallon in the city and 26 m.p.g. on the highway. That's one m.p.g. better in the city than the CR-V. (Two-wheel-drive Rogues are rated at 22 m.p.g . in town and 27 on the highway.) I got close to 29 m.p.g. in the production version.
 The dashboard and instrument panel are fairly attractive partly because Nissan uses soft-touch plastic, which looks much nicer than the hard stuff. Even the cloth seats are attractive.
 Over all, the Rogue's interior is a big step up from the CR-V and RAV4. Only the speedometer -- with its very small numbers and orange illumination -- is out of character with the legible and easy-to-use controls. 
 The split back seat flops forward easily, but doesn't fold completely flat or move fore and aft like those of some competitors. There is no third-row seat, like those available in the RAV4 and Mitsubishi Outlander, although these are pretty cramped accommodations in vehicles this small. 
 But the virtues of the Rogue became obvious after we turned right onto Indian Stream Road into what a sign called God's country. The tarred lane-and-a-quarter-wide road quickly turned into hard-packed dirt. It got narrower and signs warned of logging trucks. The Rogue handled the washboards without the tail getting distracted. Even when cornering on a washboard surface, the vehicle stayed planted. 
 Heading south out of Pittsburg on narrow and twisty-treacherous Route 145, the Rogue showed that it is pretty nimble. Where the road dropped away after a crest, the Rogue settled down quickly. Despite the comfortable suspension, there wasn't a lot of bobbling. 
 On back-to-back drives with the CR-V and RAV4, I found the Rogue to be quieter and to ride more comfortably than the RAV4. And while both it and the CR-V feel somewhat sporty, the Rogue strikes a better balance between sporty handling and comfortable ride. 
 The variable transmission, which uses a belt to create a constantly changing array of gear ratios, worked well on the sharp turns that required some serious slowing. Once you can see your way through the turn and it is safe to finally press down on the accelerator, you get the power when you want it, without waiting for a conventional transmission to downshift. It just goes.
 So back in Dube's Pittstop, my internal debate goes on. The Rogue is attractive on many levels: price, safety features, ride, handling, engine performance, fuel economy. Is all that enough to cancel out those negative vibes?
 INSIDE TRACK: A few shakes short of perfect.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nissan Rogue (pg. AU6)
 ROGUISH: Nissan's crossover is well appointed, above. The valley was once claimed by United States and Canada, left. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER JENSEN) (pg. AU1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (72%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (72%); ELECTRONIC TRACTION & STABILITY CONTROL (72%); ANTILOCK BRAKING SYSTEMS (60%)

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (91%)

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



239 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM'; Column 0; Magazine; THE MONEY ISSUE; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 3011 words

HEADLINE: Self-Made Philanthropists

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA. 
Joe Nocera is a business columnist for The Times and a magazine staff writer.

 BODY:
One day in the fall of 2006, Paul Steiger got a call from Herb and Marion Sandler. It came completely out of the blue. At the time, Steiger was the managing editor of The Wall Street Journal, the paper's top editorial position, a job he'd held for 15 years. He'd had his share of great moments, including 16 Pulitzer Prizes, and his share of miserable ones, including the murder of Daniel Pearl and the steady drip, drip, drip of cutbacks and layoffs. A year away from The Journal's mandatory retirement age of 65, Steiger was just beginning to think about what he might do next.
 He knew the Sandlers, but not well. ''They were people who were interesting and good sources,'' he recalled not long ago. ''I would have dinner with them once a year or so.'' For most of the time Steiger knew them, they had been running a company called Golden West Financial Corporation, which they had built since 1963 from a two-branch savings and loan in Oakland into the second-largest S.&L. in the country. 
 Steiger also knew them as ''civic-minded people who were kind of partial to lefty or progressive causes.'' Since the late 1980s, the Sandlers used their wealth to finance a variety of nonprofit organizations, including Human Rights Watch, the American Civil Liberties Union and Acorn, the grass-roots organizers. They helped found the Center for Responsible Lending, where they are among the largest benefactors. They are also among the very few philanthropists in the country who finance basic scientific research, at the University of California at San Francisco. And they have set up nonprofits to conduct research into parasitic diseases and asthma. In 2003, they started the Center for American Progress, which is intended to be a liberal counterweight to the heavyweight policy centers of the right, like the Heritage Foundation and the Cato Institute. So far, the Sandlers have given around $20 million to the center. 
 All this they have done relatively quietly. Though hardly without ego, the Sandlers nonetheless shun the kind of publicity that accrues to such better-known philanthropists as George Soros and Bill Gates; indeed, the Center for American Progress is sometimes labeled a Soros-financed operation, even though the liberal financier has very little to do with it. And for years, the Sandlers did their philanthropy more or less out of their back pocket, since they were still running Golden West. 
 But in October 2006, with both of them in their mid-70s, they sold Golden West to Wachovia for $25 billion, reaping $2.4 billion from their stake in the company. They quickly put $1.4 billion into the small foundation they had been using to make their donations, which suddenly made the Sandler Foundation one of the 30 largest in the country. (The Sandlers, who oversee the foundation with three other board members, plan to put the rest of their money into the foundation eventually.) Then they moved into a small suite of offices in downtown San Francisco, hired minimal staff -- the Sandlers hate bureaucracy -- and got down to the business of giving away their fortune. Starting with, of all things, journalism. 
 ''They told me they were thinking about spending $10 million a year on investigative journalism,'' Steiger recalls. The Sandlers didn't know precisely what they wanted to do, but they knew they wanted to do something big. ''They said they were talking to a bunch of people, soliciting ideas,'' Steiger says. ''What advice would I give them?''
 Steiger drew up a proposal for a nonprofit that would employ around 25 reporters and editors and would conduct the kind of ambitious investigations that only a handful of the country's most prominent news organizations do as a matter of course. Although the Sandlers solicited plenty of other ideas besides Steiger's, his was the one they loved. They told Steiger that they would finance it, but only if he would run it. After a little soul-searching, Steiger agreed. ProPublica -- as it is called -- opened its doors in early January and in recent weeks has made its first few hires and named a star-studded advisory board (which includes Jill Abramson, a managing editor of The New York Times). It intends to begin producing investigative articles by the summer and then give its biggest exposes, free, to major news outlets like ''60 Minutes.'' Although there have been nonprofit investigative efforts in the past, nobody has ever proposed a model quite like this before. 
 Like most people outside the Bay Area, I'd never heard of the Sandlers before the announcement of ProPublica. But as I quickly came to realize, its creation was a classic Sandler foray. They chose a path -- investigative journalism -- that few other philanthropists had trod. Rather than give money to someone who approached them, they did the approaching. Rather than finance an organization that already existed, they started their own outfit. They found a star to run it. They seemed almost to relish the thought that they risked failure with this new, unproven model of journalism, though if truth be told, they don't think they'll fail. And they gave a lot of money -- $30 million for the first three years, with the expectation of continuing that commitment, if not more, for years to come. It's hard for philanthropists to make a big difference if they're not willing to spend some serious money, the Sandlers say.
 On one level Herb and Marion Sandler are part of the new wave of philanthropists that Matthew Bishop of The Economist calls ''Philanthrocapitalists'': wealthy entrepreneurs who are applying to philanthropy the same principles that made them successful businesspeople. They make big bets, demand results, take risks, want some control over how their money is spent and so on. The quintessential philanthrocapitalist, of course, is Gates, but many others are now following his lead, trying to forge a new kind of activist philanthropy. Even among the philanthrocapitalists, though, the Sandlers stand out. Herb, in particular, can sound nearly contemptuous about how other philanthropies go about their business. Mainly, it seems, they don't do it the way he and Marion do.
 But what makes them so sure their way is better?
 It starts with outrage,'' Herb Sandler said. ''You go a little crazy when power takes advantage of those without power. It could be political corruption -- ''
 ''Or subprime lending,'' Marion interrupted.
 ''The story of subprime is worse than anyone has written so far,'' Herb said, shaking his head in dismay.
 ''It is,'' Marion said, nodding in agreement.
 We were sitting around a table in Herb's office talking about what motivated them to put some of their fortune into investigative journalism. But they could have been talking about much of their giving over the years. To listen to the Sandlers is to be in the presence of the kind of proud, righteous liberals who went out of fashion a long time ago. Dispassion and irony, the twin shields of the modern age, are not part of their makeup.
 For the most part, Herb did the talking. Sitting across from him, Marion was knitting a red scarf (knitting during meetings turns out to be one of her trademarks), which didn't prevent her from interrupting him when she wanted to add something. This she did often; invariably Herb would stop talking and defer to her as soon as she began to chime in. Even in their most animated back-and-forth, though, they never disagreed. During the decades they ran Golden West, they had, in theory, distinct roles: Herb was the chief executive and strategist, while Marion ran marketing and ''everything having to do with the consumer,'' according to Steve Daetz, who is now the executive vice president of the Sandler Foundation. In reality, though, they consulted on everything, and it was often impossible to know where Herb's thoughts ended and hers began. 
 Herb Sandler was born poor on the Lower East Side of New York; in the 1950s, he was an assistant counsel on the Waterfront Commission, which famously fought crimes in the port of New York and New Jersey. Marion Sandler came from Maine, where her family ran a hardware and plumbing-supply store. By the time they met -- in the Hamptons -- she was on Wall Street. Shortly after they married in 1961, they moved to California and then bought Golden West for $3.8 million.
 There is no question that the Sandlers had a gift for banking. They ran Golden West as if it were the family store, which, to them, it was. They sidestepped the S.&L. crisis of the 1980s because, among other things, they did not make the imprudent loans that hurt so many others. ''They were careful about everything,'' says Shelby Davis, the founder of Davis Selected Advisers, Golden West's biggest shareholder after the Sandlers themselves. ''They were frugal. They paid attention to risk management. And they focused on expense management, so they could pass on the savings to their customers.''
 They also absolutely reveled in doing things their way, and over time, they became convinced that their way was the right way. There was some self-righteous nose-thumbing to this: occasionally Herb Sandler would testify before Congress against bank practices that outraged him. But they also cared a lot about surrounding themselves with strong, self-confident managers and giving them responsibility. They weren't afraid of trying things the industry had never tried before. Though they rarely acquired other S.&L.'s, when they did, they undertook a tremendous amount of due diligence. And certainly their track record would seem to justify their confidence in their approach: during their tenure, Golden West's stock rose at an annual rate of 19 percent, a remarkable long-term record.
 That kind of success also breeds the belief that what worked making you rich can be applied elsewhere. And so it was with the Sandlers, when in the late 1980s they started turning their attention to philanthropy.
 In 1988, Herb's brother, Leonard, a New York appellate court judge, died at age 62. Herb and Marion wanted to memorialize him in some way. Many philanthropists would have done so by building a wing on a hospital and having his name attached to it. But as with most of the new philanthrocapitalists, that didn't interest the Sandlers. Because Leonard Sandler had always been passionate about human rights -- as had Herb and Marion -- they decided to find a human rights group to support. They settled on Human Rights Watch, to which they have since donated, in the aggregate, around $30 million, making them one of the organization's largest donors.
 What was it about Human Rights Watch that attracted them? To the Sandlers, it was the model of a well-run nonprofit. It was effective. It didn't waste money. It issued meticulous reports that tracked its results. And it was run at the time by Aryeh Neier, whom the Sandlers trusted. (Neier now runs Soros's Open Society Institute.) In other words, it was run on the same set of principles as Golden West Financial.
 And how did they come to that conclusion? Because they did at least as much research into human rights organizations as they did when they were thinking about making an S.&L. acquisition. And so began their pattern. 
 ''They are keenly interested in the management of nonprofits, and they are struck by how badly managed most of them are,'' says Chuck Lewis, the founder of the Center for Public Integrity, an investigation-oriented nonprofit that got a few small grants from the Sandlers a few years ago. ''They have almost a fetish about it. They have an absolute infatuation with focusing on management. Who are the leaders? What is their background? Is it getting bigger or smaller? They rigorously chew over what they are about to do, much more than others do.''
 So that's one part of their philanthrocapitalist approach: they want their money to go to organizations they feel are well run and led by people they can count on to keep them that way. They want some control. This is true, it turns out, even when they're not the biggest donors. Lewis, for instance, had been running the center for about 12 years when the Sandlers showed up and made a relatively small grant. ''Chuck was a terrific leader,'' Herb recalls. But the Sandlers felt the center needed a better management structure, and so they began working with him on that. When Lewis decided a few months later that the time had come for him to leave, the Sandlers were furious and took his departure as a betrayal. ''We had put in an enormous amount of effort,'' Marion says. For his part, Lewis felt he should be able to quit without giving the Sandlers advance notice and was angered by their reaction. There were hurt feelings all around. ''They are high-maintenance donors,'' Lewis says now.
 Not every grantee feels that way, though. ''They are not micromanagers,'' insists Dr. Jim McKerrow, who runs the Sandler Center for Basic Research in Parasitic Diseases at U.C.S.F. ''But at the same time, they want to see how their money is being used, which is why they are opposed to endowments. In my case, they investigated not just what we were doing but me personally. I would get calls from colleagues, saying they had talked to the Sandlers.'' Now that he has passed muster, ''we get the money every year,'' McKerrow says. ''But I don't have to justify a day-to-day budget. Or even a quarterly budget. They give me the money, and they say we trust you to use it correctly. Their commitment by the end of a 10-year period will be $20 million.'' 
 Hence, the next part of their philanthrocapitalist approach: if you're not satisfied with what's out there, then you start your own nonprofit. Or at least that's how the Sandlers approach it. ''We were businesspeople,'' Marion says. ''We're not afraid of start-ups.'' Herb adds, ''We look for big holes we can fill,'' and sometimes that means beginning something new. The Sandlers' approach to asthma is one good example: they began looking into asthma research because Marion suffers from the disease and soon came to the belief that the field was stagnant, while the disease, especially in inner cities, was increasing. So rather than give their money to existing research, they started the Sandler Program for Asthma Research, designed to ferret out scientists from other disciplines who might have new ideas and could be drawn into the field with the Sandlers' money. 
 Similarly, when they decided to finance progressive ideas, they concluded that the one way to do it was to start their own Washington policy center. Up went the Center for American Progress, which is run by John Podesta, the former White House chief of staff in the Clinton administration. 
 It is hard to know, of course, how much of a difference these efforts will make. As Bishop points out, ''You can't simplistically take a business model into the philanthropic world and expect it to work every time.'' The parasitic disease center has a drug in preclinical trials, which is the probably the single most tangible result of their efforts to date. ''If that drug proves out,'' Herb says, ''that alone would justify all our philanthropy so far.''
 But other areas are more amorphous. Will the Center for American Progress really change the tenor of American politics? It might, but it might not. For all their talk, the Sandlers are aware that results are often difficult to define, much less measure. In effect, he and Marion are hoping for success rather than demanding it -- which is about the best they can do.
 ProPublica will offer its own test for the Sandlers' approach to philanthropy. In the newspaper business, a good story that exposes wrongdoing is something to be proud of, quite apart from whether it produces change or puts someone in jail. But it is clear that the Sandlers have a larger vision for what their new organization will accomplish. ''They used to tell me that they weren't really interested in investigative journalism per se,'' Lewis says. ''But they saw it as a way to make the world a better place.''
 Lowell Bergman, a New York Times and ''Frontline'' contributor who has long been friends with the Sandlers, says much the same thing. ''Herb doesn't like crooks, liars, predatory lenders and lots of other people that you and I wouldn't like,'' he says. ''He would like to put them out of business and throw them in jail.'' 
 What the Sandlers want, clearly, is investigative journalism that leads to change in public policy or finds, as Herb put it to me, ''the next Enron.'' (''Get the bastards,'' he said to me excitedly at another point.) Other people who talked to the Sandlers when they were first soliciting ideas say that they mused about having the organization engage lobbyists to push Congress to make changes after an expose ran or have journalists testify before Congress. Thanks, perhaps, to Steiger, they are no longer saying that; they have come to understand the importance of journalistic neutrality. Indeed, it is not unlikely that ProPublica's reporters will choose to go after a target on the left side of the political spectrum, especially if Democrats become the party in power in November. The Sandlers say they're fine with that. But what if the stories die on the vine as sometimes happens? What if the big media outfits like The Times or ''60 Minutes,'' which have their own investigative staffs and tend to be proprietary about their work, decline to run ProPublica's exposes? Will they be fine with that as well?
 There is, when you get down to it, something both hubristic and admirable about the Sandlers' approach to philanthropy. They are not burdened by doubt. They are not afraid of making mistakes. They really do want to make a difference with their money -- and they want to spend as much of it as they can while they are still around to watch how it is used.
 Which is a problem, given that they gave away only $75 million last year. ''We need to get our spending up to between $200 and $250 million a year,'' Herb said with a sigh the last time I spoke to him. 
 Still, don't call them. They'll call you. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PRIVATE FUNDS, PUBLIC PURPOSE: Private foundations -- independent grant-making organizations, typically associated with a single individual or family -- have long been a significant source of financing for many causes. (Source: Foundation center) (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN STEPHENS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (87%); LIBERALISM (87%); FOUNDATIONS (86%); CHARITIES (86%); LAYOFFS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); RETIREMENT AGE (70%); MANDATORY RETIREMENT (70%); SCIENCE FUNDING (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (64%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (63%); SCIENCE NEWS (63%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (63%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (56%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FOUNDATION CENTER (59%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (54%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (54%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%)

PERSON: HERB SANDLER (89%); BILL GATES (50%); GEORGE SOROS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



240 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: The Unstudied Art of Interrogation

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 HOW do you get a terrorist to talk? Despite the questioning of tens of thousands of captives in Iraq and Afghanistan in the last six years, and a high-decibel political battle over torture, experts say there has been little serious research to answer that crucial question.
 The Bush administration has yet to fill the void, instead getting enmeshed in a defense of waterboarding -- which the Central Intelligence Agency says it has not used in five years but which critics have seized on as a powerful symbol of how not to conduct war. And Congress, for its part, has skipped over the question in passing a bill (knowing that it would be vetoed by President Bush) that bans harsh interrogations but requires the C.I.A. to use only the tactics listed in the Army's playbook. 
 Certainly the debate is rich in emotion, with each side claiming the moral heights: You approve torture! You're coddling terrorists! But the arguments have been scant on science to back them up.
 ''We don't have any idea -- other than anecdote or moral philosophy -- what really works,'' said Benjamin Wittes of the Brookings Institution, author of ''Law and the Long War: The Future of Justice in the Age of Terror,'' set to be published in June. 
 There is the Army Field Manual 2-22.3, officially titled ''Human Intelligence Collector Operations.'' It eschews coercion and instead offers general advice on behavior (''People tend to want to talk when they are under stress and respond to kindness and understanding during trying circumstances''). It offers 19 approaches to interrogation that Congress wants the C.I.A. to stick to, including Mutt and Jeff, or good cop, bad cop; We Know All, in which the interrogator pretends merely to be confirming details of a story he knows already; Rapid-Fire Questioning, to produce contradictions that can then be challenged; Ego Up, in which flattery produces a bond; and False Flag, in which an American interrogator poses as one from another nation. The principles are familiar to anyone who's watched enough police procedurals.
 But the manual's inherited wisdom has not been updated to reflect decades of corporate analysis of how to influence consumers. Behavioral economists have dissected decisionmaking, and academic psychologists have studied political persuasion, but their lessons have not informed the interrogator's art either. Nor has there been a systematic effort to analyze the successes and blunders of the interrogations carried out since the attacks of 2001.
 Steven M. Kleinman, a colonel in the Air Force reserve and a veteran interrogator in Iraq and elsewhere, says the government spends billions on spy satellites but almost nothing on studying interrogation. This is true, he said, despite a broad consensus that interrogation might be the best source of information on an elusive, low-tech, stateless foe like Al Qaeda. 
 ''We need to bring scientific standards for interrogation to the same level of sophistication that we bring to satellite imagery and intercepting communications,'' said Mr. Kleinman, who has studied the American interrogation programs used for high-level German and Japanese prisoners during World War II, which he judges superior to those developed since 2001.
 Both Mr. Wittes and Mr. Kleinman occupy a middle ground of sorts in the standoff between Congress and the White House. They are outspoken opponents of the harshest methods used by the C.I.A. in 2002 and 2003. But they also argue that the Congressional bill imposing the Army's methods would make bad policy in the long run by stifling creativity and deterring serious study of a critical subject. 
 Mr. Kleinman said he envisioned a new intelligence agency or subagency devoted solely to interrogation -- sponsoring research, conducting training and building a team of sophisticated interrogators with linguistic and psychological skills. He speaks of creating a high-level interrogation center in the United States where settings could be customized for a particular suspect, Hollywood-style, ''whether it's a Bedouin tent or a suite at the Waldorf.''
 ''The overriding principle should be: Make it as easy as possible for someone to cooperate with you,'' he said. ''If we want someone to re-create in minute detail something that happened three years ago, how can we help them remember?''
 Mr. Kleinman said such a center would be wired for video and audio recording, in part to assure that interrogators follow the rules but also to let analysts with various kinds of expertise return to the suspect's exact words and body language.
 In a quiet effort to shift public talk from the past (waterboarding) to the future, a panel of experts, named by the Intelligence Science Board, which advises the intelligence agencies, has been pressing the administration to begin research on identifying the most effective, humane ways of questioning terrorist suspects. Robert A. Fein, a Harvard psychologist who heads the group, made such a presentation to 70 officials at the White House in January. According to people who have heard his talks, Dr. Fein, who declined to comment for this article, is concerned that even the word ''interrogation'' is tainted by torture. He uses the term ''intelligence interviewing'' for the skills he promotes.
 All the talk of comfortable conditions, helping terrorists remember and preserving sessions on videotape stands in almost comic contrast to the C.I.A.'s approach in 2002, which resorted to exposure to heat and cold, bombardment with noise, sleep deprivation and waterboarding. 
 A C.I.A. spokesman, Paul Gimigliano, said the agency's methods ''have proven to be very effective, producing information that has led to the capture of terrorists and the disruption of their operations.'' All the methods were lawful, he said, noting that the program ''has evolved over time.''
 The argument against the use of pain or physical torture is practical as well as moral. From the Spanish Inquisition to Pol Pot's Cambodia, brutal interrogations have been used to force confessions, often without regard to truth. 
 The government stopped sponsoring interrogation research in the 1970s, after Congressional investigators uncovered gruesome accounts of ''mind control'' experiments with drugs like LSD. In the polarized atmosphere of the waterboarding debate, it remains to be seen whether Congress or the public will endorse a carefully regulated program to find new ways of persuading people to give up their secrets.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: YES, GO ON: In film noir like ''Knock on Any Door,'' in 1949, they knew how to make people talk.(PHOTOGRAPH BY COLUMBIA PICTURES/PHOTOFEST) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); ARMIES (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (77%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ESPIONAGE (71%); AIR FORCES (71%); VETO (70%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (68%); WRITERS (66%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



241 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: Datebook

BYLINE: By HILARY HOWARD

 BODY:
 New York
 Robert De Niro, below, with Jane Rosenthal and Craig Hatkoff, started the Tribeca Film Festival in 2001, following the 9/11 attacks that devastated Lower Manhattan. The festival (www.tribecafilmfestival.org) has helped revitalize downtown and has grown into one of the country's top film events. This year's festival will show about 125 feature films, including the premiere of ''Baby Mama,'' starring Tina Fey and Amy Poehler. It will also include free outdoor screenings at the World Financial Center Plaza from April 24 to 26; a family street fair on May 3; and sports film marathons on April 27 and May 3. Single tickets are $15 for evening and weekend screenings and $8 for weekday and late-night shows. Packages are available. 
 Washington
 The 42nd annual Smithsonian Folklife Festival (www.folklife.si.edu/festival/2008) is set for June 25 to 29 and July 2 to 6. The free event takes place on the National Mall between Seventh and 14th Streets from 11 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., with some evening concerts and dance parties beginning at 6 p.m. This year's three themes are ''A Celebration of TexasMusic, Food and Wine,'' ''Bhutan: Land of the Thunder Dragon,'' and ''NASA: 50 Years and Beyond.'' Events include performances of blues, gospel and Tejano music, and demonstrations of zorig chusum, Bhutan's 13 traditional arts and crafts. Also, masked dance performances that are typical of sacred Bhutanese festivals will be presented. In celebration of NASA's 50th anniversary, there will be exhibits and oral history and lecture sessions led by astronomers, astronauts, engineers and others. Texan culinary traditions that will be featured include artisanal winemaking and barbecue cook-offs. 
 Perry, Ga.
 The largest RV festival in the world, simply known as the Rally (www.therally.com), takes place March 14 to 17. Last year, about 10,000 participants parked about 4,500 RVs in this small Southern town for a weekend of camping, entertainment and socializing. This year, over 300 companies, including Ford, Winnebago and Fleetwood, are organizing exhibits, and Frankie Valli is scheduled to perform. Admission for two: $349 (with electric hook-up) or $169 (dry camping); or $69 a person (no RV parking).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (92%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FILM (90%); CALENDARS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (88%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CAMPING (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); DANCE (71%); WINERIES (65%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%); HISTORY (64%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (58%); ECONOMIC NEWS (58%)

PERSON: ROBERT DE NIRO (73%); TINA FEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (90%); BHUTAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



242 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Income and Happiness: An Imperfect Link

BYLINE: By ROBERT H. FRANK. 
Robert H. Frank is an economist at the Johnson School of Management at Cornell University. E-mail: rhfrank@nytimes.com

 BODY:
DOES money buy happiness? This week, Senator Byron Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, will join a long line of people who have taken serious stabs at trying to answer that thorny question. He will hold a hearing exploring whether traditional economic measures like per-capita income accurately capture people's sense of well-being. 
 This has long been a contested issue. Although everyone concedes that income is an imperfect welfare measure, conservative economists have tended to emphasize its virtues while liberals have been more likely to stress its shortcomings. 
 The debate is not just of philosophical interest; it also has important policy implications. Recent research findings offer support for specific arguments on both sides. Mounting evidence suggests, however, that per-capita income is a less reliable measure of well-being when income inequality has been rising rapidly, as it has in recent decades.
 First, a few words about how economists measure income: The most commonly used metric is gross domestic product, the annual market value of all final goods and services produced within a country. Per-capita G.D.P. is simply G.D.P. divided by total population. Measured in 2000 dollars, it was $32,833 in 1998 and $37,832 in 2006. The real value of goods and services bought by Americans in 2006 was thus about 15 percent higher than it was in 1998. In purely economic terms, does that mean we were roughly 15 percent better off in 2006? 
 Not necessarily. To measure changes in the standard of living over time, it is necessary to adjust for inflation. But as conservatives stress, traditional inflation adjustments may overstate actual inflation because they fail to account adequately for quality improvements. 
 For example, although the current Honda Civic, a compact car, is about the same size as the company's midsize Accord from 1998, it is in almost every respect far superior and sells for only slightly more than the earlier Accord. Because inflation adjustments for auto prices are based on changes for corresponding models, the result is to overstate increases in ownership costs -- thereby causing per-capita G.D.P. to understate the corresponding increases in our standard of living.
 Quality changes are not always positive, by the way. If you had a question about your health insurance in 1998, you could talk to a real person; today, you may find yourself in an endless phone loop. On balance, however, most consumers would probably prefer today's overall menu of goods and services in the economy to that of a decade ago.
 Inflation adjustments may introduce further bias if people rearrange their spending patterns when prices rise unevenly. When beef prices rise twice as fast as chicken prices, people typically eat less beef and more chicken. Traditional inflation measures fail to take such adjustments fully into account -- again, causing per-capita G.D.P. growth to understate increases in the standard of living.
 Liberals, for their part, have long objected that many expenditures included in G.D.P. reflect reductions, not increases, in our standard of living. When crime rates increase, people spend more on burglar alarms, purchases that clearly do not signal improved living standards. A similar objection applies when tasks once performed at home are now more often bought in the marketplace -- as when time-pressed parents substitute meals at fast-food restaurants for home-cooked meals.
 The bias that results from the inclusion of such expenditures in G.D.P. works in the opposite direction from the bias caused by inaccurate inflation adjustment. For all anyone knows, the two distortions may roughly offset each other. 
 But there is a much bigger problem, one that challenges the very foundation of the presumed link between per-capita G.D.P. and economic welfare. That's the assumption, traditional in economic models, that absolute income levels are the primary determinant of individual well-being.
 This assumption is contradicted by consistent survey findings that when everyone's income grows at about the same rate, average levels of happiness remain the same. Yet at any given moment, the pattern is that wealthy people are happier, on average, than poor people. Together, these findings suggest that relative income is a much better predictor of well-being than absolute income.
 In the three decades after World War II, the relationship between well-being and income distribution was not a big issue, because incomes were growing at about the same rate for all income groups. Since the mid-1970s, however, income growth has been confined almost entirely to top earners. Changes in per-capita G.D.P., which track only changes in average income, are completely silent about the effects of this shift.
 When measuring the economic welfare of the typical family, the natural focus is on median, or 50th percentile, family earnings. Per-capita G.D.P. has grown by more than 85 percent since 1973, while median family earnings have grown by less than one-fifth that amount. Changing patterns of income growth have thus caused per-capita G.D.P. growth to vastly overstate the increase in the typical family's standard of living during the past three decades.
 Some economists have advanced an even stronger claim -- that there is no link, at least in developed countries, between absolute spending and well-being. Recent work suggests that this is especially true for spending categories in which the link between well-being and relative consumption is strongest. For instance, when the rich spend more on larger mansions or more elaborate coming-of-age parties for their children, the apparent effect is merely to redefine what counts as adequate. 
 Evidence also suggests that higher spending at the top instigates expenditure cascades that pressure middle-income families to spend in mutually offsetting ways. Thus, when all spend more on interview suits, the same jobs go to the same applicants as before. 
 Yet in many other categories, greater levels of absolute income clearly promote well-being, even in the richest societies. The economist Benjamin Friedman has found that higher rates of G.D.P. growth are associated with increased levels of social tolerance and public support for the economically disadvantaged. Richer countries also typically have cleaner environments and healthier populations than their poorer counterparts.
 THAT per-capita G.D.P. is an imperfect index of economic welfare is not news. The lesson of recent work is that its weaknesses are more serious than we previously realized. 
 And it is an especially uninformative metric when income inequality has been rising sharply, as it has been in recent decades. A society that aspires to improve needs a better measure of what counts as progress. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); FOOD PRICES (86%); PRICE CHANGES (86%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); BEEF (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POULTRY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%)

PERSON: BYRON DORGAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



243 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Corzine Plan To Cut Jobs Could Pinch State Services

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
Gov. Jon S. Corzine's austere budget proposal calls for cutting 3,000 jobs from the state payroll, but it is a payroll that has 1,879 fewer full-time employees than when he took office two years ago.
 The shrinking payroll, accomplished through attrition after the governor enacted a hiring freeze in early 2006, has been largely invisible to residents, because it was confined to certain pockets of the state's sprawling government.
 The Department of Environmental Protection, for example, has lost 221 of its 3,219 workers. Builders seeking permits say the process has gone from slow to downright punitive, and environmentalists grumble that many state parks are dirty and poorly maintained. 
 Nonprofit agencies say the Department of Corrections -- which is down 304 clerical workers -- now often takes a month rather than a week to complete criminal background checks on prospective employees. 
 Now, the governor and leaders of state workers' unions warn, comes the painful part.
 The Corzine administration's new round of cuts will probably lead to more widespread and visible disruptions: the closing of some state parks, the elimination of evening and weekend hours at the Motor Vehicles Commission, and slower service in unemployment offices. 
 ''There's a point where we can target the cuts, get more efficiency out of people and minimize the impact,'' said David Rousseau, the acting treasurer. ''But where we are now, all the easy stuff is gone. We're just going to have to do less, and people are going to feel it.''
 On the state's most recent payroll, there were 78,435 people, in addition to about 3,000 who work for authorities that run the New Jersey Turnpike, other highways and bridges, according to the state's Office of Management and Budget.
 Mr. Corzine's intention is to reduce the work force to the 75,000 positions that were on the payroll in 2002. But his aides argue that reaching that level will require significant improvements in efficiency because in 2004, the deprivatization of the motor vehicles department added 3,000 positions, and 900 additional child-welfare caseworkers were hired under a court order. 
 Mr. Corzine relied mostly on attrition to cut 1,800 jobs during his first two years in office, with effects varying by department. 
 In the attorney general's office, which lost more than 140 lawyers and 105 investigators, the remaining staff has to work longer hours to handle heavier caseloads. 
 The Division of State Police cut 77 civilian and 35 uniformed positions, according to the state, but Detective David Jones, head of the State Troopers Fraternal Association, said there had been minimal effect on patrols or investigations. Detective Jones said that the force, with about 3,000 troopers and 1,440 civilians, managed to absorb the job cuts by having supervisors perform the training, clerical and other inside-the-office duties of the workers who were not replaced.
 Yet in other areas where the public meets state government, the cuts have been more noticeable. 
 The state Department of Labor has shrunk by more than 9 percent, to 3,425 workers from 3,753. Rather than reduce the number of people assigned to inspections or occupational safety, the department cut the labor and work force development unit, which includes the clerks staffing the counters at unemployment offices.
 At the One Stop Career Center in Trenton last week, Kareema Leary said she had waited more than an hour before a clerk helped her get the paperwork she needed. 
 ''They make you sit there,'' she said, ''then you have to talk to someone behind the counter, then you have to get on the telephone to talk to someone else, then you have to sit there again. It's ridiculous.'' 
 The Department of Corrections staff is down to 9,241 from 9,545 two years ago, according to the treasurer's office, and because nearly all of those reductions involved civilians rather than uniformed officers, a backlog of paperwork has developed. 
 James Hemm, who runs an organization that oversees halfway houses for newly released prison inmates, said that the delays in getting background checks for job applicants had cost him several qualified candidates.
 ''People can't wait around forever,'' said Mr. Hemm, executive director of the New Jersey Association on Corrections. ''So the Corrections Department, and our organization, wind up doing the same task two or three times.'' 
 Cuts at the Department of Environmental Protection, where the work force has shrunk to 2,998 from 3,219, have led to complaints from both ends of the spectrum. 
 Environmentalists say the cuts have made it even harder for the department to monitor the 18,000 toxic waste sites across the state. (Lisa Jackson, the commissioner, said workers for site remediation were down 10 percent.) Builders, meanwhile, say that the slower permit process has created a drag on a business sector that is already struggling; their complaints have created a rift within the Corzine administration. 
 At a luncheon in New Brunswick on Tuesday sponsored by the National Association of Industrial and Office Properties, Joseph Doria, the community affairs commissioner, said that he favored an expedited permit process to ease the backlog and encourage development. Sitting a few feet away, Ms. Jackson appeared surprised by the proposal and later said she would oppose it. 
 Governor Corzine, who addressed the group later, suggested that he would seek a compromise to speed permits in certain areas, but not statewide. 
 As Mr. Corzine looks to trim jobs with a combination of buyouts and layoffs, a fierce lobbying battle is under way to determine how and where staffing should be reduced.
 Many Republicans contend that for all Mr. Corzine's talk about economizing, the state payroll can still be trimmed by hundreds, perhaps thousands, of jobs beyond the governor's stated goals. 
 Senator Gerald Cardinale, a Republican from Bergen County, has been particularly critical of the Board of Public Utilities. The board's staff has been reduced to 281 from 305 since 2006, but Mr. Cardinale contended that the agency has ''padded the payroll with patronage employees earning $1 million in annual salaries.'' 
 Union leaders, meanwhile, say that their workers are being unfairly singled out, and that staff cuts make great headlines but do little to save money. 
 A study by financial analysts at the Department of Transportation -- whose own payroll has been reduced to 3,592 from 3,909 under Governor Corzine -- found that New Jersey was paying consultants and private contractors 40 percent more to build and maintain roads and bridges than public employees. 
 ''It's head-count politics,'' said Jim Marketti, president of the Communications Workers of America Local 1032. ''The state could save $30 million, maybe $35 million, by hiring more public employees in D.O.T. because our people get paid a lot less than the contractors. But it looks better politically to lay people off.''
 Given the scale of the state's budget dilemma, the Corzine administration insists that drastic and sweeping cuts are essential. 
 ''It's clear that we have to reprioritize services and programs to find savings in every part of state government,'' said Mr. Rousseau, the acting treasurer. ''We aren't interested in actions that result in fruitless shuffling around in the departments. We will make cuts in costs and they will be permanent.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard Daul, 65, waiting to meet with a counselor in the Division of Pensions and Benefits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); STATE PARKS (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); LITIGATION (73%); LAWYERS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (69%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); CHILD WELFARE (60%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



244 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: LETTERS

 BODY:
Who Profits Most From Oil Profits?
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Exxon Mobil Needs a Hug'' (Everybody's Business, March 3), in which Ben Stein described how the company is owned mostly by ordinary Americans, whether as shareholders or through mutual funds and pension funds: 
 In the column, Mr. Stein asked which pensions or workers Senator Barack Obama, who took aim at Exxon Mobil in a recent speech, would like to deprive of that money. 
 But what of the hundreds of millions of people who actually purchase the products being sold by Exxon? Would it not be a greater benefit to these people if the profits were reduced a little bit? 
 And might I say that as a shareholder myself, the dividend, yielding 1.6 percent, is really not making me rich. As a matter of fact, one would need to own more than two shares to get a dividend big enough to buy a single gallon of gasoline.
 Adam Dulberg Massapequa, N.Y., March 3
 To the Editor:
 Ben Stein is correct when he says that Senator Barack Obama, in criticizing Exxon Mobil in a speech, did not note that many American workers depend on the performance of pension funds invested in blue-chip marketplace giants like the big oil companies. 
 Mr. Obama also said that we need a leader who will listen to Main Street and not just Wall Street. But the capital markets provide businesses on every Main Street in America with the funds they need to expand their operations and work forces. Wall Street is Main Street. Let a Democratic candidate publicly acknowledge this reality. That change would catch some attention.
 Margaret McGirr Greenwich, Conn., March 3
 To the Editor:
 The column doesn't consider how many Americans contribute to Exxon Mobil's profits, willingly or not. Every time I buy a loaf of bread or a can of tomatoes, part of the price I pay is the cost of the gasoline required to transport those products to the store. I also pay a share of the cost of transporting the tomatoes from the field to the processor, for transporting the material for the cans and labels to the factory, for transporting the waste products to the dump -- and on and on.
 Like most Americans, I don't own, either personally or through a mutual fund, any shares in Exxon Mobil, so I don't get any of that money back. We nonowners subsidize Exxon Mobil shareholders.
 Don Rice Columbus, Ohio, March 3
 To the Editor:
 The headline of the column said, ''Exxon Mobil Needs a Hug,'' but I would add that Ben Stein deserves a hug for his column. Like many of my colleagues, I spent my entire business career with Exxon. Today, this kind of loyalty between a company and its employees is viewed as almost old-fashioned -- but I was always proud to work for a company that I felt had high ethical standards, strove to be at the forefront of technology and treated shareholders, customers and employees fairly and with respect. 
 Today, some politicians would have you believe that being smarter, more efficient and more successful than your competition is a bad thing -- not the ingredient that made our free enterprise system the most powerful engine for progress, entrepreneurship and upward mobility the world has ever seen.
 George Hunter Bernardsville, N.J., March 2
 For Buyers, No Escape From a Housing Bubble
 To the Editor:
 Re ''How a Bubble Stayed Under the Radar'' (Economic View, March 2), in which Robert J. Shiller described a herd mentality in the recent path of the housing market:
 One point that should be made is that even if a buyer recognizes that housing in a given area is overpriced, most buyers do not have a lot of other options. All houses in desirable areas with good job markets and good schools have been overpriced for a long time, many of these areas have very little housing available for rent, and rentals were also overpriced and seemed like an even worse investment. 
 Given tax incentives to buy homes, and the phenomenal appreciation that occurred over the last decade, one would have had to have been extremely contrarian to have avoided entering the market.
 Susan Adler Walton-on-Thames, England, March 3

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (94%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (94%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



245 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; THE MONEY ISSUE; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 4501 words

HEADLINE: What Makes People Give?

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
David Leonhardt is an economics columnist for The Times and a staff writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
Not long after the 2004 presidential election, John List and Dean Karlan formed an unusual partnership, with the idea of teaching a little-known liberal group how to raise more money. Karlan, an economics professor at Yale who spent much of his time studying global poverty, was himself a liberal and disheartened by President Bush's re-election. He had given money to this particular group in the past. 
 List, however, was a political iconoclast who, if anything, tilted to the right. He taught economics at the University of Chicago, which can fairly be described as the center of conservative economic philosophy, and he had recently finished a stint as the environmental expert on President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers. When he and I were talking on the phone last month, he referred to Karlan, who is a friend of his, as ''a left-wing nut'' and then let out a laugh.
 But List's interest -- and, in truth, Karlan's main interest -- wasn't to help the liberal group get more money. It was to try to find an answer to a gnawing question: What makes people give their money away? 
 List and Karlan considered the usual answers (to make the world a better place, to see your name printed in the back of an annual report and the like) too pat, too simple -- and sometimes just wrong. Over the years, whenever one of them asked fund-raisers why they did what they did, the responses were vague and unimpressive. There didn't seem to be much empirical evidence to support the strategies employed by most fund-raisers. So the two economists wondered whether charities were wasting a lot of effort. 
 The two met a couple of years earlier and talked occasionally about matching gifts, which are a staple of fund-raising. Karlan told List about a $15 million ''challenge gift'' that an investment banker made to the University of Chicago back in the 1990s, with the stipulation that it would receive the money only if it persuaded other donors to give as well. People around campus, where Karlan was a student at the time, assumed that such a gift would work -- that it would cause other donors to give more than they originally planned -- but he wasn't so sure. And it turned out that this was just the sort of problem that List had a reputation for solving.
 Thirty-nine years old, with a boyish face, graying hair and the twang of an upper Midwesterner, List went to college at the University of Wisconsin-Stevens Point, helped by a golf scholarship, while driving trucks during the summer to make money. He became an economist, he told me, because he noticed that the economics professors at Stevens Point spent a lot of time playing golf. ''I came from a poor family, and I was thinking about being a stockbroker,'' List told me when I met him recently. ''When I saw those economists golfing, I thought, I want to do what they do.'' But a funny thing happened when he began taking economics classes: he liked them. After Stevens Point, he attended graduate school at the University of Wyoming and then began crisscrossing the country for a series of faculty jobs. By 2004, he had become known as a dedicated researcher -- a workaholic, even -- and was emerging as the star of a growing little corner of the field, the economics of philanthropy.
 A few days after Bush won re-election, Karlan got an idea. He e-mailed a fund-raiser at the liberal group -- which he and List have agreed to keep anonymous, as is common in academic research -- and explained that he wasn't just a donor. ''In my 'real' life,'' Karlan began, ''I am an economist who runs field experiments to learn what works and what does not in the world of social programs.'' He then proposed a field experiment, involving matching gifts, in which the group would learn how well they really work. ''Have you ever done something like this?'' Karlan asked. The group hadn't, and it quickly agreed to work with him and List.
 For a long time, philanthropy was mostly ignored by social scientists. It's not an especially large part of the economy, and most charities operate on a shoestring, without the resources to finance research projects. But this is starting to change. Americans gave $295 billion to charity in 2006, equal to 2.2 percent of the country's gross domestic product, up from about 1.8 percent from the mid-'70s to the mid-'90s, according to the Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University. Most philanthropy still comes in the form of small gifts, but there is also a growing group of donors, like Bill and Melinda Gates, who are interested in bringing some of the quantitative rigor of big business to philanthropy. 
 Academics, for their part, have come to realize that charities provide an excellent laboratory for studying human behavior, in part because so many of them are desperate for the kind of free-of-charge consulting Karlan was offering. When charities are designing their donor appeals, they often go by nothing more than a few rules of thumb, some of which may be profoundly insightful and others a good deal less so. ''I think some fund-raisers have developed terrific intuitions, passed on through the fraternity of fund-raisers,'' says Paul Brest, president of the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation in Menlo Park, Calif., which often works with charities. ''But a lot of the intuitions don't work. Look at how much junk mail you get.'' Matching gifts were another good example. People figured that they worked, because -- well, how could they not? They seem so sensible. 
 Late in 2004, List and Karlan started working on different solicitation letters for the liberal group. The letters were similar except for the part that mentioned (or didn't mention) a match. In one letter, sent to the control group, there was no match. Another letter said that a donor had agreed to match any gift, dollar for dollar. In a third, the match was increased to two to one, and in a fourth it was three to one. 
 Among fund-raisers, dollar-for-dollar matches are the norm, but larger ones are common, too. Public radio and the N.A.A.C.P. have both used two-to-one matches. Part of the $15 million gift to the University of Chicago that piqued Karlan's interest in the 1990s was set aside for a four-to-one match. ''Never underestimate the power of a challenge gift'' is what one standard textbook, ''Conducting a Successful Fundraising Program,'' advises, adding that ''a richer challenge greatly increases attractiveness.'' The economics are simple enough. A matching gift effectively reduces the cost of making a donation. Without a match, you would have to spend $400 to make your favorite charity $400 richer. With a three-to-one match in place, it would cost you only $100 to add $400 to the charity's coffers. 
 In addition to common sense, some of the earliest economic research on philanthropy supported the idea that matching gifts should make a big difference. In the 1970s, economists began studying the tax deduction for charitable giving, and they found that it clearly affected how much people gave. When tax rates were higher -- and deductions were thus more valuable -- people gave more. It seemed to follow that they would be equally rational about a match. When Karlan and List got their results, however, they realized that the conventional wisdom about matches was only partly right. The existence of a matching gift did very much matter. In their experiment, 2.2 percent of people who received the match offer made a donation, compared with only 1.8 percent of the control group. That may not seem like a big difference, but it is -- more than a 20 percent gap between the two response rates, which is certainly large enough to justify making the effort to solicit a hefty matching gift.
 But the size of the match in the experiment didn't have any effect on giving. Donors who received the offer of a one-to-one match gave just as often, and just as much, as those responding to the three-to-one offer. That was surprising, because a larger match is effectively a deeper discount on a person's gift. Yet in this case, the deeper discount didn't make an impact. It was as if Starbucks had cut the price of a latte to $2 and sales didn't increase.
 In early January, I met List for lunch in the warehouse district of New Orleans during a conference of academic economists. We spent the first part of the meal talking about sports, and I asked him whether he thought there might be a parallel between professional sports teams and charities. As Michael Lewis (a contributing writer for this magazine) explained in his 2003 best seller, ''Moneyball,'' baseball executives spent years clinging to beliefs that were simply false. Only recently, thanks to the emergence of young executives who insisted on looking at data, had some of the myths been exposed. The research on charitable giving is still in its early stages, but is it possible, I wondered, that fund-raising would also prove to be riddled with inefficiencies? Absolutely, List replied. ''I think most fund-raisers are doing this wrong.''
 The results of the matching-gift experiment provided List and Karlan with precisely the sort of subtlety that they hoped to uncover. It also spoke to that fundamental question about philanthropy: Why do people give? Is it really to make the world a better place, to give back to the community as a token of gratitude? Or is giving instead about something less grand, like seeing your name on a building, responding to peer pressure or simply feeling good about yourself? To put it bluntly, is charitable giving a high-minded form of consumption? 
 In the late 1980s, an economist named James Andreoni argued that the internal motives for giving were indeed more important than many people had acknowledged. He came up with a name for his idea -- the ''warm glow'' theory -- and it stuck. In the warm-glow view of philanthropy, people aren't giving money merely to save the whales; they're also giving money to feel the glow that comes with being the kind of person who's helping to save the whales. 
 This is less depressing than it may sound. For one thing, the charities are still getting the money, no matter what the donors' motives are, and many of them are putting it to good use. For another, the warm-glow theory means that philanthropy can be more than a zero-sum game. If giving were strictly rational, the announcement of a big donation might lead other people to give less to the cause; they might figure it no longer needs their money as much. Thanks to the warm glow, though, Warren Buffett's $31 billion gift to the Gates Foundation won't cause other people to think that they no longer need to help fight dysentery. If anything, Buffett's gift might make them more likely to make a donation. They can then have the sense that they're joining forces with someone else -- with Warren Buffett, no less -- and becoming part of a larger cause. 
 Andreoni's argument was a merely theoretical one, but the experiment by List and Karlan suggested that it was correct. Donors did not, in fact, seem to do a rational analysis of how they could best help promote liberalism. And there was one more layer to their results that made the findings even more striking. In blue states -- defined as those that voted for John Kerry -- even the existence of a matching gift had only a minor effect. It lifted the response rate by about 5 percent. In red states, though, a matching gift increased donations by about 60 percent. For isolated liberals living in states that had just voted for Bush's re-election, the glow that came from joining up with another liberal seemed to be much stronger. ''Giving is not about a calculation of what you are buying,'' Karlan said. ''It is about participating in a fight.'' It is about you as much as it about the effect of your gift. As much as fund-raisers say that they understand these mixed motivations, charities often continue to behave as if donors were automatons. Thus the existence of big matching gifts.
 Along similar lines, Jonathan Gruber, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has conducted a mischievous experiment on the relationship between religious giving and religious observance. His inspiration was a comment his father made after he was elected treasurer of his synagogue in New Jersey. ''Good,'' Gruber's father told him, with some amount of irony, ''now I don't have to go.'' Somebody thinking purely about the temple might have decided that the treasurer should attend services even more often than an ordinary congregant. After all, he would need to set an example as a community leader. But someone who wanted to attain a certain commitment level -- who wanted do enough to feel the warm glow of being involved in the life of the temple -- would consider regular attendance and synagogue duties to be substitutes for each other. 
 To see how typical his father was, Gruber dug into surveys that ask people about how they spend their money and their time. Sure enough, his dad was typical. When the tax code changed in the early 1990s and made the deduction for charitable giving more valuable, the average churchgoer gave more money -- and attended services less often. Gruber called his research paper ''Pay or Pray.''
 List likes to use another phrase to describe the larger phenomenon: impure altruism. It fits nicely with the recent explosion of academic research on the anomalies and irrationalities of life. The field is known as behavioral economics. It has shown, for example, that many people buy monthly memberships to health clubs even when paying individually for each visit would be much cheaper. Apparently, people imagine that the membership will inspire them to work out far more often than it really does. Behavioral economists don't question that people generally want to do what's best for themselves -- and probably what's best for their favorite cause, as well. But the world is a complicated place, full of psychological nuances that trip them up.
 Growing up in Sun Prairie, Wisc., List collected baseball cards. In high school, he somehow persuaded his girlfriend, Jennifer Einerson, to come along with him on weekends to visit sports-card shows around the Midwest. They both went to college at Stevens Point and continued going to the card shows, driving to Illinois or Minnesota or Iowa. List found that he could make a profit buying and selling cards, which gave him some extra income on top of the money he earned as a short-haul truck driver. (List's father is a truck driver, and his mother is a retired secretary.) More to the point, the card shows offered List his first glimpse into the inner workings of a market economy, with all of its rationalities and irrationalities.
 After graduate school at Wyoming, List took a job at the University of Central Florida, in Orlando. By this time, he and Jennifer were married (they now have five children), and they moved to Orlando. In each of his first four years at Central Florida, he won the award for best undergraduate economics teacher. He also coached the water-skiing team for two years -- leading it to an eighth-place finish at the 1999 national championships -- until the university president shut it down, temporarily, in order to spend more money on the football team. 
 Even setting aside his time as a coach, athlete and truck driver, List's background is highly unusual for an economist at the pinnacle of the field. In the Chicago economics department -- currently home to four Nobel winners -- most faculty members attended one of just a handful of top-notch graduate economics programs. List has broken the mold, and his background helps explain why he has been so open to getting his hands dirty in the real world. 
 Within the economics profession, the most exciting part of List's work isn't the road map it offers for charities. List happens to do his research on philanthropy, but what he's really doing is helping promote methods in social science that are well established in medical science -- real-world experiments relying on randomized trials. ''He's a real phenom,'' says Charles Clotfelter, a Duke University economist who did much of the early research on tax deductions. ''He's very creative. And this is a completely innovative area of economics.'' 
 For years, empirical economic research tended to come in one of two forms. Either economists gathered existing data and tried to tease out cause and effect with the help of statistical analysis, or they ran controlled laboratory experiments, which allow researchers to ask almost any question they want to ask. But lab experiments have an obvious drawback. They aren't especially realistic. If you put a college sophomore in a room, gave her $20 to spend and presented her with a series of pitches from hypothetical charities, she might behave very differently than when sitting on her sofa sorting through letters from actual organizations. ''I'd rather have a lab experiment than no evidence,'' Gruber says. ''But it's an artificial environment.'' Field experiments offer a way to bridge the gap. When designed well, they allow researchers to pick the questions they want to ask, while increasing the odds that the answers will be genuine. Some economists say List can sometimes be too dismissive of lab experiments, but they also maintain that he's right to push the discipline out into the field.
 At Central Florida, List found himself in charge of raising money for a new research center in environmental economics, and he decided to turn the task into an experiment. Working with David Reiley of the University of Arizona -- another pioneer of field experiments (who's now on leave to work for Yahoo) -- List set out to see whether donors cared about so-called seed money. Fund-raisers generally like to have raised a large portion of their ultimate goal, sometimes as much as 50 percent, before officially announcing a new campaign. This makes the goal, as well as the cause, seem legitimate. 
 To see whether the strategy made sense, List and Reiley wrote letters to potential donors saying that the university wanted to buy computers for a new environmental-research center. They varied the amount of money that supposedly had already been raised. In some letters, they put the amount in hand at $2,000, out of the $3,000 they needed for a given computer; in others, they said they had raised only $300 and still needed $2,700. The results were overwhelming. The more upfront money Central Florida claimed to have on hand, the more additional money it raised. When paired with the matching-gift research, the study suggests that seed money is a better investment for charities than generous matches.
 What got List noticed by Chicago, however, was an experiment with sports cards. Using data from card shows, he showed that traders became more rational -- less emotionally tied to the cards they owned -- as they accumulated more experience. The study fit right into the neoclassical ethos of the Chicago economics department, which holds that people are rational and that markets work. In the paper, he included a direct critique of a renowned study in behavioral economics that suggested people often hold on to an item they own (a house, for example) in the vain hope that its value will rise.
 But List doesn't align himself with the rationalists or the behaviorists; he says he simply follows his evidence to the logical conclusion. Tellingly, while he worked for the Bush administration, he found himself frustrated by its inflexibility, specifically its unwillingness to use market incentives to reduce carbon emissions. This year, his favorite candidate is Barack Obama. ''A lot of people ask me, 'What are you?' '' List told me. ''I'm just a field experimentalist. I gather data.'' 
 One theme to emerge from List's research, and that of his fellow economists, is that the conventional wisdom about giving tends to be mostly right and yet is still flawed in important ways. The study on matching gifts bore that out. Matches matter, but not for the obvious reasons and not in the obvious ways. Rachel Croson, an economist at the University of Texas at Dallas, found a similar pattern when she examined pledge drives by public radio stations.
 As any listener knows, these stations inundate potential givers with suggested donation levels during these drives. They may explicitly suggest a $50 gift, for example, or they may list a series of items -- a mug, a CD, a T-shirt -- that serve as thank-you gifts for specific donation levels. Each of these price points serves as a suggestion. When Croson asked how these price points were determined, ''it was really amazing to me to see how little science there was behind fund-raising,'' she says.
 So she and her co-author, Jen Shang, conducted an experiment in which listeners who called to make a pledge were casually told that another caller had made a gift. But the amount of the gift varied -- in some cases, $75 (which was the median gift size for that station), in others, $300. Not surprisingly, perhaps, the callers who heard about the $75 gift didn't seem to be affected by it. They gave the same amount, on average, as callers usually gave. But the people who heard about the $300 gift gave more -- about 12 percent more on average -- having apparently been inspired, or shamed, into being more generous. 
 Croson and Shang then tried a variation on the experiment at a different station, using $600 and $1,000 gifts instead. And here came the rub: the callers who heard about a $1,000 gift actually gave less than those who were told about a $600 gift. To most callers, a $1,000 donation sounded too large to be relevant. They thought to themselves, as Croson explained, ''That couldn't possibly be me.'' There was a sweet spot for a radio station, but a steep penalty for overshooting it.
 The economics of fund-raising are filled with such contextual nuances. In a door-to-door fund-raising drive, List found that men gave more money when the person asking for the gift was an attractive woman. (You knew this was coming: women weren't affected by beauty, whether the solicitor was male or female.) Yet this ploy had no lasting value to the charity. When the besotted men were asked for a follow-up gift on the phone or by mail, they gave no more than people who were greeted by an average-looking fund-raiser. Offering a lottery, on the other hand, worked in both the short term and the long term. People gave more money when they were told their donation made them eligible for a prize, and they gave more the next time they were asked too.
 To those of us outside academia, the notion that men often try to impress attractive women may not count as an intellectual breakthough, but for fund-raisers desperate for guidance, the research on charitable giving is a gift in itself. And it often does contain real insight. Last year, Princeton University held a conference at which List, Croson, Andreoni and others who study charitable giving got together with fund-raisers from Africare, the National MS Society and elsewhere. I spoke with three people who listened to the academics present their work, and all said they found it invigorating. ''We all have different strategies and takes on how to reach out to potential donors,'' said Nicole Eley of Africare, which sends development and relief aid to Africa. ''Many of them work, some don't -- it's a trial-and-error process.'' It's easy to imagine that the academic research may eventually serve as the building blocks for a unified theory of how to raise money.
 For those of us who aren't putting together fund-raising appeals, the real importance of these studies is the glimpse they offer into the human mind, and the clues about how to make the world work a little bit better. As it happens, Richard Thaler, one of the behavioral economists List criticized in his sports-card paper, and Cass Sunstein, a widely published law professor, are coming out with a book next month called ''Nudge.'' It's a manifesto for using the recent behavioral research to help people, as well as government agencies, companies and charities, make better decisions.
 One of their ideas directly echoes the experiment for the liberal group that List and Karlan did in 2004. Thaler and Sunstein point out that people who save money through a 401(k) often set aside exactly the amount of money that triggers a matching contribution from their employer, no matter how big or small the match. When an employer matches the first 6 percent of salary dollar for dollar, many people will save 6 percent. But they often save just as much when the match is only 50 cents on the dollar. It follows, then, that if a company wanted to nudge its employees to save a little more, it could lift the ceiling for the match while reducing the amount of the match. For instance, it could match up to 10 percent of an employee's salary, at 30 cents on the dollar. Because the Treasury Department and Congress are involved in setting 401(k) rules -- and the because the country would be better off if people saved more -- there is a good argument that the government should encourage companies to make just such a change.
 When you think about these findings for long enough, you start to realize they may have another implication as well, one that circles right back to philanthropy. Each year, the federal government subsidizes charitable donations to the tune of about $50 billion a year. That is the value of tax deductions that the government gives out in exchange for donations. It's a huge amount of money, more than enough to pay for, say, universal preschool for all 3- and 4-year-olds.
 There are several reasons to question whether a subsidy of this size is such a good idea. Deductions of any kind complicate the tax code. This particular deduction disproportionately benefits the affluent, who have done quite well on their own in recent years. It also adds to the government's long-term budget deficit. In an ideal world, the government would figure out a way to recoup some of this money without causing charitable giving to plummet. Philanthropies would be able to continue doing most of the good work they're now doing without being quite such a drain on the federal budget.
 Think back now to the central findings of List's and Karlan's research. People aren't always clearheaded about money; sometimes the existence of a financial incentive can matter as much as its size. So what if it were possible to design a tax policy for charitable giving that wasn't quite as generous as the current one but still led people to give nearly as much as they're giving now? It wouldn't be easy. As the original research on charitable giving suggested, people are often quite rational about their taxes -- more rational, evidently, than they are about matching gifts. But it might not be impossible, and the potential benefits would be enormous. It's the kind of problem that cries out for a clever field experiment by someone like John List. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Divine Bradley 25, Team Revolution, New York Bradley was 17 when he opened his family's front porch and basement as a makeshift community center for drifting young people in Canarsie, Brooklyn. In 2002, he mobilized young people in his neighborhood to go door to door to raise money to rent their own community center
they gathered $25,000 in a little more than two weeks and started Team Revolution, which now operates many programs including workshops on financial basics and community mural painting. ''You are taught to depend on the councilman, and you are taught to depend on the senator. You pay them with your tax dollars to do things for your community. But sometimes you have to create your own government. . . . The best way to predict the future is to create it.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KALLE DOS SANTOS
CHRISTIAN OTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
DRAWING: CHALLENGE, DON'T MATCH: In this real-world test, two economists found that challenge grants worked better than matching grants. Working with a chapter of the Sierra Club, researchers sent four different letters asking for money for an environmental education program. There were two control groups : one was told the group needed to raise $2,500
the other was told the goal was $5,000. A third group received the ''challenge grant'' letter: a request for $5,000, with $2,500 already pledged by a benefactor. The fourth group received the ''matching grant'' letter: it stated a goal of $5,000 but added that a donor would match any gift dollar for dollar. (SOURCE: ''MATCHING AND CHALLENGE GIFTS TO CHARITY: EVIDENCE FROM LABORATORY AND NATURAL FIELD EXPERIMENTS,'' DANIEL RONDEAU AND JOHN A. LIST)
 (DRAWING BY RBG6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (92%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); ANNUAL REPORTS (70%); MATCHING GIFTS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (72%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



246 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; SOOTHSAYING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1667 words

HEADLINE: Conventional Wisdom

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 RHETORICAL pop quiz:
 Who was more dead, Hillary Rodham Clinton a week ago or John McCain six months ago?
 Whose nomination was more inevitable, Mrs. Clinton's six months ago or Barack Obama's two weeks ago?
 Both questions are of course moot -- if not ridiculous in retrospect (as fleeting as Rudy's front-runner status or the media swoon over Fred Thompson).
 Yet they inspire a proclamation that might actually be true: The accuracy rate of ''conventional wisdom'' in this presidential election has plummeted to new lows.
 The economist John Kenneth Galbraith coined the term ''conventional wisdom'' in ''The Affluent Society,'' his 1958 book. He was describing expectations commonly ascribed to an omniscient ''public sentiment.'' In that time, a small, powerful class of broadcasters, columnists, thinkers and political leaders trafficked in such assumptions, often faulty (e.g., ''a Catholic will never become president''). 
 Today, new swarms of self-styled pundits can formulate conventional wisdom, or merely advance it, in any number of forums -- e-mail, cable, blogs, talk radio. Conventional wisdom now just seems to bubble up, fatherless, with minimal brain work or reflection behind it. Its life cycle -- the creation, debunking and subsequent hand-wringing of ''old'' conventional wisdom -- has been radically compressed.
 ''The enemy of the conventional wisdom is not ideas but the march of events,'' Mr. Galbraith wrote, and never has the march of events trampled so harshly upon conventional wisdom as it has in this election.
 Granted, some conventional wisdom does prove true, and seems rightly indisputable at its conception. Former Senator Mike Gravel, for instance, was given no chance of becoming the Democratic nominee -- a palm tree's chance in Alaska, if you will -- and sure enough, it's not looking good for President Gravel these days, wherever he is.
 Still, it has become almost impossible to invoke ''conventional wisdom'' without some sense of irony, or some implicit warning label that it could turn out to be very wrong.
 Conventional wisdom is dogged and determined -- or at least its purveyors are. And even as ''widely held beliefs'' keep succumbing to reality, new ones flower like artichokes in spring. This year has brought a particularly brutal harvest. What follows is a crop report. And remember, it will all be settled by Feb. 5 or, at the latest, March 4.
 What Proved to Be False
 Bill Clinton will be a great asset to Hillary. For all we know, the former president has been showering his wife with brilliant strategic advice in the background. But as a public surrogate, Mr. Clinton has run disastrously off the tracks at times (see Carolina, South), engaging in red-face tirades on camera, offending black voters, infuriating party leaders and generally consuming way too much oxygen. He has gone conspicuously Off-Broadway since South Carolina -- no sign of him (only Chelsea) at Mrs. Clinton's victory speech last Tuesday.
 Money is everything. Certainly, it's better to have it -- lots of it -- than not. But there have been numerous examples in this campaign of candidates with no money (John McCain last year) or little money (Mike Huckabee this year) surviving, even thriving. 
 Inversely, the stout coffers of Mr. Obama did little for him in Texas (where he spent about $10 million in television advertising between early February and early March) and Ohio ($5.3 million). And despite spending $42 million of his own money, Mitt Romney developed little traction beyond his actual and adopted home states of Massachusetts, Michigan and Utah. 
 ''That's amazing,'' the comedian Jimmy Kimmel said after Mr. Romney dropped out. ''I was able to not win the presidency for free.''
 Barack Obama has a glass jaw. For many months last year, it was assumed that Mr. Obama would be too soft, or timid, to endure the attacks to come. ''Obambi,'' he was dubbed by a Chicago Tribune columnist. A parallel assumption emerged that the 46-year-old Mr. Obama was merely running in 2008 to sow good will for a campaign in 2012 or 2016. As it turned out, Mr. Obama has proven adept at deflecting punches, shrugging off criticism from opponents as ''the same old politics.'' 
 Caveat: Mr. Obama has gotten bad reviews in recent days for his ability to parry attacks from Mrs. Clinton and tougher questions from the news media in the run-up to Texas and Ohio. ''He may have a glass jaw,'' CNN's Wolf Blitzer said last week. He was one of many media types to raise the suspicion anew.
 Hillary Clinton has no sense of humor. Several commentators described Mrs. Clinton and her campaign as overly cautions, all business and humorless, and efforts to combat this -- a clever send-up of the last ''Sopranos'' episode featuring Bill and Hillary -- had little effect.
 But while her campaign staff can still seem besieged, defensive and perpetually indignant, some of Mrs. Clinton's best moments in this campaign have been spontaneous turns of humor. 
 After finishing third in Iowa, she was essentially asked in a debate in New Hampshire why she was so unlikable, to which she replied, ''That hurts my feelings,'' drawing belly laughs. Her appearances on ''Saturday Night Live'' and ''The Daily Show With Jon Stewart'' were also generally well received last week and (like the debate line in New Hampshire) presaged a big comeback at the polls. 
 The presidential race goes on too long. This is a particularly common lament among political reporters (and of course, everyone cares what they think). Likewise, the actor Tom Hanks declared himself ''bored'' with the campaign last week, and his view is no doubt representative of some people (and of course everyone cares what Hollywood types think about politics).
 But while the race has seemed endless at times, there has also been consistently high interest, particularly in the Democratic race. Several primaries and caucuses have featured record voter turnout, and many debates and political talk shows have had huge ratings. 
 Besides, if the nomination fight is really past due, why can't Democrats just decide on a candidate and we'll call it over, at least until summer? 
 Hillary Clinton is surrounded by a cohesive, loyal and disciplined team of advisers. This would be the cohesive, loyal and disciplined team that burned through $100 million, spent $7 million on a state it lost by 29 points (South Carolina), was unwilling or incapable of organizing in caucus states and unprepared for much after Feb. 5. In addition, some of Mrs. Clinton's top advisers -- namely her chief strategist, Mark Penn, in The Los Angeles Times last week -- engaged in egregious backside-covering in the days before March 4.
 Campaign insiders have credited Mrs. Clinton with surviving despite her organization, not because of it. ''She was better than her campaign,'' one longtime adviser, Harold Ickes, told Adam Nagourney of The New York Times.
 John McCain will be done in by immigration in the Republican primaries. Mr. McCain's willingness to compromise with Senate Democrats on immigration reform infuriated many Republicans. But in the end, immigration receded somewhat as an issue late in 2007, and Mr. McCain's chief opponent -- Mike Huckabee -- was also attracting suspicion on the issue from the right. 
 Young people don't vote.
 Primary campaigns are dominated by party activists.
 A Republican can't win without the love of evangelicals.
 If A, B and C were true, Mr. Obama would be nowhere, Mrs. Clinton would be the nominee-in-waiting, and Mr. Huckabee would be one too.
 Iowa is everything. Just ask President Huckabee. Iowa was roundly viewed as the Everything State of 2008. Reporters swarmed there in December relative to New Hampshire, as did candidates. (One Democrat, Senator Christopher Dodd of Connecticut, even moved his family there.) 
 The Iowa-is-everything school was popularized in late 2003 and early 2004 by the faltering campaign of John Kerry, who devoted virtually all of his time and resources to Iowa. This resulted in an upset victory there, which snowballed into New Hampshire and rolled him to the nomination.
 But while Iowa set off Obamamania in 2008 -- no small thing, to be sure -- Mr. Huckabee's victory there had little shelf life, while big losses by Mrs. Clinton and Mr. McCain had little bearing on what followed. Both won in New Hampshire five days later.
 Blacks will be loyal to the Clintons. Certainly having a black opponent has cut into Mrs. Clinton's presumed support among African-Americans. But the degree to which Mr. Obama dominates among black voters -- spurred by offending remarks from Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Clinton and surrogates of the campaign -- has clearly tweaked the calculus of the Democratic race in Mr. Obama's favor.
 John Edwards's withdrawal will be a boon to Barack Obama.
 John Edwards's withdrawal will be a boon to Hillary Clinton.
 What Proved to Be True
 Hillary Clinton is resilient.
 Barack Obama gives a great speech.
 Rudolph W. Giuliani's Florida strategy is a nonstarter.
 One of the second-tier Republicans will emerge (Sam Brownback, Duncan Hunter and -- ding-ding-ding, we have a winner -- Mike Huckabee).
 Mr. Huckabee's early success was unsustainable.
 Fred Thompson isn't really exciting anyone.
 This will be a historic election.
 What Is Yet Unproven
 Mr. McCain's fortunes will rise or fall on Iraq. 
 Conservatives will stay home in November if Mr. McCain is nominated.
 Blacks will stay home if Mrs. Clinton is nominated.
 Mr. McCain will pick a much younger running mate, preferably a governor.
 The Democratic race will come down to the convention.
 The convention will be a blood bath.
 Mr. McCain is too old.
 Mr. Obama is too young.
 Mrs. Clinton is too divisive.
 Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama will never share the ticket.
 This will be a ''change election.''
 This will be a ''national security election.''
 This will be an economy election.
 This will be the year of the Democrats.It seems so inevitable. Or at least it did.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELLIOT J. SUTHERLAND/OTTAWA HERALD, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS KEANE/REUTERS)(pg. WK4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY OMNIVORE)(pg. WK1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WRITERS (69%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (88%); BILL CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); FRED THOMPSON (58%); MIKE GRAVEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



247 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: The Monster Mash

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 I was covered in barbecue sauce, somewhere over Texas, when Barack Obama loped down the aisle of the plane to chat with reporters.
 I felt guilty, because I had been covering his speeches urging parents to make their kids give up chips and Popeyes. I hadn't yet come to grips with the notion of giving up Popeyes when Obama -- slender, chewing Nicorette and perfectly groomed in his crisp white shirt -- came upon me. I was splattered with so much red sauce it could have been a scene from ''Saw IV.'' Not only on my face and hands but all over the candidate's picture in the U.S. News & World Report I was reading.
 ''It's on my ear,'' he complained, looking down at the magazine. 
 Feeling cocky after 11 straight wins, he called me ''MoDowd'' and tweaked me for my many columns suggesting he would need to toughen up to beat the Clinton machine. ''She's trying to give me hair on my chest,'' he said mockingly, plucking at his shirt.
 After losing Texas, Ohio, Rhode Island and his mojo, and getting whipsawed around by Hillary and his own chuckleheaded coterie of advisers, he will now have to come to grips with something he has always skittered away from: You can't be elected president unless you prove you're tough.
 Hillary's undeniably tough, as even admiring conservatives admit. The Wall Street Journal op-ed page dubbed her Ma Barker, saying she had tapped into the angst of blue-collar women who know they have to ignore their ''moping'' men and ''suck it up and hold the house together.''
 Ma Clinton knows where Obambi's soft spots are; she knows he likes being petted on his pedestal, that he's unnerved by her, and that he can never fully accept how shameless she is. What could be more shameless than suggesting to Democrats that John McCain would make a better commander in chief than Obama?
 The Obama campaign seems naive when it keeps reacting with hurt feelings and play-by-the-rules protestations to the Clinton modus vivendi of grabbing the slightest slip and ripping it open. Hillary's kneecapper Howard Wolfson compares the goo-goo Obama campaign to Ken Starr with a straight face.
 The superdelegates are watching to see if Obama can stiffen his backbone. After seeing their candidates lose races they should have won in 2000 and 2004 because they flinched at Republican political waterboarding, Democrats do not want to watch the bully swipe their lollipop a third time.
 Obama's multiculturalism is a selling point with many Democrats. But his impassioned egghead advisers have made his campaign seem not only out of his control, but effete and vaguely foreign -- the same unflattering light that doomed Michael Dukakis and John Kerry.
 First, his University of Chicago economics adviser, Austan Goolsbee, took it upon himself to reassure Canadian officials that Obama was hard on Nafta only to court the economic populist vote. In a meeting in Chicago, a memo from the Canadian consulate noted, ''Goolsbee said he has always been impressed with Canada, sharing his experiences which have included trips to Montreal and Toronto as part of the Yale debate team and visits to Vancouver with his wife.''
 While we've seen book tours that set up a presidential run, we've never seen one that tore one down. That is, until Samantha Power -- the Dublin-born Harvard expert on human rights who drily refers to herself as ''genocide chick'' -- hit London to promote her new book. 
 Power, a foreign policy adviser to Obama, told The Scotsman that Hillary was ''a monster'' and the BBC that Obama's Iraq withdrawal plan was merely a ''best-case scenario.'' (She's now resigned.)
 Ma Clinton pounced, telling reporters in Mississippi, ''He keeps telling people one thing, while his campaign tells people abroad something else.''
 Hillary successfully recast herself in Ohio as a beer-drinking former waitress. Only after last week's reversals did the Obama camp raise a louder ruckus about her tax returns. Obviously, Ms. Night Shift does not want to reveal the details of the fortune that Bill Clinton has made, sometimes through dubious associations.
 It has taken Obama a year to start seriously rebutting Hillary's risible claim that she has far more national security experience than he does. Having a first lady tea in Belfast is not equivalent to bringing peace to Northern Ireland.
 Obama sounded whiny after his losses, chastising reporters on his plane for asking him hard questions about Goolsbee and Antonin Rezko. Privately, his people conceded that he hadn't been as fierce about winning as Hillary, once more playing rope-a-dope.
 He's now learned what Hillary learned in Iowa: You can't cruise to victory on a coronation strategy.
 If he thinks Hillary has cut him down to size lately, he'd better imagine what his life would be like as the Clintons' vice president. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (69%); SUPERDELEGATES (61%)

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (70%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



248 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Downturn Tests The Fed's Ability To Avert a Crisis

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
In the last seven months, policy makers have cut interest rates, injected money into the banking system and approved a fiscal stimulus package in an effort to keep the economy from slipping into a recession. Often, the moves seemed to work at first, only to be overtaken by more bad news.
 The failure of any of the usual fiscal and monetary policy tools so far raises questions about what the Federal Reserve and federal government can do in the near term to counter the forces that have battered housing prices and pushed down the stock market and are now causing a hiring slowdown.
 ''There are times when there is only so much the Fed can do,'' said Barry Ritholtz, chief executive of FusionIQ, an investment firm in New York. ''It can smooth out the business cycle a little bit, but last I checked, we haven't done away with the business cycle.'' 
 One of the main problems now is a deepening crisis of confidence that is compounding the ill effects from the housing downturn. As lenders and businesses become more cautious about whom they lend to and hire, they are slowing an already weakened economy.
 If the housing boom was a manifestation of irrational exuberance, some say it has swung too far in the other direction, to irrational despondency.
 ''Banks went from giving money away like drunken sailors to not lending to the most credit-worthy borrowers,'' Mr. Ritholtz, who writes the popular economics blog The Big Picture, said.
 The latest signs of panic in the markets came last week. Banks began calling in loans they had made to hedge funds, mortgage companies and others, forcing them to sell billions of bonds. The moves prompted concern about securities backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the large government-chartered buyers of mortgages that many investors believe have the implicit backing of the federal government.
 When big investors are forced to quickly dump billions of dollars in securities, trading can seize up, especially when buyers are scarce, as they are now. Just a few weeks earlier, a similar bout of forced selling drove down the prices of municipal bonds issued by states and cities. 
 In mid-January, the Fed moved to arrest the crisis in the financial system after markets plunged around the world and a French bank announced a big trading loss; markets in the United States were closed because of a holiday. The Fed cut interest rates three-quarters of a point and cut them another half-point a week later at a scheduled meeting.
 With the exception of a few days, the market rallied those two weeks, and investors even drove down mortgage interest rates, sending millions of homeowners shopping for new loans.
 But the relief was short-lived. Mortgage interest rates headed back up almost immediately, and by early February the stock market was falling again after reports showed a drop in employment and a slackening in the service sector.
 ''The Fed rate cuts aren't doing anything for my clients except confuse them,'' Steve Walsh, a mortgage broker in the Phoenix area, wrote in an e-mail message at the end of January.
 Fed officials would say that mortgage rates would be higher still had they done nothing. But given the shortcomings of the response so far, the Fed and members of Congress are working on more aggressive tactics.
 The Fed is expected to cut rates further when its policy-making committee meets next week. It will also increase the money it lends to banks in periodic auctions to $100 billion, from $30 billion.
 Fed officials have been meeting with aides to Representative Barney Frank, Democrat from Massachusetts, who is chairman of the House Financial Services Committee and has argued for more government intervention. The Fed supports some of the ideas Mr. Frank has been discussing, including having onerous mortgages refinanced and guaranteed through the Federal Housing Administration. But the central bank, at least so far, opposes the purchase of troubled loans by the federal government, an idea suggested by Mr. Frank and other Democrats.
 Much of the focus will remain on housing, because policy makers and analysts think banks and investors will not regain confidence until the real estate market stabilizes. Uncertainty about how far home prices will fall has made banks less willing to lend and consumers reluctant to buy.
 Banks are also unwilling to lend because they are worried they will not be paid back. Nearly 7.9 percent of home loans were in foreclosure or past due at the end of last year, and most economists expect that more borrowers will encounter trouble.
 Some lenders are also trying to preserve their capital because they expect to have more losses. Last week, Citibank said it would reduce its holdings of home loans by 20 percent.
 ''Lenders can't lend in this environment because they fear they are not going to get paid back,'' said Daniel Alpert, a managing director at Westwood Capital, an investment bank in New York. ''And guys who own homes have no value left to hock.''
 The interest rate on 30-year fixed mortgages is back above 6 percent, still historically low, after falling below 5.5 percent in December. Banks are demanding bigger down payments and cutting off home equity lines of credit to borrowers, especially those who live in states where home prices are falling fastest.
 Mr. Alpert and others see a parallel between the credit problems today in the United States and the economic crisis in Japan in the 1990s. In both cases, reckless lending and a bubble in real estate contributed to enormous losses and tightening of loans.
 There are significant differences, however. American banks have been quick to recognize losses, and policy makers have moved to contain the damage and protect the broader economy. In Japan, many lenders did not write off bad loans and the central bank was much slower to respond. The 1990s is broadly seen as a ''lost decade'' for that country.
 Mr. Alpert, who bought troubled loans from Japanese banks for pennies on the dollar, said that while American financial institutions are moving fast, policy makers should encourage or even force them to write down and restructure bad mortgages faster so they can get back to lending.
 ''If you fail to clean up the problem and take aggressive action, you are going to have years and years of stagnation as Japan did,'' he said.
 There are signs that the logjam in some markets is loosening as bargain hunters move in to take advantage of the turmoil. When enough investors step in to buy beaten-down securities, it can restore confidence and make banks willing to lend more freely.
 In the municipal bond market, for instance, prices rose steadily last week as retail investors and mutual funds bought bonds that distressed hedge funds were selling at deep discounts, said Douglas A. Dachille, the chief executive of First Principles Capital Management, a firm that specializes in bonds. Prices on one index compiled by The Bond Buyer, a trade publication, rose 5.7 percent last week after falling 6.2 percent in the last week of February.
 That ''problem was solved,'' Mr. Dachille said Friday. ''By the end of this week, the muni market is functioning well again.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: ''Lower Rates: Not Yet the Tonic'' The Federal Reserve has lowered its benchmark interest rate five times since September. Stocks have tended to surge in anticipation of those cuts, even hitting a record in October. But the rallies have faded as problems in the housing and credit markets worsened. (Sources: Bloomberg
 Federal Reserve)(pg. 20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); BOND ISSUES (69%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (68%); EXECUTIVES (54%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



249 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Confident After Taking G.O.P. Seat in Illinois

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Congressional Democrats on Sunday were celebrating an election victory that they said increased their confidence of holding the House in November and affirmed that party positions on the Iraq war and health care were resonating with voters.
 At the same time, they said the victory, taking over the Illinois seat held for two decades by Dennis J. Hastert, who became the most powerful Republican in Congress, showed that Democrats can run strongly in the more than two dozen House seats being vacated by Republicans, particularly given the party's financial advantage.
 The election of Bill Foster, a physicist, for the 14th Congressional District provided special satisfaction to Democrats since it means that their party in the past two years has won seats held by two of their arch foes -- Mr. Hastert, the former speaker who left Congress last fall, and Tom DeLay, the former House majority leader from Texas. 
 ''It was a remarkable repudiation of Republican status quo, showing that voters all across America are eager for change,'' Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, said Sunday.
 Mr. Foster will serve out the rest of Mr. Hastert's term in this session of Congress after defeating Jim Oberweis by a comfortable margin in the district west of Chicago long considered reliably Republican territory. The two men are scheduled to face each other again in November, when Mr. Foster will now carry at least some air of incumbency.
 Republicans said that Mr. Oberweis, who was Mr. Hastert's candidate in the race, needed to repair his image by November after being pounded in a primary, in the race with Mr. Foster and in Chicago-area news media. Republicans sought to play down the implications of the contest for the broader national landscape but acknowledged privately that the loss of the ex-speaker's seat would be demoralizing.
 ''It is a psychological blow,'' said one Republican who did not want to be identified by name when speaking of the negative fallout from the contest.
 Officials of the National Republican Congressional Committee said results in March did not necessarily translate into November victories.
 ''The one thing 2008 has shown is that one election in one state does not prove a trend,'' said Karen Hanretty, communications director for the Republican group. ''The one message coming out of 2008 so far is that what happens today is not a bellwether of what happens this fall.''
 Special elections are not always harbingers of trends, but they can be. Democrats lost an early election in 2006 in California but went on to recapture the House. Back in 1974, Democrats won a series of special elections in Republican districts that foreshadowed the Watergate landslide. Republicans are already nervous about a special election later this spring in Louisiana.
 Democrats said the Illinois victory could be replayed this fall in other races where the party has strong candidates running in districts being vacated by Republicans. Two of those seats are in Illinois.
 ''If you look at the other open seats, most of them are less Republican than this one,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. 
 The Republican Congressional committee spent more than $1.2 million in the race -- about 20 percent of its cash on hand as of Dec. 31 -- and will not be able to make such a heavy investment in many other open seats without a significant improvement in fund-raising. The party does expect to raise about $7 million at a major fund-raising dinner to be headlined by President Bush this week, though the Illinois loss is likely to dampen the celebration.
 Republicans said that Mr. Oberweis, a wealthy dairy owner, had lingering public disapproval from three failed campaigns and found himself on the defensive late in the race on several fronts, including a disclosure that a subcontractor employed illegal immigrants and criticism of a campaign flier that used stock photos of fictitious families to discuss economic issues.
 And they say Democratic enthusiasm in Illinois for Senator Barack Obama, the presidential contender who made an advertisement for Mr. Foster, worked against their candidate as well. 
 Democrats say Mr. Foster's advocacy of a withdrawal of troops from Iraq tapped voter opposition to Mr. Bush, while Republicans acknowledge that the president's unpopularity harmed their candidate. Democrats also said that Mr. Foster benefited from his emphasis on health care issues in his advertising, particularly Republican opposition to expansion of the State Children's Health Insurance Program.
 Since Mr. Hastert was no longer in office, the victory did not rank with Republican defeats of Speaker Tom Foley of Washington in 1994 or the ouster of Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, in 2004. But it cheered Democrats.
 ''The symbolic value of winning the seat held by the speaker of the House for more than 20 years cannot be exaggerated,'' Mr. Van Hollen said. ''There is no sugarcoating this for the other side.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill Foster, right, with Senator Richard J. Durbin in Aurora, Ill., soon after winning a Congressional contest on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS OCKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%)

PERSON: BILL FOSTER (89%); NANCY PELOSI (59%); RICHARD DURBIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008



250 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Prison Nation

 BODY:
After three decades of explosive growth, the nation's prison population has reached some grim milestones: More than 1 in 100 American adults are behind bars. One in nine black men, ages 20 to 34, are serving time, as are 1 in 36 adult Hispanic men. 
 Nationwide, the prison population hovers at almost 1.6 million, which surpasses all other countries for which there are reliable figures. The 50 states last year spent about $44 billion in tax dollars on corrections, up from nearly $11 billion in 1987. Vermont, Connecticut, Delaware, Michigan and Oregon devote as much money or more to corrections as they do to higher education.
 These statistics, contained in a new report from the Pew Center on the States, point to a terrible waste of money and lives. They underscore the urgent challenge facing the federal government and cash-strapped states to reduce their overreliance on incarceration without sacrificing public safety. The key, as some states are learning, is getting smarter about distinguishing between violent criminals and dangerous repeat offenders, who need a prison cell, and low-risk offenders, who can be handled with effective community supervision, electronic monitoring and mandatory drug treatment programs, combined in some cases with shorter sentences.
 Persuading public officials to adopt a more rational, cost-effective approach to prison policy is a daunting prospect, however, not least because building and running jailhouses has become a major industry.
 Criminal behavior partly explains the size of the prison population, but incarceration rates have continued to rise while crime rates have fallen. Any effort to reduce the prison population must consider the blunderbuss impact of get-tough sentencing laws adopted across the United States beginning in the 1970's. Many Americans have come to believe, wrongly, that keeping an outsized chunk of the population locked up is essential for sustaining a historic crime drop since the 1990's. 
 In fact, the relationship between imprisonment and crime control is murky. Some portion of the decline is attributable to tough sentencing and release policies. But crime is also affected by things like economic trends and employment and drug-abuse rates. States that lagged behind the national average in rising incarceration rates during the 1990's actually experienced a steeper decline in crime rates than states above the national average, according to the Sentencing Project, a nonprofit group.
 A rising number of states are broadening their criminal sanctions with new options for low-risk offenders that are a lot cheaper than incarceration but still protect the public and hold offenders accountable. In New York, the crime rate has continued to drop despite efforts to reduce the number of nonviolent drug offenders in prison. 
 The Pew report spotlights policy changes in Texas and Kansas that have started to reduce their outsized prison populations and address recidivism by investing in ways to improve the success rates for community supervision, expanding treatment and diversion programs, and increasing use of sanctions other than prison for minor parole and probation violations. Recently, the Supreme Court and the United States Sentencing Commission announced sensible changes in the application of harsh mandatory minimum drug sentences.
 These are signs that the country may finally be waking up to the fiscal and moral costs of bulging prisons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); SENTENCING (89%); SUPERVISED RELEASE (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); TRENDS (78%); RECIDIVISM RATES (78%); ELECTRONIC MONITOR SENTENCING (78%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); VIOLENT CRIME (73%); DRUG POLICY (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008



251 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Big Visions For Building Don't Include People Inside

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS. 
E-mail: susan.dominus@ nytimes.com

 BODY:
If New York were a building, it might be found on the corner of Tiffany Street and Lafayette Avenue in the Bronx.
 Don't be misled by its looks. The former American Banknote Company Building is the visual antithesis of New York's sleek, spiky skyline, a hulking 400,000-square-foot behemoth in one of the city's poorest neighborhoods, Hunts Point.
 But behind the fortresslike brick walls, almost every strata of New York life has a thriving home. For foodies, there's a culinary school for high school students. Representing the last remnants of New York's manufacturing sector is Paul May, Inc., which produces trade-show giveaways. For theater lovers, there is the Bronx Academy of Arts and Dance, founded by Arthur Aviles, and throughout the building, struggling artists pound metal and paint in airy, high-ceilinged studios. Serving the luxury sector, the Wine Cellarage provides storage at ideal temperatures for wine lovers waiting for their investments to reach peak vintage. 
 At the opposite end of the spectrum, the building houses the Living Room, a drop-in center for homeless men and women. This is storage of the last resort, a place where people sleep, sometimes every night for months, sitting at cafeteria-style tables while they wait for placement in permanent housing. 
 Last December, the building came to represent not just the city's diversity, but its shiny, optimistic path of development over the past four decades. Two major players, Taconic Investment Partners and Denham Wolf Real Estate Services, purchased the building for $32 million and soon thereafter informed its tenants that the rents -- which had been running about $12 a square foot -- would more than double. In one fell swoop, here was a story of gentrification, usually a years-long process, playing itself out within one big building. Out with the pioneers who helped make it an appealing space for the next guy, and in, the developers hope, with the next guy -- more established sectors of art and business. 
 Many of the smaller artists are forming a collaborative to try to negotiate rents they can afford, and Taconic has been receptive to that possibility. But certainly, other tenants will be driven out, among them, the Living Room. 
 ''I'm not sure the way they use the space is compatible with who our tenant base may be,'' said Charles Bendit, co-chief executive of Taconic. ''We've had people throw up in front of the building, take a little sip from their pocket -- it's tough to have that kind of thing at the entrance of your building.'' 
 It has asked, with some wiggle room, that the drop-in center be out by August. 
 Inside the Living Room on a weekday morning, the picture wasn't exactly prime for Taconic's marketing brochure, either. Amid a strong institutional smell of cleaning fluid, under bright fluorescent lights, about 40 men and women (there are more at night) crowded the tables, some of them chatting companionably while others argued incoherently and still others stared off into space as if they had been sitting in the same spot for days. 
 For the men and women seeking shelter there, the space looks fine, not ideal, never ideal, but better than most other options. ''I'd rather sleep in a chair here than go back to Wards Island; that place was crazy,'' said a Living Room client, Heriberto Rivera, referring to a large shelter there. After 16 months of doing just that at the Living Room, Mr. Rivera, a former addict, was now within weeks of being placed in an apartment, at which point he would join around 150 other chronically homeless people who have been guided to permanent housing in the past two years with the help of the Living Room and its parent organization, Citizens Advice Bureau.
 Last week, the city reported a 25 percent decline in the number of people living on the street and in subways citywide since 2005. In Hunts Point, which once had the highest concentration of homeless people in the Bronx, the decline in homelessness has been far steeper than that of the past 10 years, city officials and advocates for the homeless say, with much of the credit going to the Living Room. Where people in other neighborhoods might see the arrival of a drop-in center as a sign of decay, in Hunts Point, its services made the neighborhood a place where artists would consider coming to work. 
 ''Whether people know to credit the Living Room for it or not, they know there's a difference,'' says Maria Torres, a longtime Hunts Point resident and the director and chief operating officer of the Point, a community arts organization. Not that the Living Room has been so successful that it has eliminated its own relevance: Seventeen hundred people used its services last year, and some of them would still be sleeping under bridges or in the parks or, for that matter, in the parking lot of the former American Banknote Company Building, if they had no other option. 
 Up until now, the city has been floating on a fever dream of gentrification: If you renovate, they will come. In the next few months, as it starts to market the property, Taconic will find out whether that maxim will hold in this economy, in this neighborhood, a desolate peninsula where pawn shops, a prison barge and waste sewage plants constitute its biggest business. In its most optimistic plans, Taconic would anchor the building with a first-class museum and transform the complex into a destination art space like Dia:Beacon in Dutchess County, and the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art in North Adams. If they can pull off even one-tenth of what Lincoln Center is supposed to have done for the Upper West Side, the new owners could spark a turning point for the neighborhood, the kind of transformation that urban planners dream of. 
 It could also mark a turning point for the Living Room. Scott Auwarter, assistant executive director of the Citizens Advice Bureau, says that he would love to see Hunts Point thrive. But he worries that one possible route to neighborhood change could put the Living Room in the same position as the clients it has been serving all these years -- homeless and confused, no doubt, about just how they ended up that way. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The building in Hunt's Point houses culinary and arts programs, as well as a homeless shelter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B4)
 Under new ownership, rent at the former American Banknote Company Building will more than double. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); WINE (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); DANCE EDUCATION (70%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (67%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (56%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (55%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (55%); TRADE SHOWS (54%); HOMELESSNESS (52%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008



252 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Mayor's Friend Landed Millions in Contracts, Newspaper Reports

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Companies headed by a longtime friend of the embattled Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick won millions of dollars in city contracts while the friend secretly consulted with the mayor's chief of staff, The Detroit Free Press reported Sunday. 
 The Free Press said records and text messages it had obtained indicated that the friend, Bobby Ferguson, and companies he worked with had collected at least $45 million in contracts.
 The text messages from 2002 and 2003 show that Christine Beatty, who was Mr. Kilpatrick's chief of staff, provided Mr. Ferguson with bid strategies and information on potential projects. The mayor was directly involved in at least one discussion about Mr. Ferguson's bid strategy, The Free Press reported.
 Mr. Ferguson, the city and a lawyer for Ms. Beatty all denied wrongdoing in the handling of contracts.
 A prosecutor has been investigating whether Mr. Kilpatrick and Ms. Beatty lied under oath during a trial in a whistle-blower lawsuit about having had an affair.
 Ferguson Enterprises Inc. companies have generally received good reviews for their work and have been among the lowest bidders on major city projects. But text messages from Ms. Beatty's city-issued pager show that Mr. Ferguson repeatedly communicated with her about pending bids, giving him access that may not have been available to others seeking city contracts, the newspaper said.
 In a statement sent by e-mail to The Associated Press, Ferguson Enterprises said it obtained its work through public bids in which ''it was the lowest and most qualified bidder.''
 The company said it ''objects to any suggestion to the contrary and to any attempt to impugn its integrity or the integrity of its principals.''
 In a statement given to The A.P. on Sunday by the mayor's office, Waymon Guillebeaux, vice president for project management of the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation, said the city's contract decisions were based purely upon economics and qualifications. Mr. Guillebeaux's responsibilities include such decisions; his agency is the city's public-private development arm.
 ''Mr. Ferguson won bids through an impartial and unbiased process with deliberations taking place in an open public forum,'' Mr. Guillebeaux said.
 A lawyer for Ms. Beatty, Jeffrey Morganroth, said Sunday that his client had spoken with other contractors in person and by phone. He said the bid process had been ''entirely impartial and unbiased.'' 
 Ms. Beatty resigned last month.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A newspaper has raised new questions about the Detroit mayor, Kwame M. Kilpatrick, who has under investigation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); TEXT MESSAGING (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); MAYORS (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (70%); LITIGATION (69%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (62%)

COMPANY: FERGUSON ENTERPRISES INC (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423830 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (82%); NAICS423720 PLUMBING & HEATING EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (HYDRONICS) MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (82%); SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (82%); SIC5074 PLUMBING & HEATING EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (HYDRONICS) (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008



253 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: Going to the Company Elders for Help

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SANTA CLARA, Calif. 

 BODY:
On a recent Saturday afternoon, John Toppel, a retired Hewlett-Packard sales manager, did not spend his leisure time golfing or mowing the lawn. He spent it at a local electronics store extolling the virtues of H.P. laptop computers to customers.
 He was not paid by the store or by Hewlett-Packard, for that matter. Mr. Toppel, 62, left the technology company four years ago, but he remains a volunteer cheerleader for H.P., one of thousands of its retirees whom the company is trying to galvanize into an auxiliary army of senior marketers, good-will ambassadors and volunteer sales people. None of them get paid; they do it, they say, because of their affection for the company. 
 ''I feel like I have two marriages: a wonderful marriage at home for 36 years and a wonderful marriage at H.P.,'' Mr. Toppel said. ''I guess that's now a former marriage, but I still have strong feelings for it.'' 
 Across the country, companies are making use of retirees as part-time or temporary workers. They are taking advantage of not only their expertise, but also their desire to stay involved and engaged with the world through work. 
 Hewlett-Packard's twist is particularly unusual in Silicon Valley, where long-term company loyalty is as rare as a pinstripe suit. Here, people switch jobs and companies on Internet time, chasing the latest technology developments and the chance to cash in stock options or catch an initial public offering.
 But Hewlett-Packard, founded in 1939 before there even was a Silicon Valley, has tens of thousands of alumni, many who spent decades at the company, based in Palo Alto, Calif. Old-timers express a familial loyalty, telling stories of eating meals and drinking coffee with the founders, David Packard and William Hewlett, or receiving a baby blanket from Mr. Packard's wife, Lucile, on the birth of a child.
 In a move it says reflects a renewed emphasis on grass-roots marketing in the Internet era, Hewlett-Packard is seeking to turn its retirees into a valuable asset that other, younger tech companies lack. 
 ''We're moving forward with an effort to capitalize on the fact we have these great brand stewards,'' said Michael Mendenhall, chief marketing office of Hewlett-Packard. ''When you look at the importance of great word of mouth and great third-party endorsement -- who better to do that than your own employees?''
 Mr. Mendenhall appeared last Monday at the retirees' annual gathering with Hewlett-Packard's chief executive, Mark Hurd. They urged more than 500 retirees who had gathered at the Computer History Museum in Mountain View, Calif. -- hundreds more watched over the Internet -- to do volunteer sales, join local alumni clubs, get involved in legislative issues the company cares about and represent Hewlett-Packard in philanthropic and community events. The company's goal is to inspire involvement from as many as 40,000 retirees.
 Mr. Toppel, who did a recent stint as a volunteer salesman at Circuit City, said he gladly is participating because he feels great loyalty to the company. He and others also say they still own shares in the company, giving them a financial incentive to contribute. And, Mr. Toppel said, the company is giving a renewed sense of purpose to retirees. 
 ''It makes them feel good, makes them part of it, makes them feel wanted,'' said Mr. Toppel, who spent 31 years at Hewlett-Packard and now is a professor of management at the business school at Santa Clara University.
 The idea of encouraging retirees to work for free has inspired some criticism. Susan Ayers Walker, founder of SmartSilvers Alliance, which offers consulting services to business looking to connect with older consumers, says she is offended that Hewlett-Packard can't find some way to compensate volunteer workers, particularly salespeople.
 The company said participation is the reward. ''It's about being part of the H.P. community and its rich heritage,'' said Mr. Mendenhall. ''That's what they get.''
 Their involvement can be bittersweet, say some of Hewlett-Packard retirees. The oldest among them -- now into their 90s -- are the last of the generation that helped build Silicon Valley, watching it evolve from endless fields of almond, plum and cherry orchards into laboratories, semiconductor companies and software makers.
 They also are workers from a bygone era of paternalistic employers that promised lifelong employment. That era is largely gone across the country, including at H.P., which broke a tradition of avoiding layoffs and has terminated more than 30,000 workers over the last five years. 
 The contrast between the Hewlett-Packard of yesterday and the typical Silicon Valley company of today is especially pronounced, said Joe Schoendorf, 62, who spent 18 years at H.P. and is now a venture capitalist. ''If I look at a resume today, it says two years at Netscape, two years at Google, two years at Amazon, and then Facebook. That used to be a bad resume that meant the person couldn't keep a job,'' said Mr. Schoendorf. ''There is no institutional loyalty.''
 Leslie Berlin, a project historian for the Silicon Valley Archives at Stanford, said the ethos has probably changed today at Hewlett-Packard, which now has 172,000 employees. But in Silicon Valley's history, the loyalty engendered by Hewlett-Packard stands alone, she said.
 ''This is quite a unique phenomenon,'' she said. ''They represent the collective past of this place,'' she said of the older retirees. 
 To be sure, companies like I.B.M. and Lockheed Martin have loyal retiree groups. So do relatively newer entrants into the Valley's economy and culture, like Intel. A tight-knit network of retirees in the area, alumni from places like SRI International and Xerox Palo Alto Research Center who helped build the Valley, have an enormous sense of tradition. But they often are tied not to a company but to their work on specific projects or technical standards. 
 In the case of Hewlett-Packard, retirees talk about how the company treated them with respect. The company was, historians say, the first to adopt flexible work hours, and it put an early emphasis on ideas rather than titles.
 Last Monday, Chuck Ernst, 91, a former customer service manager, attended the retiree meeting with Frank Musso, 75, who spent 25 years at H.P. They said they might not have too much time or energy to get involved in volunteer projects, but they liked the way the company was reaching out. They said the company's embrace of its retirees started in earnest several years ago and has been intensifying.
 ''H.P. wants us to feel connected, and they're doing all this work to keep us connected,'' said Mr. Ernst. He said he thought the company probably ought to pay retirees to get involved in sales, but it's not something he feels strongly about. ''We're proud of the company, and we don't hesitate to let people know it.''
 Some former employees also do not hesitate to let the company know how it might do better. One of them is Art Fong, 88, who joined Hewlett-Packard in 1946 after being recruited by Mr. Hewlett over a spaghetti dinner. Every few years, Mr. Fong sends the company a technical suggestion, as he did on the day of the retiree meeting.
 ''I suggested some improvements to their new TVs,'' said Mr. Fong, who spent 50 years at the company, 40 of them full time, and, thanks to stock ownership, retired a wealthy man.
 He said he has another suggestion for the new Hewlett-Packard: ''Be nice to your employees. Treat them like family.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Toppel, who retired from Hewlett-Packard after 31 years, volunteered to promote the brand at a Circuit City store.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C1)
 The Talk Market's Amanda Eilian, left, and Matt Singer with Donna Tomaszewski. The firm helps make commercials.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); MARRIAGE (88%); SALES FORCE (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); GOLF (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); HISTORY (71%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (69%); ALUMNI (68%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (67%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (66%); STOCK OPTIONS (64%); ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS (63%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (62%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (90%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%)

PERSON: MARK HURD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008



254 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 530 words

 BODY:
A CABLE AD VENTURE The nation's six largest cable companies are making plans for a jointly owned company that will allow national advertisers to buy customized ads and interactive ads across their systems. 
 MARKETING THE EX-COMPANY Thousands of Hewlett-Packard retirees have become good will ambassadors and volunteer salespeople, reflecting a renewed emphasis on grass-roots marketing in the Internet era. [C1.]
 TIMES UNDER PRESSURE Two hedge funds have mounted a strong challenge to The New York Times Company's investment decisions, including its commitment to the struggling newspaper industry beyond the flagship New York Times. [C1.]
 TV WITH KEYBOARD ATTACHED The NBC sitcom ''The Office'' is on the leading edge of a shift in entertainment viewing: watching television episodes on a computer screen is now a common activity for millions of consumers. [C1.]
 HOW TO GET SEEN ONLINE Online start-ups like Talk Market, co-founded by Amanda Eilian, left, are helping companies create inexpensive videos and commercials for distribution across the Internet. E-Commerce Report. [C6.]
 PRE-EMPTING THE PRIMARIES On the night of the Ohio and Texas primaries, NBC ran two hours of ''The Biggest Loser'' while CBS showed an episode of ''Big Brother'' and ABC did an hour of ''Just for Laughs'' along with some other can-miss TV. And on Fox it was an ''Idol'' night. What happened to network election coverage? The Media Equation: David Carr. [C1.]
 AN ECONOMICS OMNIBUS The best-selling author Michael Lewis has lent his name to a 1,472-page, 4.5-pound compilation of six classic works by Adam Smith, Thomas Malthus and other economists. [C4.]
 GRASS-ROOTS REPORTING Citizen journalism is the term used for an effort to encourage ordinary people to report the news directly over the Internet, but many of the people being trained to do that through a Knight Foundation grant are not citizens. Link by Link: Noam Cohen. [C3.]
 FILMMAKERS, MEET WATCHERS A new Web site is seeking to give aspiring filmmakers a vote in which films get made in the first place, along with some say in the script and the casting. [C4.]
 MOONWALKING IN THE STREETSSony BMG is using an unconventional campaign of street theater to promote the 25th anniversary of ''Thriller,'' the Michael Jackson album. Advertising. [C6.]
 ANOTHER DVD FORMAT No sooner has the battle for the next-generation high-definition DVD format ended, with Blu-ray triumphing over HD DVD, than a new contender has emerged. [C5.]
 The president of Sony Electronics expects a slow and steady decline in the prices of Blu-ray players, but no DVD-like collapse. Bits. [C5.]
 BLOOD DONATION BY FACEBOOK A New York-area nonprofit organization hopes to use Facebook to better coordinate where and when people donate blood in response to shortages and crises while encouraging broader donation over all. [C2.]
 A HOLOCAUST GAME When a British video game developer posted a description on his blog of a Holocaust-themed game he is writing, the reaction was swift and visceral. [C4.]
 BUYING BY BOOKMARK The most valuable kind of Web site visitor didn't get there by using a search engine or clicking on an ad. Drilling Down. [C3.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (87%); BLUE LASER DISC TECHNOLOGY (87%); CD & DVD DRIVES (83%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); WRITERS (75%); JOURNALISM (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (74%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (71%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (69%); BLOOD BANKS (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); VISUAL ARTISTS (65%); WEB SITES (63%); CITIZEN JOURNALISM (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (56%); BLOOD DONATIONS (50%); BESTSELLERS (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (84%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%); FACEBOOK INC (50%); SONY ELECTRONICS INC (50%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (84%); HPQ (NYSE) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3631 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCES (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JACKSON (66%); ADAM SMITH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008



255 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: Ameriprise and MasterCard In Deal to Offer Credit Cards

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The asset manager Ameriprise Financial Services is pairing up with MasterCard to become a credit card lender for the first time, the two companies plan to announce on Monday.
 It looks like a tough time to be entering the credit card business. Because of the housing slump and a rebound in bankruptcies, default and delinquency rates are climbing from what had been historically low levels. 
 But companies still regard the card business as lucrative, particularly when it aims at big spenders, as the deal illustrates.
 For Ameriprise, whose more than two million clients are mostly wealthy, underwriting looks fairly low-risk. The benefits are luring and retaining customers through rewards programs, said Abu Arif, vice president and general manager of payments and deposits for Ameriprise Bank.
 ''The timing for us is actually pretty good,'' Mr. Arif said. He said Ameriprise considered many card processors, but MasterCard's World Elite program -- which offers perks like airport club access and the luxury travel service Virtuoso -- were particularly attractive selling points.
 And for MasterCard, the advantage is gaining a bit more market share in the affluent segment. Card processors like MasterCard and Visa earn their profits from the fees they charge card issuers and merchants for using their network. The more cardholders spend, the more money they make.
 ''The affluent segment is one that MasterCard has been making investments in as a customer segment,'' said Bill Mathis, MasterCard's executive vice president for relationship management. ''Ameriprise Financial is a natural in that regard -- they do appeal to customers at the higher end of the income spectrum.''
 Financial terms of the deal were not disclosed.
 Ameriprise will issue its clients both MasterCard credit cards and debit cards. The credit cards will have interest rates ranging from 7.5 percent to 11 percent. The credit lines will vary widely, depending on the client, and many will have no preset spending limits.
 Ameriprise was spun off from American Express in August 2005. Ameriprise still has a marketing relationship with American Express and offers AmEx cards to its clients, but AmEx does the underwriting.
 Barclaycard US will be the service provider for Ameriprise's account acquisition, marketing and other services. For the fourth quarter of 2007, Ameriprise posted a 49 percent jump in profit, in part because of its growing wealthy client business. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (92%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AFFLUENT MARKET (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CUSTOMER RETENTION STRATEGY (75%); LOYALTY MARKETING (75%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (74%); MARKET SHARE (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (66%); DEBIT CARDS (66%)

COMPANY: AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (96%); MASTERCARD INC (95%); VISA INC (84%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (84%)

TICKER: AMP (NYSE) (96%); MA (NYSE) (95%); V (NYSE) (84%); AXP (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (96%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (96%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (95%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (95%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008



256 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: TV Puts An Odd Lens On Politics

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: Carr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Last Tuesday, millions of viewers were riveted by the wrestling match in Ohio and gunfight in Texas between Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, not to mention by the unlikely coronation of the conservative bugbear John McCain as the Republican nominee. 
 Among those watching? Brian Williams, Charlie Gibson and Katie Couric. 
 Instead of election coverage, NBC ran two hours of ''The Biggest Loser'' while CBS showed an episode of ''Big Brother'' and ABC did an hour of ''Just for Laughs'' along with some other can-miss TV. 
 It was an ''Idol'' night on Fox -- at least people were voting -- so you have to wonder why the other networks didn't turn their news divisions loose on a huge primary night in the name of civic interest and perhaps a little brand building. 
 ''Networks have pretty much left the field,'' said Lawrence K. Grossman, a former president of NBC News. ''And what did they skip the coverage for?''
 CBS executives told The New York Observer that they wanted a debate for Katie Couric, their struggling $15 million-a-year anchor. 
 But they had a clean shot at showing her live with a running political story, and chose ''Big Brother'' along with repeats of ''NCIS'' and something called ''Jericho'' instead.
 Don't worry, I'm not here to point a crooked finger at the inequities of the present and reminisce about the glories of the past, those nights when Uncle Walter gave us a civics lesson before tucking us in to bed. On Super Tuesday, ABC ran three hours of coverage in prime time and got clobbered for its efforts. 
 ''I think that the people who are interested in the campaigns have lots of places to get good information. They are just not getting it from places that were considered mandatory 20 years ago,'' said C. Robert Zelnick, an ABC News veteran and the chairman of the journalism department at Boston University. 
 There is a lot to be admired on the cable news dial. Wolf Blitzer seamlessly manages all the crisscross on CNN. Fox's Brit Hume has a quick grasp of the moment, and on MSNBC, Chris Matthews has never got over his boyhood crush on democracy. 
 But it is worth pointing out that since political coverage has migrated to the cable networks, the tenor and texture of campaign reporting are changing as well -- there have been leaps in presentation and diversity, but it more closely resembles a political caucus than straight news coverage. Stentorian anchors taking feeds from veteran reporters who had been traveling with the campaigns have been replaced by flashy sets stuffed to the brim with gadgets and experts, mainly party hacks and ex-insiders who have had their access revoked. 
 CNN, which endlessly promotes itself as having ''the best political team,'' had so many panelists last Tuesday that one of them, Bill Bennett, wondered whether they were in violation of New York laws governing student-teacher ratios. 
 One reason for the pile-up is economics: ''It's a cheap way to cover elections and draw viewers. But it is a room full of talking heads,'' said Ken Bode, a professor of journalism at DePauw University and a former reporter at NBC.
 Even some of the people who are in charge of taming the lions want to have their red meat and eat it, too. Lou Dobbs served as a neutral ringmaster of the CNN panels Tuesday, but his own CNN show is pretty much talk radio rendered visible. On Thursday night, he suggested the president might be in need of impeachment and the Congress a recall, and he railed against the ''idiots'' in various federal bureaucracies. 
 Mr. Dobbs has enough of a discernible political agenda that he has even entered the campaign lexicon as a descriptive noun: ''Lou Dobbs independents.'' All of three of the current presidential candidates are wrong on his big issue -- the frantic belief that America is being overwhelmed by immigrant hordes. When he approached the Hispanic members of the political panels last Tuesday, you half-expected him to check their visas before asking a question.
 Given his bracing ideology, you have to wonder if moderating is the best use of his time. One of his many panelists claimed to be ''embarrassed'' to share a network with Mr. Dobbs, but would not say so on the record for fear of being culled from the herd. 
 In fact, Mr. Dobbs clearly has had some trouble making the adjustment. After promising a ''pithy glimpse of the truth'' from the panel, the moderator and Mr. Bennett tangled over Nafta for several excruciating minutes while nine other panelists waited in the wings and all across America, viewers wondered when the next Cialis ad was on. But all of the excitement during Tuesday's extraordinary unfolding coverage came to a sudden halt for the argument between Mr. Bennett and Mr. Dobbs, which brought to mind something you see on nature shows with large mammals baring tusks and smashing bellies on an ice floe. 
 Over at MSNBC, the network is performing a similar bit of transformational magic with Keith Olbermann, the host of ''Countdown'' who plays left field almost every game, except when there is a primary. Then he is dressed more conservatively (hey Keith, lose the pink tie) and is oddly cast as Chris Matthews's cool-headed wingman. 
 On those nights, when Mr. Olbermann asks rhetorically and soberly whether the support of the current president will help or hurt Mr. McCain, are we supposed to forget that the next night he will treat the leader of the free world with the same care that a terrier gives a chew toy? 
 Mr. Olbermann's presence gives the set some urbanity and offers a point of entry for young viewers that is clearly working if you look at the ratings. But though he credibly plays a political eunuch/anchor in spurts, he is still more Jon Stewart than Tom Brokaw. 
 Oddly, given its operational penchants, the only cable network to play the coverage relatively straight is Fox News. During what would have been his hour on Tuesday night, Bill O'Reilly was brought in, unleashed from the trunk of the car for 10 minutes and then thanked by Brit Hume for handing off his time before he left. And is it just me, or is Karl Rove one of the best things on television news right now? Graceful, careful and generous -- he leaves the viewer better informed and wondering what he has done with the real Karl Rove.
 There will be a huge lull in the action from now until April 22 -- whoever thought we'd be looking forward to the Pennsylvania primary this year? That will offer CNN time to build room for more panels until the set resembles a high school quiz show. And who knows -- with all the advance notice and an election rife with the kind of engagement America has not seen in decades, some of the broadcast networks might actually show up for the biggest story of the year. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 11, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The Media Equation column in Business Day on Monday, about the major networks' decreasing coverage of presidential campaigns, misstated the academic position of C. Robert Zelnick, who commented on the trend. Mr. Zelnick, a veteran of ABC News, is a professor of journalism at Boston University, but is no longer chairman of the department. (That position is held by Lou Ureneck, a former deputy managing editor of The Philadelphia Inquirer.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); NEWS REPORTING (76%); JOURNALISM (75%); BRANDING (53%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (72%); KATIE COURIC (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008



257 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey's Republican Problem

 BODY:
Once upon a time New Jersey's Republicans fielded moderate candidates for high office and won. A notable example was Clifford Case, who served four terms in the United States Senate but was beaten by a conservative challenger in the 1978 Republican primary. 
 In the wake of the withdrawal of Anne Estabrook from the race for the Senate nomination because of poor health, New Jersey Republicans are left with only two declared candidates vying for the chance to run against the incumbent Democrat, Frank Lautenberg. One, State Senator Joseph Pennacchio, is a little-known conservative from a safe Republican district in Morris County; the other, Murray Sabrin, is a college professor and former Libertarian who in recent years has adopted a radical-right position on social as well as economic issues.
 After eight years of failed right-wing Republican policies, New Jersey Republicans owe their voters a viable moderate choice. Mr. Lautenberg has spent nearly a quarter-century in the Senate, and has a strong moderate-to-liberal record (with the notable exception of voting in 2006 for the disastrous law that suspended habeas corpus for inmates of Guantanamo Bay). Polls during the last several months, however, have shown that a majority of New Jerseyans are uneasy about the prospect of his serving another term. If re-elected, he would be 90 at the end of the term.
 It's not as if New Jersey lacked for moderate Republicans. Former Gov. Thomas Kean, who was chairman of the Sept. 11 commission, has considered running for the Senate in the past but backed down. At 36, Bill Baroni, who commands significant support from organized labor, is viewed by Republican moderates as their hope for the future, but he was just elected in November to his first term in the State Senate. 
 There is a great deal to admire about Mr. Lautenberg, who has been an outspoken critic of the war in Iraq. But Mr. Lautenberg's accomplishments do not entitle him to a free pass for a fifth term. New Jersey's Republicans owe it to their state to come up with a credible moderate candidate to run against him.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); HABEAS CORPUS (75%); IRAQ WAR (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

PERSON: FRANK LAUTENBERG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%); CUBA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008



258 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: McCain's Daunting Task

BYLINE: By WILLIAM KRISTOL

 BODY:
Buried inside Sunday's papers was a noteworthy election result. In a special election to replace former Speaker Dennis Hastert, an Illinois Republican, first-time Democratic candidate Bill Foster emerged victorious. George Bush easily carried the district in 2004, as has every recent G.O.P. presidential candidate. 
 This Democratic pickup suggests that, for now, we're in an electoral environment more like 2006 than 2004. Foster's eight-percentage-point improvement on John Kerry's 2004 performance in the district mirrors the general shift in the electorate from 2004, when Bush won and the Republicans held Congress, to 2006, when the Democrats took over Congress and ran on average about eight points ahead of the G.O.P. Most surveys have shown the Democrats retaining that sizable advantage over the last 16 months. Saturday's special election would appear to confirm these polls. 
 This isn't encouraging for G.O.P. prospects in 2008. Nor is this: It's rare for a party to win a third consecutive term in the White House. The only time it's been done since World War II was in 1988. Then the incumbent, Ronald Reagan, had a job approval rating on Election Day in the high 50s. George Bush looks likely to remain stuck in the 30s. Factor in the prospect of a recession (the bad housing and job market reports at the end of last week were politically chilling) and the fact that a large majority already thinks the country's going in the wrong direction. Add to the mix a huge turnout so far in the Democratic presidential primaries, far above that for the Republican contests, even when both parties still had competitive races.
 As former Obama foreign policy adviser Samantha Power would say: Ergh!
 Nor should Republicans be too cheered by the prospect of a drawn-out and bitter Democratic nomination battle. That battle is personal, not ideological -- and, Republican hopes to the contrary notwithstanding, Democrats will unite behind Barack Obama or Hillary Clinton, or behind a ticket with the two of them.
 Don't Obama and Clinton have more vulnerabilities than a typical nominee? Perhaps. Obama is more liberal and inexperienced than any winning presidential candidate in modern times. Clinton is a problematic carrier of a message of change. And both have taken positions appropriate for the Democratic primaries -- for a precipitous withdrawal from Iraq, against making it easier for telecommunications companies to cooperate with the government in spying on terrorists, for tax hikes and against a ban on partial-birth abortion -- that should cause difficulties in a general election.
 A sustained assault highlighting these weaknesses of Obama or Clinton could be effective. In 1976, Gerald Ford was the Republican nominee in similarly inauspicious circumstances. He trailed by more than 20 percentage points, but hammered away all fall at Jimmy Carter's inexperience and liberalism, and almost closed the gap.
 But this time, too, such an attack probably wouldn't be enough. Luckily, John McCain has more to offer as a nominee than Gerald Ford did. McCain can feature an amazing story of personal courage, a record of independence and accomplishment as a senator, and courage and foresight with respect to the most important foreign policy decision of the last couple of years -- the surge in Iraq. If any Republican can defend conservative principles and policies, at once acknowledging Bush's failures while pivoting to present his own biography and agenda to the voters, McCain can.
 Still, he'll have to take risks. He could embrace a ''Sam's Club'' domestic-policy reform agenda, oriented toward the legitimate concerns of middle-class and working-class families, even if it gives country-club Republicans heartburn. (He could also criticize corporate boards that have rewarded C.E.O.'s lavishly as they've managed their companies into the ground.)
 He could explain forthrightly that we'll have to stay in Iraq for quite a while, even if this means challenging the American people to spurn the feel-good promises of irresponsible Democrats. And he could mock the narcissism of the Obama supporters, who think they're the ones we've been waiting for -- by pointing out that their contemporaries serving in the armed forces are the ones making real sacrifices on our behalf.
 Perhaps the most obvious way McCain could upend the normal dynamics of this year's election would be a bold vice presidential choice. He could pick a hawkish and principled Democrat like Joe Lieberman. He could reach beyond the usual bevy of elected officials by tapping either David Petraeus or Raymond Odierno -- the two generals who together, in an amazing demonstration of leadership and competence, turned the war in Iraq around last year. He could persuade the most impressive conservative in American public life, Clarence Thomas, to join the ticket. There are other unorthodox possibilities.
 But whomever he picks, and whatever issues he emphasizes, McCain should keep following Danton's injunction: ''Il faut de l'audace, encore de l'audace, toujours de l'audace.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); TAX LAW (70%); WORLD WAR II (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%); TERRORISM (50%); TAX INCREASES (50%); FOREIGN POLICY (50%); ABORTION (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BILL FOSTER (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); SAMANTHA POWER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008



259 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC INDICATORS Another reading on inflation will come on Friday with the Consumer Price Index for February.
 Other reports include wholesale trade inventories for January (Monday); the trade deficit for January (Tuesday); import prices for February, retail sales for February and business inventories for January (Thursday); and the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index (Friday). 
 COMPANY REPORTS Earnings reports this week will focus heavily on retailers.
 Reports will come from Blackstone, Foot Locker and Hovnanian Enterprises (Monday); Dick's Sporting Goods, J. Crew, Kroger and Take-Two Interactive Software (Tuesday); American Eagle Outfitters, Men's Wearhouse, and Talbots (Wednesday); Aeropostale, Dillard's and Volkswagen (Thursday); and AnnTaylor Stores and Liz Claiborne (Friday).
 COMPANY MEETINGSTexas Instruments will give its midquarter update (Monday).
 Bear Stearns will have its annual media and marketing conference in Palm Beach, Fla. (Monday through Wednesday).
 McGraw-Hill will have a media conference in New York (Wednesday and Thursday).
 ET CETERAJohn C. Malone, above, of Liberty Media goes to court in Wilmington, Del., on Monday to try to halt Barry Diller's plans to split IAC/InterActiveCorp into five pieces.
 It is fashion week in Los Angeles (Monday through Friday).
 Leaders of the European Union will gather in Brussels for a two-day summit (Thursday and Friday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); IMPORT PRICES (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); RETAIL SALES (72%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (71%); MEN'S CLOTHING (69%); FASHION DESIGNERS (68%)

COMPANY: TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (71%); IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (68%); HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (57%); DICK'S SPORTING GOODS INC (57%); AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC (57%); MEN'S WEARHOUSE INC (57%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%); ANN INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

TICKER: TTWO (NASDAQ) (71%); IACI (NASDAQ) (68%); HOV (NYSE) (57%); DKS (NYSE) (57%); AEO (NYSE) (57%); MW (NYSE) (57%); ANN (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (71%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (68%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (68%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (68%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (57%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (57%); NAICS451110 SPORTING GOODS STORES (57%); SIC5091 SPORTING & RECREATIONAL GOODS & SUPPLIES (57%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (57%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (57%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (57%); NAICS448150 CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (57%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (57%); SIC5699 MISC. APPAREL & ACCESSORY STORES (57%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (57%); SIC5611 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORY STORES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (56%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (56%)

PERSON: BARRY DILLER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (51%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (50%) MICHIGAN, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (69%); DELAWARE, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (90%); BELGIUM (52%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008



260 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Seeks New Outlet After Radio Show Shake-Up

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL; Ray Rivera contributed reporting.

 BODY:
There was the joke about shooting the police commissioner. 
 There was the defense of illegal immigrants, because who else ''takes care of the greens and the fairways in your golf course?'' 
 There was the concern that pushing them out of the country would make the United States a ''piranha,'' not a pariah, in the eyes of the world. And there was the description of a tree the Parks Department was cloning as being the one that ''George Washington supposedly slept under and had an apple fall on his head, or maybe it was Newton, or one of those guys.''
 On his weekly call-in radio show with John Gambling on WABC-AM, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg may not have kept up the Wild West tone of his combative predecessor, Rudolph W. Giuliani -- he never berated a caller as ''deranged'' or told a woman whose son had been shot dead by the police that she should question his upbringing. 
 Nonetheless, almost every Friday from 10 to 11 a.m. since Feb. 1, 2002, the highly choreographed, fiercely private billionaire provided entertainment of a different sort, nudging back the curtain on his prickly personality, his gaffe-prone sense of humor and even his occasionally devil-may-care eating habits. 
 ''Me, I like a big hamburger and fries dipped in mayonnaise,'' he said in 2004, urging New Yorkers to ''live a little'' despite city efforts to make them adopt healthier habits. ''I like some mayo and mustard, and ketchup and pickles and lettuce and tomato on my hamburger.''
 But the tradition of the Friday morning talk with the mayor, begun by Mr. Giuliani in 1994, has ended for now. Mr. Gambling was fired amid budget cuts at the station and Mr. Bloomberg has not accepted an offer to appear on the new show in the same time slot, which features Curtis Sliwa as host and has more of a national focus.
 On the first installment on Friday, Mr. Sliwa, introduced to the beats of ''In Da Club'' by 50 Cent, lamented the loss of Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Gambling. He joked that he planned to camp outside Mr. Bloomberg's East 79th Street town house, cook ''Shabbos chicken'' and ''break flatbread'' with the mayor's press secretary, Stu Loeser, an observant Jew, until Mr. Bloomberg agreed to return to the show. 
 Officials at WABC and its parent company, the Citadel Broadcasting Corporation, did not return telephone calls. But Michael Harrison, publisher of Talkers magazine, an industry publication, said the change was part of a larger trend of traditional radio stations looking to increase their national appeal to counter the threats of scarce advertising dollars, a souring economy, budget cuts and the rise of the Internet. 
 ''There's no question that Curtis Sliwa would be a hotter property in national syndication,'' Mr. Harrison said. ''John Gambling is more of a traditional entity that New Yorkers know institutionally because his father and his grandfather were both on the radio.''
 For his part, Mr. Gambling said that he planned to return to the airwaves, and would love to be back with Mr. Bloomberg, but that he first needed to finalize his terms with WABC.
 ''It's hard to understand when you lose your job when you're working on all eight cylinders,'' he said, adding that he had taken the show from 17th to 6th place in its time slot since 2000. ''Not only were the ratings excellent but the sales, the revenues generated, were literally in the top performers on the radio station.'' 
 In the meantime, Mr. Loeser said, Mr. Bloomberg is fielding offers from other outlets, and is looking for a venue ''to talk about what we're trying to do for New Yorkers, make our case directly to them and also get feedback from them.'' Those include NY1 television and WABC-AM, as well as other radio stations. 
 New York mayors have been taking to the airwaves for generations. Fiorello H. La Guardia had a weekly program in the 1940s that he used to scold reporters and bookies while telling stories about his family, doling out shopping and cooking tips and reading Dick Tracy comics. More recently, Edward I. Koch made the radio and television rounds while showing up in movie cameos and in the host spot on ''Saturday Night Live.'' And David N. Dinkins was a fixture on the talk-radio circuit, making several appearances each week.
 But ''Live From City Hall'' became an institution. Conceived by Mr. Giuliani as a way to talk directly to citizens about their frustrations with city services, it has provided a cozy forum for Mr. Bloomberg to make consumer-friendly news announcements, help people navigate city government (hint: call 311) and drum up support for pet projects. 
 Occasionally, the mayor has used his appearances on the show, where Mr. Gambling provided a more sympathetic and controlled atmosphere than a news conference, to concede a mistake, like when he abruptly apologized and canceled parking tickets issued during a snowstorm in February 2007. 
 And there were times that Mr. Bloomberg took on specific problems, Mr. Gambling said, recalling an instance when a man complained that he had received a parking ticket for his pickup truck, which was treated as a commercial truck rather than a passenger vehicle. Mr. Bloomberg said he would look into it, Mr. Gambling said, and the next week announced that the ticket had been canceled. 
 Listeners were also given glimpses of the mayor's emotional life, on his love of being rich -- ''Am I thrilled that I started out working in a parking lot and made a lot of money? Yes.'' -- and on his dislike of having it pointed out. ''It's annoying to me that people even use it,'' he said of the billionaire tag. ''Listen, I started out, I made it honestly. It's supposed to be the great American dream, and then they want to tar you with it.'' 
 And he gave this explanation for being irritated by the interruption of ringing cellphones: ''Nobody ever calls me,'' he said in early 2003. ''I mean, that's always annoying. I'm the mayor and I never get a call, and there's somebody always standing in the room with me. They get 10 calls. Who calls them? I can't figure it out.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); GOLF (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); MAYORS (88%); BUDGETS (85%); SHOOTINGS (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (74%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (62%); HOLDING COMPANIES (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (62%); PARENT COMPANIES (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: CITADEL BROADCASTING CORP (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (61%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (61%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (53%); 50 CENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008



261 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: One Clinton Hometown Sees Her in Images Befitting a '50s Movie

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: SCRANTON, Pa. 

 BODY:
She is about 3 1/2 years old, a prim little blonde in a light dress, road-testing her white anklets and Mary Janes. Her mother, slim and stylish in a 1940s fitted suit, hat and strapped white heels, clutches her hand and guides her down some outdoor steps.
 Then the daughter breaks free and rushes exuberantly toward the camera, an uninhibited assertion by little Hillary Rodham that she is ready for her close-up.
 The scene unspools in a grainy black-and-white home movie, circa 1951. Hazel Price, 82, who used to live next door to the Rodhams here on Diamond Street, recently dug it up, providing fresh evidence of the Rodham roots in Northeast Pennsylvania. It is destined, no doubt, for wider distribution in advance of next month's Pennsylvania Democratic presidential primary between Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama. 
 When Mrs. Clinton comes to Pennsylvania on Monday, her first visit to the state after winning Ohio and Texas last week, her first stop will be Scranton, where her familial ties extend deeper than they do in Park Ridge, Ill., the Chicago suburb where she grew up. Look for the image shapers to link the values of this gritty region -- where her grandfather, descended from Welsh coal miners, raised his family -- to her character and especially her perseverance.
 ''She's tough,'' Christopher Doherty, Scranton's mayor, said in an interview. ''That's a real Scranton trait. That's an anthracite trait.''
 And look for the politicos to do everything they can to pump up enthusiasm here over the local girl made good -- and perhaps displace ''The Office,'' at least temporarily, as Scranton's claim to cultural fame (the television show's fictional office is located in Scranton). Steve Corbett, a local radio personality, says the area is more ''All in the Family'' than ''The Office'' anyway.
 The region is a major Democratic stronghold. Ed Mitchell, a Democratic consultant in nearby Wilkes-Barre, said it is central to the Clinton strategy for winning the state. ''They need a big, big turnout here to offset the turnout for Obama in Philly and the upscale suburbs,'' Mr. Mitchell said.
 He said that even if Mrs. Clinton did not have local ties, the region would probably vote for her because its demographics closely match those of voters in other states who have supported her: white, female, over 50, Catholic, blue collar and on the lower end of the scales measuring education and affluence. Polling suggests that those voters favor her in part because of her goal of providing universal health care, her blueprint for the economy and the better economy during Bill Clinton's administration.
 Her supporters here hope that her local roots will help her do something she rarely does on the stump: connect the dots between those policies and her life.
 The Clintons, who highlighted their connection to Pennsylvania only glancingly when Mr. Clinton was running for president, have been regular visitors here. During the eight years of the Clinton presidency, they gave 10,000 tickets to local residents for VIP tours of the White House, 1,000 tickets to Easter egg rolls on the White House lawn and 1,000 tickets to their two inaugural balls in 1992 and 1996, according to Jamie Brazil, 48, a longtime family friend and political consultant who owns a local ski resort.
 Mrs. Clinton's brothers, Hugh and Tony, return often to their grandfather's lake cabin (with Tony becoming involved in a skirmish a few years ago that drew local headlines). A few days ago, Hugh Rodham held a reception here for Clinton volunteers.
 Mayor Doherty is among those fired up by the possibility of having a president who ''knows the difference between Bulls Head and Weston Field,'' he said. ''And the Rodhams embrace Scranton. It's part of who they are.'' 
 He added: ''People here, we don't live by home runs, we live by singles. And we take it day to day. We watch our pocketbook. We care about small-town things.'' He said people know each other going back three generations; Mr. Corbett said they are bound by ''tribalism.''
 Mrs. Clinton's great-grandparents came to Scranton in the 1880s in steerage from Wales. Her grandfather, Hugh S. Rodham, began work as a boy at the Scranton Lace Company, once the world's largest producer of Nottingham lace, now a shuttered hulking behemoth, on track to be redeveloped as an arts space and apartments. Mr. Rodham and his wife, Hannah, raised three boys here, including Hillary's father, Hugh E. Rodham, who went to Penn State University, where he played football (and made bathtub gin, according to his daughter).
 ''The Scranton of my father's youth was a rough industrial city of brick factories, textile mills, coal mines, rail yards and wooden duplex houses,'' Mrs. Clinton wrote in her memoir, ''Living History.''
 Her father graduated from college during the Depression and soon thereafter hopped a freight train for Chicago, where he found a job selling drapery fabrics. In her book, Mrs. Clinton says that the ostensible reason her father left Scranton was for work, but she speculates that the real reason was to escape from his overbearing mother. In any case, he would drive back to Scranton most weekends to give his mother his paycheck.
 And once he had a family, he brought them back regularly, for holidays and summers. They spent parts of every August at Lake Winola, 20 miles north of here, at the cabin that her grandfather built by hand in 1910 or 1921, depending on who is telling the story. For a long time, it had no heat and no indoor shower, and the future first lady loved it, playing pinochle on the porch and learning to fish and even use a gun. ''My father taught me to shoot a gun behind the cottage, and we practiced aiming at cans or rocks,'' she wrote. 
 Today the house, which sits on a hillside across a two-lane road from the lake, is surrounded by others and its once-unobstructed view of the water is partially blocked by more homes. Inside, there are no traces of Mrs. Clinton's life in the public spotlight save one: a framed yellowing newspaper article, hanging slightly askew, written in 1981 after Mr. Clinton had regained the governor's office in Arkansas after losing it. The article was about how Mrs. Clinton, who had called herself Hillary Rodham, would be bowing to irritated voters and using her husband's name from then on.
 Her father also brought his children back to Scranton to be christened at the Court Street United Methodist Church. All of them were baptized in a christening gown that Mrs. Clinton eventually donated to the Smithsonian Institution. The gown itself is visible in the old home movie, which was filmed by Mrs. Price's husband, Bill, on the occasion of the baptism of Mrs. Clinton's brother, Hugh.
 Mrs. Price described Mrs. Clinton as bright and inquisitive. ''If we were playing a game and it was new to her, you'd have to explain it thoroughly and then she would have questions about, 'Are you sure that it's this way?' Or, 'Maybe I should do it that way?' '' Mrs. Price chuckled in mock despair: '' 'Hillary, do it this way.' ''
 Mrs. Clinton's father died in 1993 in Little Rock. His family brought him back for a final service at the Court Street church, and buried him in the Rodham plot at Washburn Street Cemetery. The Rodhams reconvened in May at the same church for the baptism of Tony Rodham's daughter. The gown was retrieved from the Smithsonian for the ceremony.
 While the region is Democratic, it is conservative and strongly against abortion rights. But Mr. Mitchell, the political consultant, said he thought voters here would overlook this issue with Mrs. Clinton, just as they have with Gov. Edward G. Rendell, Senator Arlen Specter and Mr. Clinton himself.
 ''Given their druthers, they'd prefer a pro-life candidate,'' Mr. Mitchell said, ''but she'll be O.K. on that. She might have more of a problem with men on gun control.''
 But perhaps, in the way that political campaigns have, the detail will emerge that Mrs. Clinton herself learned to shoot with her father behind their house at the lake.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mayor Christopher Doherty said he would like having a president who ''knows the difference between Bulls Head and Weston Field
'' Hazel Price, 82, who used to live next door to the Rodham family on Diamond Street in Scranton, recently found the home movie
Hillary Rodham, about age 3 1/2, descending the steps with her mother in a home movie
The Rodham family lake house 20 miles north of Scranton, Pa., has a view, now somewhat obstructed, of Lake Winola. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 PRICE FAMILY) MAP: Hillary Rodham Clinton has roots in Scranton, Pa. Map of Scranton, Pa. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (69%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (68%); SUBURBS (66%); COAL MINING (65%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BULLS (59%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCRANTON, PA, USA (95%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008



262 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: The (High) Road to the White House

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Playing by Clinton Rules'' (column, March 7):
 David Brooks contends that Senator Barack Obama cannot go negative or he ''will betray the core theory of his campaign'' and lose everything. 
 I agree, but there is a difference between going negative and leveling reasoned attacks against one's opponent, attacks that focus not on Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton herself, but on her arguments and recent campaign tactics. 
 In conventional politics, going negative tends to involve tactics like vicious personal attacks or a distortion of an opponent's actual position. Sometimes going negative means manipulating voters' emotions. 
 But none of these techniques are required for Mr. Obama to ''get tough.'' Instead, he can level tougher but reasoned impersonal criticisms of Mrs. Clinton's policy proposals and campaign.
 ''Conventional'' politics is more than the deplorable, manipulative aspects that are too often its focus. Mr. Obama can ''get tough'' without going negative.
 Vincent Picciuto Washington, March 7, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks is right when he says that the weakest point of Barack Obama's campaign has been in explaining how his ''new politics would actually produce bread-and-butter benefits to people in places like Youngstown and Altoona.''
 One way Mr. Obama could accomplish that would be to be more forceful in linking one of his signature issues -- his superior judgment in opposing the disastrous war in Iraq from the beginning -- to the more than $3.6 trillion increase in the national debt under President Bush. 
 Americans as a whole are unaware of just how expensive the Iraq misadventure has been, particularly in combination with huge tax giveaways to the wealthy.
 Invite us to imagine how those trillions of dollars might better have been spent. Then ending the war will no longer seem a geopolitical abstraction, but an economic imperative. 
 Christopher Phelps Mansfield, Ohio, March 7, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks warns Barack Obama about the dangers of going negative.
 Asking for the production of income tax returns, presidential papers and lists of donors to former President Bill Clinton's library and foundation is not going negative. 
 It is about transparency, the essence of good government. 
 The voters have a right to know all relevant information regarding Hillary Rodham Clinton so that they can make informed votes.
 Gerald H. Abrams New York, March 7, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I agree with David Brooks's analysis. I believe that Barack Obama needs to make statements on the character of the campaign without getting personal. 
 The aspect of claiming ''victimization'' when being challenged (such as the ''Ken Starr'' remark by an aide to Hillary Rodham Clinton) is not even adult, let alone presidential. 
 Of course, if Mr. Obama wished to play the game, he could accuse his opponent of using ''Lee Atwater attacks'' or, worse, ''Karl Rove attacks.''
 But I think all of us would rather have a person in our highest office who resolves conflicts than one who generates them. We don't need a fighter if the next four years means nothing but fighting.
 Alan Rotnemer Rockville, Md., March 7, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 Many attributes possessed by Senator Obama come to mind -- dignity, temperament, judgment, character, intelligence and role model for responsible fatherhood, to name but a few. But David Brooks asserts, ''New politics is all he's got.''
 Isn't that enough?
 Connie Allenbury Cambridge, Mass., March 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); IRAQ WAR (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); PUBLIC DEBT (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); INCOME TAX (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008



263 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; CASES WITHOUT BORDERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1617 words

HEADLINE: Psychotherapy for All: An Experiment

BYLINE: By DAVID KOHN

DATELINE: SIOLIM, India 

 BODY:
At the faded one-story medical clinic in this fishing and farming village, people with depression and anxiety typically got little or no attention. Busy doctors and nurses focused on physical ailments -- children with diarrhea, laborers with injuries, old people with heart trouble. Patients, fearful of the stigma connected to mental illness, were reluctant to bring up emotional problems. 
 Last year, two new workers arrived. Their sole task was to identify and treat patients suffering depression and anxiety. The workers found themselves busy. Almost every day, several new patients appeared. Depressed and anxious people now make up ''a sizable crowd'' at the clinic, said the doctor in charge, Anil Umraskar. 
 The patients talk about all sorts of troubles. ''Financial difficulties are there,'' said one of the new counselors, Medha Upadhye, 29. ''Interpersonal conflicts are there. Unemployment. Alcoholism is a major problem.'' 
 The clinic is at the forefront of a program that has the potential to transform mental health treatment in the developing world. Instead of doctors, the program trains laypeople to identify and treat depression and anxiety and sends them to six community health clinics in Goa, in western India.
 Depression and anxiety have long been seen as Western afflictions, diseases of the affluent. But new studies find that they are just as common in poor countries, with rates up to 20 percent in a given year.
 Researchers say that even in places with very poor people, the ailments require urgent attention. Severe depression can be as disabling as physical diseases like malaria, the researchers say, and can have serious economic effects. If a subsistence farmer is so depressed that he cannot get out of bed, neither he nor his children are likely to eat.
 In India, as in much of the developing world, depression and anxiety are rarely diagnosed or treated. With a population of more than one billion, India has fewer than 4,000 psychiatrists, one-tenth the United States total. Because most psychiatrists are clustered in a few urban areas, the problem is much worse elsewhere. 
 As a result, most Indians with mental illness go untreated, especially in poor and rural areas. ''There is a huge treatment gap for people with depression,'' said Dr. Vikram Patel of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, the psychiatrist who began the Siolim project. ''In most places in the developing world, 80 percent to 90 percent of people with severe depression don't receive adequate treatment.''
 For India, adding thousands of psychiatrists would take large sums of money and years of effort, resources unavailable to a developing country with many other health problems besides mental illness. By contrast, Dr. Patel's strategy costs relatively little and does not require legions of doctors.
 ''It's a really interesting, exciting thing he's doing,'' said Dr. Greg E. Simon, a researcher at the Center for Health Studies in Seattle. 
 Dr. Simon, a psychiatrist who studies mental health in the developing world, said the Goa strategy grew from a crucial idea. Unlike, say, heart disease and stroke, which can require expensive interventions, depression is relatively simple to diagnose and treat. Many studies have shown that talk therapy and antidepressants lead to significant improvement in most patients. 
 ''The fundamentals of helping people with depression are pretty low tech,'' Dr. Simon said. ''The core resource is humans,'' people who can identify patients and offer treatments.
 The Goa program, financed by the Wellcome Trust, is not the first using nonmedical workers to treat mental illness, but it is the largest. Almost 2,000 patients have been treated. Dr. Patel is conducting a randomized clinical trial to see whether the strategy works, the first time such a careful study has been run in the developing world. 
 If the research, which will finish in 2010, reports positive results, donors and governments are more likely to try it elsewhere in India and the world, Dr. Patel said, adding: ''This is the most important question in psychiatry. How do we scale up treatments to a population in a low-resource setting?'' 
 ''If you rolled this program out across India,'' Dr. Simon said, ''you'd be doing some good for a fifth of the world's population.'' 
 Dr. Patel, 43, grew up in Bombay, now Mumbai, and wanted to be a caterer. His middle-class parents insisted on a more respectable career. He went to medical school. 
 After completing training, he spent two years in Zimbabwe as a researcher. He hoped to prove that Western concepts of mental illness did not apply in the developing world. Instead, he came to the opposite conclusion, that the ailments were in fact just as common and just as treatable as in the West. 
 He now splits his time between London and Goa, where he runs a social welfare organization, Sangath, which means partnership in Hindi.
 Known in the West for its beautiful beaches, Goa is relatively wealthy by Indian standards. But most of its three million residents earn a few dollars a day, not enough to afford much medical care. Public health officials say that poverty can lead to alcoholism, domestic abuse and stress, all contributors to depression and anxiety.
 At government clinics like the one here, overworked doctors lack time and inclination to ask patients about mental health. Even clinicians who look for depression may miss it. For reasons that no one fully understands, depressed patients in the developing world often complain of physical symptoms like fatigue, headache and insomnia rather than emotional problems like sadness or regret.
 As a result, Dr. Patel said, depressed patients in Goa may receive unnecessary and expensive treatments that fail to address the underlying problem. For all those reasons, he said, most depression and anxiety remains undiagnosed. But they are common. A survey by Dr. Patel found that one in three adults seeking care at public health clinics in Goa were depressed or anxious. Dr. Neerja Chowdhury, a psychiatrist at Sangath who is helping manage the project, said, ''That might be an underrepresentation.'' 
 The program began in 2005, hiring 12 recent high school or college graduates who lacked medical backgrounds. Six ''health assistants'' received a week of training, and six ''health counselors'' had three months of training. The workers -- paid the equivalent of $100 to $200 a month, significantly less than Indian psychiatrists -- were sent to the six clinics. 
 Five days a week, the assistants screen almost every patient who arrives at the door. Pregnant women, minors and emergency cases are excluded. The screening is created for the program. It includes questions about physical symptoms, as well as emotional problems. 
 A patient meeting the criteria for mental illness is immediately sent to the health counselor, who provides a straightforward explanation of depression and anxiety and offers a range of treatments like talk therapy, yoga and, in conjunction with a doctor, antidepressant medication. Patients return every few weeks for follow-ups.
 The screening and first consultation typically take a half-hour. In the old system, the few patients with diagnoses of depression were referred to a psychiatrist at one of two state mental hospitals. Dr. Patel said many patients failed to show up for appointments because they could not afford to take time from work or pay for transportation. 
 Most are also apparently wary of visiting a mental hospital. In India, the stigma of mental illness remains strong. To minimize the problem, health workers avoid using the words ''mental illness,'' ''depression'' or ''anxiety'' with patients, relying on more commonly used words like ''strain'' and ''tension.'' 
 The patients ''are happy to talk,'' Dr. Sudipto Chatterjee, a psychiatrist at Sangath, said, ''as long as you stay away from the idea of mental illness.'' 
 Dr. Chatterjee helped draw up the program and oversees the screeners and counselors. He said they not only diagnosed as well as doctors but were generally better listeners, partly because they have more time. 
 Psychiatrists usually ''have five minutes to see a patient,'' Dr. Chatterjee said. 
 In a society where many people have no place to share their worries, the effects of therapy can be striking. On a recent Saturday morning at the Siolim clinic, Ms. Upadhye, the health counselor, sat in her closet-size plywood-wall office, trying to stay cool under a negligible breeze from a tiny plastic fan, when a psychiatric patient arrived for a return visit. 
 A housemaid in her 50s who wore large glasses, bright bangles on her wrists and a light blue sari, the patient had originally reported physical problems like headache, insomnia and pains but had been given a diagnosis of depression. As Ms. Upadhye listened, the woman let loose a flood of words.
 Speaking in Konkani, the predominant Goan language, she told the counselor that she was not getting along with her four children, especially her son, who had recently beaten her up in a drunken rage. She said she had no one to talk to. Holding tightly to her handkerchief, she began to cry.
 Within minutes, she began to relax. Her expression loosened. 
 ''I feel better when I tell my problems to somebody else,'' she said. 
 Ms. Upadhye ended by reminding the woman to keep taking her antidepressant medicine and to check in regularly.
 After the session, Ms. Upadhye reflected that just listening to her patients made a big difference. 
 ''I feel like I'm doing something, just giving them time to ventilate,'' she said. ''They can tell their problems, they can share their feelings.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: VILLAGE IN GOA: Two health workers' sole task in Siolim is to identify and treat patients' depression and anxiety.(pg. F1)
 SMALL CLINICS: Dr. Sudipto Chatterjee, psychiatrist, and Namrata Pagi, health worker, at Canacona hospital. Bindiya Chodankar, below, at door to tiny office in Siolim.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID KOHN)(pg. F6) MAP Map details area of Siolim, India. (pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL ILLNESS (91%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); DEPRESSION (90%); NURSES & NURSING (90%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); PSYCHIATRY (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); MALARIA (78%); TROPICAL MEDICINE (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST INDIA (79%); GOA, INDIA (58%) INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2008



264 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: Havens for Tax Evasion

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Liechtenstein's Friendly Bankers'' (editorial, Feb. 25):
 You were certainly correct to condemn Liechtenstein for providing a safe haven for tax evasion, money laundering and fraud. Liechtenstein has been a notorious tax haven for decades. 
 In 1968, when I was United States attorney in Manhattan, the office indicted two sales representatives who were later convicted of evading taxes on $3 million of income (which was real money at the time) by diverting commissions to a Liechtenstein company. But in the world of tax havens, Liechtenstein is a relatively minor player. 
 On its Web site, Liechtenstein reports having 161 billion in Swiss francs (equal to 155 billion United States dollars at current rates) on deposit in 15 banks in 2006. By contrast, the Cayman Islands boasts that it has 1.9 trillion United States dollars on deposit in 281 banks, including 40 of the world's top 50 banks. Bank deposits in the Caymans have increased by $500 billion in the last 18 months and now amount to four times the total deposits in all the banks in New York City. 
 The Caymans, notorious for their bank secrecy laws and lack of supervision over financial markets, have figured in many major financial scandals. For example, they were the nominal home of Long Term Capital, the giant hedge fund that collapsed in 1998. Enron Corporation used 441 Cayman affiliates to hide $2.9 billion in losses. Parmalat Finanziaria used Cayman subsidiaries to falsely claim $4.9 billion in bank deposits that it did not have. 
 Last year, two Bear Stearns hedge funds that were incorporated in the Caymans collapsed, following the devaluation of its subprime mortgage-backed investments -- the implosion cost investors $1.6 billion in losses. 
 The economically developed countries need to impose severe sanctions on the tax havens and those who use them to unfair advantage. As recent history confirms, totally unsupervised markets will eventually have serious problems, with ripple effects for markets worldwide. 
 And offshore tax evasion alone costs the United States government more than $70 billion annually. Left unchecked, these rogue jurisdictions have the potential to do a great deal of harm to the world's truly productive economies.
 Robert M. Morgenthau District Attorney New York, March 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX FRAUD (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MONEY LAUNDERING (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); LAWYERS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BANKING LAW (73%); SCANDALS (72%); INDICTMENTS (71%); SALES FORCE (71%); DEVALUATION (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (65%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (63%); WEB SITES (55%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); SUBPRIME LENDING (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (66%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%); PARMALAT SPA (54%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); PLT (BIT) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (54%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (54%); SIC2022 NATURAL, PROCESSED, & IMITATION CHEESE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); LIECHTENSTEIN (94%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2008



265 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Export Pace From China Slackened In February

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
China's trade surplus shrank in February as sales of goods to the United States fell, the government said Monday, but analysts said exports should bounce back now that winter storms that disrupted the economy have passed. 
 The 63 percent drop in the trade gap from a year earlier was partly a result of a long-term slowdown in export demand, but February was an unusually weak month, analysts said.
 ''We expect the export figures to rebound in March, but continue to anticipate a more moderate slowdown in export growth over the course of the year,'' Jing Ulrich, JPMorgan's chairwoman of China equities, said in a report to clients.
 February's trade surplus was $8.6 billion, down from $23.7 billion in the month a year ago, according to China's customs bureau.
 The data reflected slowing growth in exports to the United States and Europe, while China's still robust economy is driving demand for imported energy, consumer goods and industrial equipment.
 China's imports in February surged 35 percent, to $78.8 billion, from the year-earlier period, according to the customs agency. The rate of export growth, meanwhile, plunged to 6.5 percent from January's 26 percent.
 Exports to the United States fell 5 percent in February, to $16.4 billion, while imports of American goods jumped 33 percent, to $6.1 billion.
 Beijing is under pressure from the United States and the European Union to ease trade barriers and currency controls that they say are adding to its swollen trade surplus. Some American lawmakers are calling for punitive action if Beijing fails to act.
 Chinese leaders say they are not actively pursuing a large trade surplus. The government is prodding China's consumers to spend more in hopes of reducing reliance on exports and industrial investment to drive growth.
 The February trade gap was the smallest since March 2007, but that month's $6.9 billion gap was considered abnormally low in a fluke caused by changes in export-tax policy. It has been two years since China regularly posted monthly trade surpluses under $15 billion.
 Economists say narrowing the trade gap could help China restrain pressure for prices to rise by stanching the flood of cash coursing through the economy.
 The trade surplus with the 27-nation European Union, China's biggest trading partner, narrowed by 15 percent, to $10 billion, according to the government data.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Corn for export is unloaded at the Yingkou harbor, in Liaoning Province. Export growth to the U.S. and Europe is slowing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (92%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (71%); TAX LAW (64%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); LIAONING, CHINA (74%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2008



266 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES ON THE ROAD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: A Profitable 18 Hours That's All Business

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHAT a time for airlines. Delays and cancellations. Oil more than $100 a barrel. Customers are furious and flight crews bedraggled. And that's before the economic slowdown in the United States brings its own miseries. 
 Warren E. Buffett once famously said of his fellow investors in the airline industry, ''If we knew then what we know now, we'd have shot the Wright Brothers down.'' 
 So in such times I am amazed to report that Singapore Airlines -- an airline not known for impulsive gestures -- has been selling so many business-class tickets on its nonstop flights between Singapore and both New York and Los Angeles that it is converting the five ultra-long-haul Airbus A340-500 jets that it uses on those routes to all-business-class seating. 
 That's right: Economy-class passengers are off the plane. If you want to fly coach on Singapore Airlines on those routes, you will need to fly on a Boeing 747 or a 777 and make a connection. There is no longer going to be any room on the nonstop A340s.
 Ian Lorigan, the vice president of Singapore Airlines's Eastern division, said that ''the front-end demand has outweighed the economy demand'' on the A340s. The aircraft are currently outfitted in two classes: 63 business-class seats and 117 seats in what Singapore calls premium economy. 
 Starting in mid-May, the A340s on the daily Singapore-to-New York route (actually, it's Newark) will be reconfigured to a single-class service. The twin-aisle A340s will be outfitted with only 100 seats, all of them flat-bed business-class seats arranged in privacy pods in a 1-2-1 configuration that gives each passenger access to an aisle.
 Demand for business-class seats on the nonstop routes between New York and Los Angeles and Singapore ''has way exceeded what we can supply,'' Mr. Lorigan said. 
 I've written about the trans-Atlantic all-business-class phenomenon, which was started in late 2005 by Eos Airlines and MaxJet, the latter now defunct. That was followed by the British all-business-class start-up Silverjet and the French start-up l'Avion. British Airways is joining in with a mostly business-class carrier called OpenSkies. It starts service between New York and Paris in June.
 The trans-Atlantic routes, especially New York to London, are the industry's most lucrative, and most of the profit comes from premium seats. But keep in mind that the trans-Atlantic trip is about six hours. 
 About four years ago, I flew a Singapore Airlines nonstop between Newark and Singapore in business class on an A340. That's 18 1/2 hours. I watched two on-demand movies on my 15-inch personal screen, slept for seven hours, ate and drank well, and wrote a column on my laptop. An oil industry executive sitting near me said, ''I watched three movies, got drunk twice and still got enough sleep to hit the ground running.''
 The souring economy, especially in the United States, has frightened many premium-class carriers and sent many domestic travel managers to their battle stations. But the ultra-long-haul market, between important multinational business centers, apparently remains steady. After all, there are certain things that important business travelers won't put up with on such long flights.
 ''No segment is completely resilient,'' Mr. Lorigan said. ''But given that the front-end demand has really exceeded expectations, we're pretty secure in our decision that this is what the market wants.'' 
 How much does it really cost for a business-class seat? Every time I ask an airline executive, I get a song and dance the likes of which haven't been seen since the Palace Theater featured vaudeville. The walk-up fare on the trans-Atlantic routes is about $10,000, though corporations negotiate discounts and a traveler wallowing in frequent-flier miles used to be able to book an upgrade. 
 So, how much for business class from the United States to Singapore, a route that is three times as long? 
 ''About $10,000,'' Mr. Lorigan said. 
 As usual, if you're a corporate travel manager with a lot of business to send Singapore's way, the price is negotiable.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIR SERVICE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%)

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (57%); BOEING CO (56%); SILVERJET PLC (51%)

TICKER: C6L (SGX) (57%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (51%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) SINGAPORE (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); FRANCE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2008



267 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: Paying at the Pump, in a Big Way

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MAAG

DATELINE: CLEVELAND 

 BODY:
Ricardo Caraballo was having a familiar American experience at the filling station the other day, groaning as the pump clicked up, up, up. By the time he finished it read $505, and his tank was only half full.
 A few years ago, ''$500 would have kept me rolling for two weeks,'' he said. ''Now, I'll be lucky to make it three days.''
 Mr. Caraballo is a trucker, and instead of gasoline he was buying 143 gallons of diesel. While the price of gasoline may be on the verge of setting another record, diesel is already there. 
 According to AAA, the motor club, the average nationwide diesel price has set records on 18 of the past 19 days, including Monday, when it hit $3.83 a gallon. 
 In the nation's tool and die plants, in the driver's seats of farm tractors and in the cabs of the long-haul semis that ply America's highways, people are feeling the pain.
 ''It's killing us,'' said Chad Beachler, co-owner of Beachler Trucking, which operates nine trucks in Loudonville, Ohio. ''Every day, I come in here and wonder if I have enough money to buy fuel.''
 Both diesel and gasoline prices had lagged behind the big increase in the price of oil, as slack wintertime demand helped to suppress increases at the pump. But now both fuels are rising rapidly. Gasoline was selling for a nationwide average of nearly $3.23 a gallon on Monday, a half-penny shy of the record set last May. Oil closed up sharply on Monday to hit a record, $107.90 a barrel, in trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Four states -- New York, California, Pennsylvania and Vermont -- reported average diesel prices above $4 a gallon on Monday. ''That really is unprecedented,'' said Tom Kloza, publisher and chief oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service, which compiles data for AAA.
 Stunned by the high prices, businesses are trying to cut fuel consumption any way they can. Farmers are buying more fuel-efficient equipment. Truckers are putting off maintenance and packing lunches. Transport companies of all types are cutting what little fat remains in an industry that subsists on lean margins even when fuel is cheap.
 ''In this industry, if you're making 4 percent profits, you're held in high esteem,'' said Jim O'Neal, chairman of the Truckload Carriers Association. ''Now we're looking at the dreaded stagflation: a soft economy and increasing prices on everything, especially fuel.''
 Some causes of the run-up are seasonal, said Ron Planting, an economist at the American Petroleum Institute. For instance, home heating oil and diesel are close cousins, and when heating-oil demand goes up in the winter, the prices of both fuels often rise.
 But other reasons are relatively new. The rising popularity of diesel vehicles in Europe increases demand for the fuel and decreases demand for gasoline, allowing European refiners to export their surplus to the United States, which helps stabilize gasoline prices here, Mr. Planting said. Diesel use is on the rise in fast-growing countries like India and China, Mr. Kloza said. And even in the United States, demand for diesel and heating oil grew 1.5 percent in 2007, compared with 0.4 percent for gasoline, Mr. Planting said. 
 Government data shows that Americans used 1.55 billion gallons of diesel last year, compared with 3.395 billion gallons of gasoline. Diesel is mostly burned by businesses to power machinery or haul freight, Mr. Planting said. Since few of the functions dependent on diesel are discretionary, companies must pay the higher prices to remain in business.
 ''In the U.S., gasoline is having its little run,'' Mr. Kloza said. ''But diesel is much more of a global market. All the signs say that the world's appetite for diesel is only going up.''
 Rising fuel costs come at a difficult time for America's transport companies, already hit by slumps in new home construction and consumer spending. Truck tonnage fell 1.5 percent in 2007, to just under 11 billion tons, said Bob Costello, chief economist of the American Trucking Association. Rising diesel costs will almost certainly lead to higher consumer prices and more bankruptcies, he said.
 ''We're already seeing more trucking companies fail, and it's only going to get worse,'' Mr. Costello said.
 When Tony Jarachovic bought his white Kenworth semi in 1998, diesel cost 88 cents a gallon. Today the truck's odometer reads 1.1 million miles. It needs new front tires, which together cost $900, and a major overhaul, which will cost $8,500. 
 Spending $1,500 a week on fuel has depleted his maintenance budget, however. Now he avoids driving from his home base in Lodi, Ohio, into Pennsylvania because the hills strain his motor. Mr. Jarachovic used to buy Krispy Kreme doughnuts at truck stops, and treat his family to dinner at Applebee's every Sunday. Now his wife cooks extra spaghetti so he can eat leftovers on the road. 
 ''I have no expenses left to cut,'' Mr. Jarachovic said.
 Trucking companies are looking for efficiencies, as well. O & S Trucking of Springfield, Mo., recently installed electronic devices in each of its 350 trucks to kill the engines automatically after they idle for two minutes, said Jim Frieze, the equipment director. And all the company's trucks have devices that limit roadway speeds; Mr. Frieze has dialed those down from 70 miles an hour to 65 to conserve fuel. He audits every truck's computer every week, searching for wasteful habits.
 ''If a driver's gear shifts take him over 8,000 r.p.m., he's just blowing fuel out the stack,'' Mr. Frieze said. ''I take him aside and counsel him to shift faster.''
 Long-haul truckers often sleep in their cabs at night, running their engines for heat or air-conditioning and burning a gallon of diesel every hour, said David Owen, president of the National Association of Small Trucking Companies. Many businesses are installing auxiliary power units, known in the industry as A.P.U.'s, in their trucks, which do the same work for a quarter of the fuel.
 But it takes money to save money. The units cost $6,000 to $9,000, Mr. Owen said.
 ''We might have to lay off some drivers,'' said Louise Harbert, office manager at Harvest Transport in Vancouver, Wash. ''There's no way we can afford A.P.U.'s right now.''
 Wal-Mart is working with truck manufacturers to create hybrid diesel-electric truck engines and improve the aerodynamics of its trucks, according to a company statement. United Parcel Service has a fleet of 1,400 alternative-fuel vehicles, and will add hundreds more this year, partly to reduce diesel costs, said Heather Robinson, a spokeswoman. U.P.S. is selling software that helps other companies improve the efficiency of delivery routes.
 ''The days of drivers running five miles off-route to get their favorite pizza are over,'' Ms. Robinson said.
 Other industries are cutting diesel waste as well. Every month, the Union Pacific railroad rewards engineers who have helped it save the most fuel by giving them $100 gasoline cards for their personal vehicles, according to a company statement. 
 The Anacostia and Pacific Company, which owns five regional railroads, recently installed devices that shut locomotives after 20 minutes of idling, and it is considering other devices to keep fuel lines from freezing in cold weather. Together, the cost would be $50,000 per engine.
 ''It's not cheap,'' said Bruce Lieberman, the chief financial officer. ''But I am recoiling in horror at how much we spend on fuel.''
 Tugboat captains sailing to Puerto Rico from Jacksonville, Fla., for Crowley Maritime Corporation once made the trip in 13 days. To save fuel, the companyordered them to slow down, adding a day to the voyage, said Rob Grune, Crowley's vice president for Caribbean services.
 Because boats move goods more efficiently than trains or trucks, barge shipping is one of the few diesel-burning industries that benefits from the high cost of fuel. Annual transportation revenue at American Commercial Lines, a tug-and-barge company in Jeffersonville, Ind., grew by $60 million in 2007, almost entirely from companies switching from trucks or rail to save money on fuel surcharges, said Michael P. Ryan, the company's president and chief executive.
 The nation's farmers are also among those looking to save fuel. Bill Christison, 71, never had much of an erosion problem on his 2,000-acre farm near Chillicothe, Mo., so he never needed a no-till planter, which plants seeds without plowing up the soil. But plowing burns lots of fuel; last year Mr. Christison spent $17,207 on diesel. So this winter he paid $100,000 for his first no-till planter. 
 ''I'm being as stingy with fuel as I can be,'' Mr. Christison said. ''But we just can't get along without diesel.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 13, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Tuesday about the rising price of diesel misstated the amount of diesel and gasoline used by Americans in 2007. They used about 3.395 billion barrels of gasoline, not 3.395 billion gallons, and about 1.55 billion barrels of diesel and heating oil, not 1.55 billion gallons. (At 42 gallons to the barrel, the correct figures in gallons are 143 billion gallons of gasoline and 65 billion gallons of diesel and heating oil.) The article also misquoted Jim Frieze, equipment director for O & S Trucking of Springfield, Mo., who commented on the driving practices of some truckers. He said that gearshifts that take the engine over 1,800 r.p.m. -- not 8,000 r.p.m. -- waste fuel. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A new price was posted at a Citgo station in Statesville, N.C., on Monday, as the price of oil hit $107.90 a barrel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIE JACOBSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. C4)
When Tony Jarachovic purchased his truck in 1998, diesel fuel cost 88 cents a gallon. On Monday, it reached a nationwide average of $3.83 a gallon, a record. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER WYNN THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C4)
 Tony Jarachovic, waiting for his truck to be unloaded in Aurora, Ill. ''I have no expenses left to cut,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER WYNN THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C1) GRAPH (Source: O.P.I.S.) (pg. C1) Graph showing diesel fuel at record levels. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (90%); DIESEL FUEL (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (89%); TRUCKING (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL (86%); TRUCKING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); COMMODITIES TRADING (75%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (75%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (75%); MACHINE TOOLS (74%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (73%); GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (71%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (65%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (70%) OHIO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2008



268 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Sharing The Pain

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
David Brooks is off today.

 BODY:
Now that the economic crunch is reaching those near the top of the pyramid, there is finally a sense that the U.S. is facing a real crisis.
 Forget about a soft landing. The stock markets continue to tumble. The dollar has weakened. The subprime mortgage debacle has morphed into a full-fledged panic. And Joe Stiglitz is telling us the war in Iraq will cost $3 trillion.
 Maybe now we can stop listening to the geniuses who insisted that the way to nirvana was to ignore the broad national interest while catering to the desires of those who were already the wealthiest among us. 
 We have always gotten a distorted picture of how well Americans were doing from politicians and the media. The U.S. has a population of 300 million. Thirty-seven million, many of them children, live in poverty. Close to 60 million are just one notch above the official poverty line. These near-poor Americans live in households with annual incomes that range from $20,000 to $40,000 for a family of four.
 It is disgraceful that in a nation as wealthy as the United States, nearly a third of the people are poor or near-poor.
 Former Senator John Edwards touched on the quality of the lives of those perched precariously above the abyss of poverty in his foreword to the book, ''The Missing Class: Portraits of the Near-Poor in America,'' by Katherine S. Newman and Victor Tan Chen. Mr. Edwards wrote:
 ''When we set about fixing welfare in the 1990s, we said we were going to encourage work. Near-poor Americans do work, usually in jobs that the rest of us do not want -- jobs with stagnant wages, no retirement funds, and inadequate health insurance, if they have it at all. While their wages stay the same, the cost of everything else -- energy, housing, transportation, tuition -- goes up.''
 The economic pain and anxiety felt for so long by the poor and the near-poor has been spreading like a stain in the middle class as well. It's hardly been a secret. But neither the Democrats nor the Republicans have stepped up to this fundamental long-term challenge, and that includes the three remaining candidates for president.
 No one will tackle the crucial issue of employment in a serious way. The cornerstone of a middle-class life in America (and that means the cornerstone of the American dream) is a good job. The American dream is on life support because men and women by the millions who want very much to work -- who still have in their heads the ideal of a thriving family in a nice home with maybe a picket fence -- are unable to find a decent job.
 For years, families have been fighting weakness on the employment front with every other option imaginable. Wives and mothers have gone to work. People have been putting in more hours and working additional jobs.
 And Americans have plunged like Olympic diving champions into every form of debt they could find.
 As Andrew Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union, told me some months ago: ''Workers are incredibly, legitimately scared that the American dream, particularly the belief that their kids will do better, is ending.''
 It is. The dream is in grave danger because the ruling elite stopped looking out for the collective interests of the society and all but stopped investing in the future. We are swimming in a vast sea of indebtedness, most of it bringing no worthwhile return.
 Former Senator Bill Bradley, in a conversation the other day, described the amount of public and private indebtedness in the U.S. as ''ominous.'' In his book, ''The New American Story,'' Mr. Bradley said:
 ''For almost a generation, America has cheated our future and lived only in the here and now. Economic growth depends on the level of investment in both physical capital -- machines, infrastructure, technology -- and human capital, which consists of the combined skills and health of our work force.''
 Instead of making those investments, we've neglected our physical and human infrastructure, squeezed the daylights out of the work force (now a fearful and demoralized lot) and tried to hide the resulting debacle behind the fool's gold of debt and denial.
 Americans save virtually nothing. They have looted the equity in their homes and driven their credit card balances to staggering heights. Meanwhile, the Bush administration has claimed colossal new standards of fiscal irresponsibility. At some point, to take just one example, someone will have to pay the $3 trillion for the war. 
 This craziness is not sustainable.
 Without an educated and empowered work force, without sustained investment in the infrastructure and technologies that foster long-term employment, and without a system of taxation that can actually pay for the services provided by government, the American dream as we know it will expire. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); TUITION FEES (76%); CHILD POVERTY (73%); CHILDREN (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (68%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (57%); SUBPRIME LENDING (57%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2008



269 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: The Best Seat in the Plane

BYLINE: By PERRY GARFINKEL

 BODY:
Remember when first-class seats meant the best on the plane? That's not always the case anymore.
 In the last decade, some airlines began eliminating first class, while keeping the amenities that make their highest-paying passengers feel like the most important people on board. They just call it by a different name. Delta Air Lines, for example, calls its prime seats BusinessElite class on international flights. Continental Airlines calls them BusinessFirst. 
 The airlines themselves were in part responsible for the declining number of first-class seats. Once they improved business class -- with bigger seats that open into fully flat beds, menus by celebrity chefs, individual entertainment systems and airport lounges where first- and business-class travelers rubbed elbows -- ''it became more difficult for travelers to justify the additional exorbitant price of first class,'' said Peter P. Belobaba, manager of the M.I.T. Global Airline Industry Program. The recent rise of all-business-class airlines has just added to the pressure on first class. 
 On a trans-Atlantic flight from New York to London or Frankfurt, a typical round-trip business fare would be about $5,500. A so-called true first-class seat would run about $8,500 and up. 
 ''With corporate business travelers demanding the most comfortable ride possible but not willing to pay the price, the demand for first class shrunk,'' Joanne Smith, a senior vice president for Delta, said. ''So it made no financial sense for us to continue it.'' 
 By stepping down to business class from first class, travelers lose the additional space separating seats, a higher ratio of flight attendants to passengers and that intangible amenity, prestige. 
 This is not to say that first class is disappearing. A few airlines showcase a new first class that humbles traditional first, in which passengers find privacy in enclosed suites or pods, with ottomans, tables, double beds and designer amenities to satisfy the most affluent traveler.
 ''In some circles, flying first class remains the status symbol of a person's success in business,'' Mr. Belobaba said. 
 Edward Sims, a group general manager for Air New Zealand, said first class is ''as much a marketing platform that the airlines use to promote their elitism.'' Some airlines, he said, ''will live with semi-empty first-class seats just so they can show attractive visuals in the brochures.'' 
 Air New Zealand offers a combination business-first class, Business Premier; an in-between class, Pacific Premium Economy; and Pacific Economy -- in effect renaming but returning to the three classes of the post-World War II era. 
 In the early days of commercial aviation, before about 60 years ago, a chief executive, middle manager and department director flew in the same class. They had no choice; there was one cabin, one class. Then came first class, business and coach (also called economy).
 Now, the need to stay competitive and profitable has resulted in an industrywide seating shake-up. Depending on the airline, the route and the aircraft, travelers can choose from among six classes. Along with the three traditional classes and premium business, there is also a class between economy and business. British Airways calls that class World Traveler Plus, while Virgin Atlantic has named it Premium Economy.
 Then there are the handful of airlines -- Emirates, Singapore, Virgin Atlantic, Qantas and Cathay Pacific among them -- working on the premise that there are no limits on pampering the prestige class. Singapore Airlines was the first with super-first-class seating, suites it has called the ''class beyond first.'' A flier who has purchased one of those suites gets a cabin within a cabin, entered through double sliding doors.
 In airlines that offer this class, fliers will find leather seats with electronic massage; a full-size bed (some convert into doubles) made up with Givenchy duvets and cushions; 23-inch plasma flat-screen TVs; and on-demand dining.
 Singapore's suites are currently available on its A380 flights from Singapore to Sydney. On March 18, the airline will introduce them on its Singapore-to-London route. Round-trip fares will be $14,179 for the first-class suites, $6,354 for business and $1,482 for economy. 
 Still, in an indication of the new strength of the business-class seats, Singapore is also moving into all-business-class service on some routes.
 Frills and added classes aside, for many business travelers it comes down to the basics: comfort, time and money.
 ''Flying is valuable office time to me,'' said Andrew M. Sacks, 40, president of AgencySacks, an advertising group in Manhattan. ''If I get the space I need to work and a good seat, I justify the expense by getting a week's worth of work done on an eight-hour flight.'' 
 Even so, he said he could not rationalize spending close to $13,000 for a pair of Continental's BusinessFirst seats for himself and Julie Fisher, a vice president at the agency, to fly to Barcelona in November 2006 for a Leading Hotels of the World convention. 
 Instead, they bought three coach tickets at $500 each, left the middle seat empty and brought their own veritable smorgasbord from Balducci's that was, he said, ''as savory as anything they were serving up front.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A first-class cabin on an Emirates flight, below, includes a TV, writing table and full bed. Andrew Sacks, right, head of AgencySacks, with Julie Fisher, says the work he can do during a flight justifies the cost. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); EXECUTIVES (88%); AIR FARES (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (73%); CELEBRITIES (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (61%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (90%); AIR NEW ZEALAND LTD (56%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (91%); UAL (NYSE) (90%); AIZ (ASX) (56%); AIR (NZX) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2008



270 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths GERARD, KAREN

 BODY:
 GERARD--Karen, died March 10, 2008. Born on April 11, 1932. Karen grew up in Hewlett, Long Island. She attended the public high school and then Radcliffe College where she graduated magna cum laude in 1953. She then obtained a masters degree in economics from Columbia University in 1955. Her first job was as an economic researcher with The Bank of The Manhattan Company which soon after merged with Chase Bank. She became one of the first female vice presidents at Chase and the first who attained such a title while working 31/2 to 4 days a week while her children were infants. 
She, as an expert on New York City economics, advised the management of the Bank during the City's financial crisis in the 1970s. She then served as Deputy Mayor for Economic Development of New York City in 1981 and 1982 in the Koch Administration. In 1984, Harcourt Brace Jovanice published ''American Survivors, Cities and Other Scenes'', her book of essays on urban economics and social problems. In 1985, she joined Moran Stahl & Boyer an economic consulting firm and in 1989 she and two younger colleagues formed their own consulting firm, Kelly Legan & Gerard. She retired in 1993. During 1981 and 1982, she was the president of the Woman's Forum. She was a one time president and long time director of The Foundation for Child Development and for many years was associated with the Trickle Up organization which makes small grants to further entrepreneurship all over the world. She was an enthusiastic supporter of the Radcliffe Institute and the Schlesinger Library at Harvard. In her retirement, she was a docent at the New York Historical Society and for many years until her death she was a docent of the Morgan Library and Museum. She and her husband maintained a weekend house in Sherman, CT since 1966. She is survived by Egon, her husband for 53 years; her daughter Deborah and her husband Seth; her son Daniel and his wife Jani and four grandchildren, Jesse, Taylor, Cody and Lucy. She is also survived by a brother, Bruce Silberblatt. The date and time of a memorial will be announced. Instead of flowers, she has requested that people consider making a contribution to The Foundation for Child Development, 145 E. 32nd St, New York, NY 10016-6055. Funeral private. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHILDREN (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); HISTORY (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); LIBRARIES (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2008



271 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: McDonald's February Sales Rose 11.7%

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: OAK BROOK, Ill. 

 BODY:
The McDonald's Corporation said on Monday that February sales at restaurants open more than a year jumped a better-than-expected 11.7 percent, aided by growth in Europe, the weak dollar and the benefit of an extra selling day. 
 Two consecutive months of solid results to start the year have reassured investors worried about the effect of an economic slowdown on the company.
 Shares of McDonald's increased $1.53, to $53.80. 
 The leap year's extra day helped by about 4 percent last month, McDonald's said.
 Sales at stores open at least a year, known as same-store sales, rose 8.3 percent in the United States in February, led by breakfast and coffee offerings. European same-store sales grew 15.4 percent on strong results in Britain, France, Germany and Russia.
 Same-store sales in the Asia Pacific region, Middle East and Africa rose 10.9 percent for the month, mostly on strength in Australia, China and Japan.
 Systemwide sales, which include restaurants owned by franchisees and affiliates operating under joint-venture agreements, rose 13.2 percent in February.
 An analyst at Goldman Sachs, Steven Kron, said McDonald's was well positioned to navigate through economic challenges because of its tiered menu, which offers a mix of value and more expensive new products.
 Paul Westra, who covers the restaurant industry at Cowen & Company, said he was hearing positive feedback from the introduction of McDonald's specialty coffees, now available in more than 1,000 restaurants.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Clowns were on hand to open a McDonald's in Beijing last month. The company said sales in the Asia Pacific region, Middle East and Africa rose 10.9 percent in February. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAME STORE SALES (91%); RETAIL SALES (91%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (91%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); FRANCHISING (73%); FRANCHISEES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); NEW PRODUCTS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); JOINT VENTURES (52%)

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (98%); COWEN GROUP INC (66%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (98%); COWN (NASDAQ) (66%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (98%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (98%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (66%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (53%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) CHINA (92%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (79%); AUSTRALIA (73%); GERMANY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2008



272 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 428 words

 BODY:
PRIVATE EQUITY TAKES A HIT Heavy debt is taking a toll on private equity firms like the Blackstone Group, which has announced an 86 percent decline in profits for its fourth quarter of 2007. 
 CHIEF UNDER FIRE Having presided over $11 billion in write-offs and a revamping of Morgan Stanley's risk management process, Morgan's chief executive, John J. Mack, left, faces investors who are questioning his ability to lead Morgan Stanley as he has in recent years. [C1.]
 HIGH COST OF DIESEL FUEL AAA, the motor club, says the average nationwide diesel price is setting records, as long-haul truckers already know. [C1.] 
 A smelly substance in a creek in Alabama turned out to be soybean oil from a nearby biodiesel fuel plant, the state's first. [A12.] 
 ECONOMIC WOES FOR SARKOZY Strikes have hurt the efforts of President Nicolas Sarkozy to transform the economic soul of France. [C1.]
 UNHAPPY OVER A DECISION Boeing will protest the award of a $35 billion U.S. contract for aerial tankers to a group that includes a foreign rival, Airbus. [C1.] 
 BREAKING DOWN THE DEALS Discussing recent takeover proposals with Larry Ellison, an architect of hostile takeovers in Silicon Valley. DealBook: Andrew Ross Sorkin. [C1.] 
 NO INTERFERENCE -- FOR NOW General Motors has indicated it does not plan to intervene in a two-week strike at a parts supplier that has slowed or halted production at 29 G.M. plants. [C2.]
 A MOGUL TESTIFIESJohn C. Malone of Liberty Media was first to testify in a court battle with Barry Diller for control of IAC/InterActive Corp. [C3.] 
 NOT FOR SALE Jeffrey R. Immelt, the chairman of General Electric, will tell shareholders on Wednesday it has no plans to sell NBC Universal, despite rumors to the contrary. [C3.]
 Hulu.com, the joint Internet venture involving NBC Universal and Fox, is emerging on Wednesday, offering TV shows and video clips online. [C3.]
 FIGHTING INDIAN POINT Opponents of the Indian Point nuclear power plants, including the state of New York, got a chance to say why they think the reactors should be shut. [B3.] 
 CHINA TRADE SURPLUS DECLINES China's trade surplus shrank in February as sales of goods to the United States fell, but analysts said exports should return with the warm weather. [C5.] 
 DON'T CALL IT FIRST CLASS... First-class airline seats are disappearing as business class seats take hold. [C6.]
 ...CALL IT BUSINESS CLASS Singapore Airlines has been selling so many business-class tickets on nonstops from New York and Los Angeles that it is expanding the service. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [C6.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (91%); DIESEL FUEL (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (86%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); STRIKES (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); BIOFUELS (75%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); POWER PLANTS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); TRUCK DRIVERS (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (65%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (63%); INTERNET & WWW (62%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (61%); AIRLINES (60%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (84%); IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (66%); BOEING CO (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); AIRBUS SAS (56%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); HULU LLC (53%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (51%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (84%); IACI (NASDAQ) (66%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (54%); C6L (SGX) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (66%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (66%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (66%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (67%); JEFFREY IMMELT (57%); LAWRENCE J ELLISON (56%); JOHN J MACK (56%); BARRY DILLER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2008



273 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: Financial Sector Fuels Downward Trend

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks fell for a third consecutive session on Monday, as investors dumped financial issues on fears of more credit losses and concerns that the economy might already be in recession.
 The sell-off in financial stocks picked up speed after speculation circulated that Bear Stearns, the investment bank, was facing a cash shortage. The chairman of Bear's executive committee, Alan C. Greenberg, called the speculation ''totally ridiculous,'' but shares of Bear Stearns still ended the day down $7.78 at $62.30.
 Financial stocks were among the biggest drags on the market as the speculation about Bear Stearns strengthened the conviction that banks would report further deep credit losses for the quarter. Shares of Bank of America fell $1.43, to $35.31, while Citigroup slid $1.22, to $19.69. 
 Citigroup forecast $9 billion in write-downs at American investment banks in the first quarter, driven largely by leveraged loan and mortgage-related losses.
 Adding to the market's woes, gold futures and other metal prices sank, pulling down shares of mining companies like Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold, which fell $5.91, to $93.97. Material stocks were among the top decliners on the Standard & Poor's index. 
 Crude oil for April delivery rose $2.75, to settle at $107.90 a barrel in New York trading. Futures earlier surged to $108.21 a barrel.
 ''There's kind of an overhang of concerns about weakening U.S. economic conditions spreading globally,'' said Frederic H. Dickson, a market strategist at D. A. Davidson & Company in Lake Oswego, Ore.
 The Dow Jones industrial average tumbled 153.54 points, or 1.29 percent, to close at 11,740.15. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 20 points, or 1.55 percent, to finish at 1,273.37. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 43.15 points, or 1.95 percent, to close at 2,169.34.
 ''I think what we're seeing with the industrial companies is that there's just more growing concern about the economic slowdown cutting into international industrial business,'' Mr. Dickson said.
 Recession concerns hit shares of big manufacturers, including the Boeing Company, which led the Dow's decliners with a drop of $2.22, to $74.38.
 The General Motors Corporation fell $1.07, to $20.89, after an analyst at Lehman Brothers said major automakers were at risk of being squeezed by both declining sales and rising commodity prices.
 Monday was the third consecutive down day for the markets, which were sent reeling on Friday by a government report that employers had unexpectedly shed jobs at the steepest rate in nearly five years in February, confirming for many investors that the United States has entered a recession.
 Among gainers, shares of McDonald's, a Dow component, climbed $1.53 to $53.80 after the chain said sales at established stores jumped 11.7 percent globally in February.
 Bond prices rose as stocks stumbled. The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 20/32, to 100 12/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, fell to 3.45 percent, from 3.53 percent. The year on the five-year Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, was 0 percent, as investors were concerned that the Fed might be unable to control rising prices.
 Following are the results of Monday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: GRAPHS: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 3-MONTH TREASURY BILLS: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) Graphs showing the financial sector fueling a downward trend. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (90%); FUTURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); METALS MARKETS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BASE METALS MARKETS (75%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); MINES & MINING (72%); COPPER MINING (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); AUTOMAKERS (65%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (65%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (65%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (84%); FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (68%); D A DAVIDSON & CO (66%); BOEING CO (63%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (62%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); FCX (NYSE) (68%); BOE (LSE) (63%); BAB (BRU) (63%); BA (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (68%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (68%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (68%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (68%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (68%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (68%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (68%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (68%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (68%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (68%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (68%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (63%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2008



274 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Buyout Industry, Once Booming, Staggers Under Weight of Debt

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
With their big paydays and bigger egos, private equity moguls came to symbolize an era of hyper-wealth on Wall Street. 
 Now their fortunes are plummeting.
 Celebrated buyout firms like the Blackstone Group and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, hailed only a year ago for their deal-making prowess, are seeing their profits collapse as the credit crisis spreads through the financial markets. 
 Investors fear that some of the companies that these firms bought on credit could, like millions of American homeowners, begin to buckle under their heavy debts now that a recession seems almost certain. The buyout lords themselves suddenly confront gaping multibillion-dollar losses on their investments.
 On a day in which the stock market tumbled to its lowest point in two years and rumors flew that a major Wall Street firm might be in trouble, Blackstone said Monday that its profit had plunged. 
 The firm said earnings tumbled 89 percent in the final three months of 2007 and warned that the deep freeze in the credit markets -- and, by extension, in the private equity industry -- was unlikely to thaw soon.
 ''They see the handwriting on the wall,'' said Martin S. Fridson, a leading expert on junk bonds, said of buyout firms. ''They're staring into the jaws of hell.''
 It is a major turn of events for Blackstone and its chief executive, Stephen A. Schwarzman, who took the firm public last year at the height of the buyout binge. On paper, Mr. Schwarzman has personally lost $3.9 billion as the price of Blackstone's stock sank. 
 Even so, Mr. Schwarzman is still worth billions, more than rich enough to pledge $100 million to the New York Public Library, as he plans to do Tuesday.
 In recent years private equity firms have bought thousands of companies, mostly with borrowed money. 
 Blackstone and others argue they can run these businesses more efficiently -- and therefore more profitably -- than they could as public companies. Now, the bankers and investors who financed the boom in corporate takeovers are running for the exits. Loans and junk bonds that deal makers used to pay for the acquisitions -- debts that must be repaid by the companies, not the deal makers -- are sinking in value. 
 The speed and ferocity of the industry's reversal have taken even Wall Street by surprise. On Monday, Carlyle Capital, a highly leveraged fund linked to another buyout firm, the Washington-based Carlyle Group, confronted the prospect of insolvency. Carlyle's troubles, along with rumors that Bear Stearns might be running short of cash, helped drive stocks lower. Bear Stearns denied the rumors.
 But companies far from Wall Street are feeling the pain of the private equity crisis. In 2006, for example, Freescale Semiconductor, which makes computer chips, found itself the object of private equity's affection and the subject of the biggest buyout battle of all time in the technology industry. 
 Two groups of private equity firms vied for the microchip manufacturer, a spinoff of Motorola that builds most of the computer chips for that company's cellphones. Ultimately, the winning group, led by Blackstone, paid a staggering $17.6 billion, most of that with borrowed money.
 That was then. Now Freescale is plagued by falling demand from Motorola and billions of dollars in debt related to its takeover. It replaced its chief executive nearly three weeks ago, and its junk bonds recently traded at levels that suggest the company might be unable to pay its debts. The company has said that while times are challenging, it can meet its debts.
 ''No one saw this kind of outcome,'' Michael Holland, chairman of the New York investment firm Holland & Company, and a former Blackstone executive, said of the buyout industry's troubles. 
 Freescale is far from alone, as the private equity industry reels from the shocks to the credit markets and the broader economy. Since last summer, financing for the multibillion dollars deals has withered, depriving buyout firms of the headlines and, more important, the returns to which they had grown accustomed. 
 Bonds and loans of newly private companies as diverse as the Realogy Corporation, a Minneapolis-based real estate company, and OSI Restaurant Partners, which owns the Outback Steakhouse chain, have plunged so far in value that bankers consider the debt distressed. 
 While these and many other companies are current on their debts, their bonds now trade at 70 or 80 cents on the dollar, suggesting investors are worried about these businesses' financial health. Some bonds are selling at even lower prices, and a few companies have gone bankrupt.
 As a financial firm, Blackstone is just one of many that have suffered over the past eight months. But unlike banks and mortgage lenders, Blackstone is the only major American buyout firm that is publicly traded. Its stumbles are more clearly tracked than any of its peers, as shown by a stock price that has dropped more than 50 percent since its debut.
 On Monday, Blackstone reported soft results in its private equity and corporate real estate businesses, its two biggest divisions. Stripped of the cheap debt that girds its deal making, Blackstone said it will now focus on smaller transactions. Yet the firm has not struck any deal over $2 billion since last July, when it announced a $25 billion takeover of Hilton Hotels. Since then, it has failed to complete two buyouts, those of PHH, a mortgage lender, and Alliance Data Systems, a credit card processor.
 Blackstone also took an accounting charge related to its investment in the Financial Guaranty Investment Corporation, a troubled bond insurance company.
 But private equity firm's problems now extend well beyond themselves. Banks, for example, are saddled with billions of dollars of buyout-related debt they cannot sell, serving as the next possible wave of write-downs after the subprime mortgage debacle. Citigroup, Goldman Sachs and Lehman Brothers are currently holding what some analysts estimate is $130 billion in leveraged loans, or those supporting private equity deals.
 And the companies that private equity firms have acquired may be the next to suffer. Emboldened by the availability of cheap debt, private equity firms borrowed more and more as they paid higher prices to strike more deals. That has left many companies like Freescale to cope with more debt to pay off.
 Surveying junk debt offerings since 2002, Mr. Fridson found that companies taken private tended to suffer more distress than their peers. According to his firm, FridsonVision, Blackstone had the fourth most-distressed companies of major private equity firms, with nearly 34.8 percent of its holdings falling into that category compared with the average of 27.7 percent.
 Calling a bottom to the industry's problems is a notoriously difficult task, even for sophisticated investors like Blackstone. Executives from the firm argue that these are times to buy things cheaply, be they stakes in companies or real estate properties. 
 Blackstone recently raised $1.4 billion from investors for a fund devoted to buying bonds and loans at fire sale prices. But in a conference call on Monday, Hamilton E. James, the firm's president, said the fund is ''100 percent dry powder'' and so far has not been tapped for investments. ''Our view is that things will get worse before they get better,'' Mr. James said.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: GOING BUST: Since going public in June last year, Blackstone's stock has lost half of its value. (Source: Bloomberg) (pg. A19) Graph showing Blackstone's stock plummeting. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); BONDS (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); HOMEOWNERS (70%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (66%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); LIBRARIES (63%); COMPUTER CHIPS (60%)

COMPANY: KKR & CO LP (92%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (92%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (57%); CARLYLE CAPITAL CORP LTD (51%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%)

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (92%); BX (NYSE) (92%); CG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2008



275 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Carlyle Fund Tries to Halt Liquidation

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
The Carlyle Group's troubled mortgage-debt investment fund, Carlyle Capital, said Monday that it had asked lenders to halt further liquidation of collateral worth as much as $16 billion while the two sides discuss ways to repay the debt. 
 The fund, which invests mainly in triple-A rated mortgage securities issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, has received $400 million in margin calls, and some lenders started to liquidate collateral for $5 billion of debt. Banks are asking for their money back amid concerns the economic climate may deteriorate further.
 The Carlyle fund said Monday that it had ''requested a standstill agreement whereby its lenders would refrain from foreclosing and liquidating their collateral, and we are awaiting responses.''
 Banks are asking for more collateral to cover loans after writing down more than $160 billion in assets linked to the subprime mortgage crisis, and fears of a recession are prompting them to call in some loans outright.
 Costs to protect even the safest bonds are close to a record, and investment funds like Carlyle Capital are finding it increasingly difficult to meet rising demands for collateral as the value of their portfolios declines along with the financial markets.
 ''At the beginning, banks were willing to accept not to trigger margin calls because they feared forced assets sales,'' said Philip Gisdakis, a senior credit strategist at Unicredit in Munich, ''but now that there is a serious deterioration in the valuation of collateral, they cannot do that any longer and need to protect their loans.''
 The Carlyle fund, which sold shares in an initial public offering on the Amsterdam stock exchange last summer, shares some of the Carlyle Group's management and received a $150 million credit line from the firm. Among the fund's lenders are Citigroup, Bank of America and Merrill Lynch.
 With the help of the Carlyle Group, the fund continues to meet with lenders to discuss the situation and ''is evaluating all available options to maximize value for all interested parties.'' Should the fund fail to reach an agreement with the lenders or to find new financing, it may have to close, some analysts said last week.
 Peloton Partners, a London-based hedge fund run by former Goldman Sachs partners, liquidated its largest funds last month after it failed to reach an agreement with some lenders on the levels of collateral. Thornburg Mortgage, a mortgage lender in the United States, also ran into trouble after it failed to meet some margin calls. More funds that used a high level of leverage to buy less-risky assets are likely to face difficulties, Mr. Gisdakis said.
 Central banks may choose to revive last year's cash-injection programs as banks continue their reluctance to lend to one another and maintain their own liquidity. Borrowing costs are again on the rise after some emergency cash auctions at the end of last year temporarily relieved pressure on the short-term debt markets. 
 Some funds were able to buy at least some time from their lenders. KKR Financial Holdings, a publicly traded fixed-income fund linked to the private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, agreed last month with its lenders on an extension to repay debt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); NEW ISSUES (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (89%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); DIVESTITURES (70%); RECESSION (68%)

COMPANY: CARLYLE GROUP LP (92%); CARLYLE CAPITAL CORP LTD (85%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (72%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (92%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (92%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (85%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2008



276 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Iraq In the Dark

BYLINE: By GLENN ZORPETTE. 
Glenn Zorpette is the executive editor of I.E.E.E. Spectrum, the magazine of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.

 BODY:
LACK of electricity is still a big problem in Iraq, and there's lots of blame to go around. Much of it goes to the usual suspects: too many insurgent attacks, too few experienced engineers and technicians. But there's another factor, big and getting bigger, which you probably haven't read about. It's one that Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki and his bureaucrats could solve quickly, if they wanted to: Iraq's Ministries of Oil and Electricity are at loggerheads.
 While they bicker, Iraqis seethe. During a cold snap this January in Iraq, I spent a morning interviewing people on the streets of Falluja. Over and over again, I heard variations on two basic themes: appreciation that the coalition had driven the insurgents out of town, and anger over the inability of their government, with American assistance, to provide them with more than an hour or two of electricity each day. 
 The number of hours may vary, but much the same complaint can be heard just about anywhere in Iraq. Electricity remains a dispiritingly scarce commodity, even though more than $6 billion, mostly in American money, has been devoted to improving supply. From an encouraging peak of 5,530 megawatts last July 11, typical daily peaks have slipped back to around 4,500 megawatts, according to a recent report by the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction. That's only about 500 megawatts more than what it was shortly after the start of reconstruction five years ago -- before the completion of thousands of American-supported projects. Summer peak demand in the country will be at least 11,000 megawatts, the State Department estimates. 
 While the insurgency is of course a major factor, the heart of the matter is that the Oil and Electricity Ministries have coexisted uneasily ever since they were reconstituted by the Coalition Provisional Authority in 2003. To run its generating plants, the cash-starved Electricity Ministry must beg for whatever fuel the Oil Ministry can spare, while buying as much as it can from places like Kuwait. But charity isn't a priority for Iraq's Oil Ministry -- quite the contrary.
 Almost all of the Iraqi government's revenues come from oil exports. They totaled $39.8 billion last year, the government says, accounting for about 95 percent of its income. So it is not surprising that the oil minister, Hussain al-Shahristani, has been acting as though every barrel not exported is money wasted.
 But that attitude, and the tacit approval of Prime Minister Maliki, is helping to prolong the economic, social and security quagmires that continue to afflict the country. All over Iraq, generating plants sit idle for lack of fuel. The State Department estimates that on a typical day about 1,500 megawatts of power, or one-third of the country's peak output, are unavailable because the Electricity Ministry cannot get enough fuel. While the Oil Ministry mechanistically swells the government coffers, hospitals, water-pumping stations and sewage systems function sporadically or not at all. The Oil Ministry's intransigence goes beyond fuel parsimony. It also refuses to pay for any projects that do not help in exporting more crude oil. ''The Oil Ministry has done zero projects to benefit electricity,'' an American diplomat in Baghdad told me. ''They couldn't care less.'' 
 Reconstruction experts at the American Embassy in Baghdad pointed to a dozen proposed oil projects that could make a big difference in the electricity supply. One is the repair and renovation of the pipeline that brings crude from the southern oil fields to the Doura refinery in Baghdad, which is the nation's largest producer of kerosene and gasoline. 
 A branch of this pipeline also feeds the Musayyib power plant, south of the capital. Workers there are now finishing a $50 million structure, called a topping unit, to produce diesel fuel for 10 new turbine-generators. Unfortunately, the troubled project to buy and install those generators has dragged on for years and has cost American taxpayers more than $300 million so far. Only four of the generators are ready to operate, but even they sit idle for lack of fuel.
 A few more generators are expected to be ready in the next couple of months, but the pipeline still won't be capable of delivering enough crude oil for conversion into diesel at the topping unit to run the generators. To allow this to happen, the pipeline would need an additional pumping station and some general refurbishing. The cost would be very small compared to the money already invested at Musayyib, or compared to alternative fueling schemes like bringing in diesel fuel in convoys of dozens of tanker trucks every day. But the Oil Ministry refuses to modernize the pipeline's pumping system at all, because it wants the oil flowing south for export, not north for the people of Baghdad.
 Meanwhile, at the big Qudas power station north of the capital, workers are adding two new generating units to the eight already installed. There's an old oil field literally across the street from Qudas that now pumps enough crude-oil distillate to supply three of the plant's generating units; the other units, however, rely on fuel being trucked in. It would cost an estimated $50 million to rehabilitate enough of the fields' aging wells and equipment to supply enough crude, diesel and gas sufficient to fuel 7 of the 10 generating units that Qudas will soon have. Consultants from the American engineering firm Fluor estimate that the cost savings from no longer having to truck in the crude would recoup the $50 million expense in about a month. But, here, too, the Oil Ministry isn't interested. ''They have no dog in that fight,'' an embassy official told me. ''There's no way for them to make money out of it.''
 Perhaps the biggest waste of all in Iraq involves not oil but natural gas, an enormous resource squandered literally all the time. It comes out of the ground along with oil, and is simply burned off, or ''flared,'' to prevent it from exploding. Yet several studies have concluded that if the gas from the southern oil fields alone were used to generate electricity, it could provide 4,100 megawatts, nearly doubling Iraq's total capacity. Nevertheless, the Oil Ministry has pushed back on every Electricity Ministry proposal over the past five years aimed at capturing and delivering the gas to generating plants.
 Not only the two ministries are at odds with each other, their leaders are as well, American diplomats tell me. The oil minister, Mr. Shahristani, was trained as a chemical engineer, worked as a nuclear specialist and spent years in Saddam Hussein's prisons -- but he had no experience in the oil industry before his appointment. He is, however, very well connected with the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq, the country's dominant Shiite political party. Meanwhile, the electricity minister, Karim al-Hasan, holds a Ph.D. in electrical engineering and came up through the ranks of the ministry, which gives him great expertise but little political sway.
 Efforts to bring coherence and compromise to Iraq's energy ministries have been sparse and fruitless. A multi-ministry ''energy-fusion cell'' was set up nearly a year ago to work with the Pentagon and State Department on an integrated energy plan, but this has gone nowhere. One promising note: the Iraqi government's new agreement on sharing oil resources among regions apparently has language mandating that the government stop flaring its natural gas and start capturing and using it. 
 Iraq has some of the world's largest known oil reserves, but it spent nearly a billion dollars importing oil products last year. That's not the only paradox. Iraqis are experiencing the unfortunate results of the United States' failure to anticipate and accommodate the fuel requirements of the three dozen generating units it installed early during reconstruction. But sadly, thanks to bureaucratic infighting and an obsession with export revenue, their own government is now on a path to institutionalize and perpetuate those energy problems indefinitely. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 14, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article on Tuesday, about Iraq's electricity shortage, incorrectly described the financing for the Musayyib power plant, south of Baghdad. The United States has provided $36 million so far, the Pentagon says; it has not contributed more than $300 million, which is the amount spent by the government of Iraq. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY TED MCGRATH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (65%); APPROVALS (62%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2008



277 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Pace of Change Too Slow to Keep Entrepreneurs in France

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Four years ago, Caroline Sivilia, a Parisian who worked for the ad agency Publicis Groupe, left France to start a magazine for French people living in London. 
 ''I was young, I wanted to create, I came with nothing, no English,'' said Ms. Sivilia, 34. 
 Now, she employs eight people and a team of freelancers and her magazine, London Macadam, is available at 300 distribution points in London and 50 in Paris. She is among the legions of entrepreneurial refugees who have survived and thrived in England even as France's president, Nicolas Sarkozy, has been pushing forward a pro-capitalist agenda.
 Ms. Sivilia says she would consider returning to France but probably not as a business owner.
 ''I'd do like the English,'' she says with a laugh. ''I'd buy a house in the south of France. But while I'm in my entrepreneurial phase, I want to be here.'' 
 Such views add to the uphill battle that Mr. Sarkozy faces as he struggles to transform the economic soul of France. Sarkonomics, as the news media have called Mr. Sarkozy's brand of economic changes, has yet to meet expectations. 
 Mr. Sarkozy's poll numbers are falling. A series of transportation strikes last year greeted his proposals to change the government pension system. Thus far this year, taxi drivers and air traffic controllers have also held strikes.
 Mr. Sarkozy's outspoken nature and colorful personal life have also made him vulnerable to criticism. But he has pressed ahead with his views of how France's generous cradle-to-grave entitlements should change.
 In December, Mr. Sarkozy said he was considering 100 measures that included ways to streamline France's bureaucracy and provide more consumer-friendly services to business and the public. The proposals included cutting the cost of red tape on business by 25 percent.
 Many French entrepreneurs are continuing to push for still more changes. Olivier Cadic, 44, started a computer manufacturer in France in 1982 called Info Elec and moved it to Kent in 1997. He later sold that company and started another, Cinebook, which translates comic books like Lucky Luke and Asterix and sells them in markets like the United States and Australia. In 2007, Mr. Cadic ran for and won one of 12 seats in the French Senate reserved for representatives of French expatriate voters, and he does not mask his enthusiasm for Mr. Sarkozy and his policies.
 Economists, however, say France will have to make much deeper changes to its culture's attitude toward capitalism if it intends to keep young entrepreneurs at home. 
 Access to start-up financing remains difficult and markets in many industries are often monopolized by large conglomerates, said Elie Cohen, a leading French economist. 
 Moreover, legislation limiting the workweek to 35 hours hurts small businesses more than large. Contrasting France with Germany and Italy and their networks of robust -- often family-run -- multinational companies, he said, ''We don't have a fabric of small and midsize enterprises; it's an essential weakness.'' 
 ''The rules are made for the big enterprises, not for the small,'' Mr. Cohen added. 
 There are now an estimated half a million French men and women living and working in England, most of them under 35. The waves of refugee entrepreneurs fleeing to England shows no signs of abating.
 Today, amid the sheep meadows and the hop gardens in Kent County, more than 5,200 people, a mix of French and English, work at more than 75 French companies.
 ''Change may come, but France is not a country of evolution, but of revolution,'' said Jean-Claude Cothias, who left France a decade ago to found Eikos, a consulting company. ''Something has to go, to collapse, then you fix it,'' Mr. Cothias, 34, said. ''England fixes things all the time.''
 As France struggles to redefine its approach to capitalism, the British are benefiting from policies that they themselves officially oppose: the free movement of capital and workers across European borders. 
 Throughout much of Britain, resistance to some aspects of the European Union remains strong. For instance, the country continues to reject adoption of the euro or the Schengen Accord, which eliminated border controls among most European Union countries, including France, Spain and Germany.
 But in these parts, politicians and business leaders alike speak about the benefits of trade.
 Ashford, in Kent, is the first stop in England on the Channel Tunnel train, less than an hour from Lille and London and less than two hours from Paris. 
 ''From down here you can look out and see Northern France,'' said Alan Marsh, responsible for international relations in the Kent County Council. ''It's very comforting.'' 
 Among the first young entrepreneurs to reach Kent, Mr. Cothias founded Eikos in 1998 after the French company that had employed him refused to let him establish a subsidiary in Britain. To register his company in Britain cost him $:1, or about $2. In France, his parents would have had to mortgage the family home to pay the applicable fees, he said. 
 He also learned that while an employer in France must pay pension, unemployment and social security charges that add up to 48 percent of an employee's salary, British employers pay only about 10 percent. 
 He says he believes that such differences reveal a deeper philosophical divide. ''The economy is viewed here as something needed, one of the most important parts of society, if you want everyone to be clothed and fed,'' Mr. Cothias said. ''This creates a totally different environment for business.''
 The complaints of businessmen like Mr. Cothias have not gone unheeded in the halls of government in Paris. Three years ago, he was invited with several other emigre business owners to meet a government minister. One change that resulted from their criticism was a reduction in the fee for registering a new company in France to one euro, about $1.53. 
 Even the British know they will not hold onto all the French that come, and they say that is good for both Britain and France. ''They get qualifications that they can then repatriate in the French language,'' said Paul Wookey, the chief executive of Locate in Kent, a marketing organization that encourages foreign investment in the county. ''That's what pushes the French economy along.'' 
 Some business experts caution French businesses that Britain does not always guarantee success in offering the benefits that businesses seek. Patricia Goodenough, whose agency, Advent UK, helps young French entrepreneurs migrate, said that only about one in four of the French citizens she sent to Britain had actually made it in business. ''Some didn't do well,'' she said. ''The dreamers, not the doers.'' 
 In Paris, at the headquarters of the Center for Young Business Leaders, an organization that encourages entrepreneurship, Thomas Chaudron, the president, said that business success in any country was arduous. 
 He said that since the late 1990s, when much of the migration to England occurred, the number of start-ups in France had consistently risen. In 2007, the number rose almost 6 percent over 2006, to 339,957. Since 1997, the figure has increased about 26 percent.
 Mr. Chaudron, 34, started a business near Chartres, France, in 1997 making office partitions. It now has 35 employees and $10 million of revenue. In any country, entrepreneurship faces challenges, regardless of the government's support, he said.
 ''It's not like buying a baguette,'' he said. ''It's an adventure.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Change may come, but France is not a country of evolution, but of revolution,'' said Jean-Claude Cothias, who left France 10 years ago to found a consulting company in Ashford, England. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN PLAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C4)
 Caroline Sivilia left Paris for London to start a magazine. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN PLAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); STARTUPS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); WORK WEEK (67%); COMPUTER MAKERS (50%)

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (91%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (96%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%) FRANCE (97%); ENGLAND (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2008



278 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Hostility Has Its Rewards

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

DATELINE: MENLO PARK, Calif. 

 BODY:
''It's crazy to say you will only grow through innovation,'' Larry Ellison, the hard-charging chief executive of Oracle, was telling me last week. ''It's bizarre that there's a stigma to buying something rather than building it yourself.''
 Here in Silicon Valley, where entrepreneurialism is a religion, people have long taken a dim view of acquisitions. A big purchase was, as Mr. Ellison put it, ''a confession that there's a failure to innovate.'' 
 That is until Mr. Ellison decided about four years ago to go Rambo on this high-tech province of button-downs and khakis with a hostile $10.3 billion bid for PeopleSoft. At first, the bid was considered barbaric. Everyone said Mr. Ellison was bound to fail. After all, as they love to say here, a technology company's most valuable assets -- its engineers -- walk out the door every evening. And with a hostile bidder circling, PeopleSoft's engineers were bound to run.
 Only they didn't.
 I had sought out Mr. Ellison, in part, because if there's one person responsible for the current run of hostile takeovers in Silicon Valley -- Microsoft's $44.6 billion bid for Yahoo and Electronic Arts' $2 billion offer for Take-Two Interactive -- it may be him. He not only made it acceptable to pursue hostile deals, he proved they could work -- more than once. He just sealed a hostile $8.5 billion acquisition of rival BEA Systems in January.
 And before executives at Microsoft and E.A. ever went hostile, they spent countless hours studying Mr. Ellison's successes, debating whether a public bid would destroy the prizes they so coveted. 
 Never known for modesty, Mr. Ellison suggested, ''They are copying us.'' He added, ''Others would be foolish not to try.''
 Nevertheless, a pervasive and illogical fear of consolidation is still very much alive here. Over egg-white omelets at Buck's in Woodside or Vietnamese at Tamarine in Palo Alto, conversation invariably turns to Yahoo or Take-Two. 
 Yahoo is ''under attack from Darth Vader'' one venture capitalist told me. ''It's a game developer's nightmare,'' a banker said of E.A.'s bid for Take-Two.
 The act of merging has always been an emotionally tortured process for corporate America. But at most Fortune 500 companies -- where hired hands, not founders, run the business -- economics usually wins out over hearts and minds (except in the airline industry recently, where Northwest's pilot's union has so far managed to hijack a deal with Delta).
 But in Silicon Valley, unlike elsewhere in the country, even some of the biggest companies like Yahoo are ''are still run by founders who are unwilling to sell for emotional reasons,'' Mr. Ellison said, perhaps taking a swipe at Jerry Yang, Yahoo's chief executive and co-founder, who has been frantically searching for an alternative to Microsoft's bid. 
 ''Sometimes,'' he said, ''they have a hard time separating their emotions from what's best for shareholders.'' Mr. Ellison even allowed that he would have a hard time selling his own business. ''I'm very emotionally involved,'' he said.
 Mr. Ellison, whose distaste for Microsoft is legendary, hinted that he's actually rooting for his longtime nemesis over his neighbor, Yahoo. ''I've certainly watched Bill for years,'' he said, referring to Bill Gates, Microsoft's chairman and co-founder. ''MSN is modestly successful. It would be a formidable portal combined with Yahoo.''
 So far, neither Microsoft nor Electronic Arts has yet to become overtly hostile by starting a proxy contest, still hoping that by handling their targets with care they can win them over. But Mr. Ellison suggested that kid gloves aren't necessary. 
 ''What makes you think that engineers are happier, for example, working at PeopleSoft rather than at Oracle?'' he asked. ''Who says it's unfriendly?'' 
 The people who are most likely to scream and moan about an acquisition are the marketing people and salespeople -- who, by the way, are the most dispensable, he said. Granted, Mr. Ellison may not deserve all the credit -- or blame -- for the recent outbreak of hostility in the Valley. Some here say Mr. Ellison bought PeopleSoft for its long-term service contracts with big corporations, rather than for its ability to innovate. 
 So if the engineers left, it didn't matter. PeopleSoft had a defensible business model, at least in the short term.
 Whatever the case, Silicon Valley needs to wake up to the fact it is soon going to be a consolidating place, if it isn't already. As Mr. Ellison said, ''Our industry is maturing.'' Like child stars, many of its companies have to grow up fast -- not act like spoiled kids. 
 The latest news on mergers and acquisitions can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Larry Ellison, head of Oracle, argues that there should be no ''stigma to buying something rather than building it yourself.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) (pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (88%); ACQUISITIONS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (71%); HIJACKING (64%); AIRLINES (61%)

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (92%); YAHOO! INC (86%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (54%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (54%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (92%); YHOO (NASDAQ) (86%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); TTWO (NASDAQ) (54%); EA (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (86%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (86%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (86%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE J ELLISON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2008



279 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-10
 5 U.S. Soldiers in Iraq Die In Blast by Suicide Bomber
 A man walked up to a group of American soldiers in an upscale shopping district in central Baghdad and blew up the explosives-filled vest he was wearing, killing four of the soldiers and wounding three others and an Iraqi interpreter who accompanied them. A fifth soldier died later. A1 
 Revival for Bhutto's Widower 
 Asif Ali Zardari, the widower of the slain opposition leader Benazir Bhutto, now sits at the pinnacle of Pakistani politics, a startling comeback for a man who spent 11 years in jail on corruption and murder charges. A8 
 Talks, but No Truce, in Gaza
 A senior Israeli official and leaders of militant groups in Gaza have held talks with Egyptian officials in recent days, but Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel denied that Israel was engaged in talks to broker a truce, despite several days of relative quiet near the Gaza border. A3 
 Plan to Ease Troop Rotations
 The commander of American forces in South Korea is urging the Pentagon to allow thousands of troops stationed there to have spouses and children live with them during tours of duty. A10 
 China Keeps One-Child Policy
 China's top population official said the country's one-child-per-couple family planning policy would not change for at least another decade, refuting speculation that officials were considering adjustments to compensate for demographic pressures. A10 
 NATIONALA12-20
 Obama Rejects Idea
 Of Back Seat on Ticket
 Senator Barack Obama suggested that Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton were being duplicitous in their suggestion that he take the No. 2 spot on the Democratic ticket. Mr. Obama said they were implying that on one hand he was not ready to be president, but on the other hand he could solve the party's political impasse by joining together with her. A20 
 Democrats' Wiretap Proposal
 House Democratic leaders are readying a proposal that rejects legal protection to phone companies that helped in the National Security Agency's wiretapping program after the Sept. 11 attacks. A17
 Pollution From 'Clean' Fuel
 Residents of an Alabama subdivision noticed that an oily, fetid substance had begun fouling the Black Warrior River, which runs through their backyards. It turned out to be from an old chemical factory that had been converted into the state's first biodiesel plant, a refinery that intended to turn soybean oil into earth-friendly fuel. A12 
 Balance of Power Dispute
 The confrontation between the White House and Congressional Democrats escalated Monday as the House Judiciary Committee asked a federal judge to force Harriet E. Miers, the former White House counsel, and Joshua B. Bolten, the White House chief of staff, to provide information about the dismissals of federal prosecutors in 2007. A17 
 NEW YORK/REGIONC11-12
 Sex Scandal Threatens To End Spitzer's Career
 Gov. Eliot Spitzer was a client of a high-end prostitution ring broken up by federal authorities, according to law enforcement officials, a development that threatened to end the governor's career and turn the state's political world upside down.A1 
 Reports that Governor Spitzer was said to have solicited a high-end prostitute dumbfounded New Yorkers.C11
 BUSINESS DAYC1-10 
 Private Equity Plummets
 Private-equity moguls came to symbolize an era of hyper-wealth on Wall Street. Now their fortunes are plummeting and investors fear that some could buckle under heavy debt burdens now that a recession seems almost certain. A1 
 Business DigestC2 
 SCIENCE TIMESD1-8
 7 Billion Years From the End
 About 7.59 billion years from now Earth will be dragged from its orbit by an engorged red Sun and spiral to its death, according to new calculations by astronomers, Klaus-Peter Schroeder of the University of Guanajuato in Mexico and Robert Connon Smith of the University of Sussex in England.D1
 Health & FitnessD5

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); EXPLOSIVES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); MURDER (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICS (75%); CORRUPTION (74%); SCANDALS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); CHILDREN (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); WIRETAPPING (66%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); BIOFUELS (65%); WATER POLLUTION (65%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (61%); FAMILY PLANNING (53%); SEX SCANDALS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); BARACK OBAMA (74%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (70%); EHUD OLMERT (58%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); EGYPT (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2008



280 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: WellPoint Cuts Its Outlook, Sending Shivers Through Shares of Health Insurers

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
Shares of WellPoint, one of the nation's largest health insurers, plummeted more than 16 percent in after-hours trading Monday after the company lowered its profit forecast, citing higher medical costs and lower-than-expected insurance enrollments. 
 Shares of other big insurers also fell in after-hours trading on the WellPoint news. Humana was off by more than 10 percent, Aetna declined by about 10 percent and UnitedHealth Group was down nearly 9 percent. 
 WellPoint, the leading provider of for-profit Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans, said it expected profits this year in the range of $5.76 to $6.01 a share, down from the previous forecast of $6.41, according to Reuters.
 Angela F. Braly, WellPoint's president and chief executive, said in a statement that the revisions were because of ''higher than expected medical costs'' and lower than expected growth in enrollment in the company's insurance offerings for individuals and small businesses, as well as some fallout from ''the changing economic environment.''
 Overall enrollment was up 417,000 members in the first two months of 2008. But that growth was mainly in administering benefits for self-insured large employers, which is usually less profitable for insurers than providing coverage for small businesses and individuals. 
 There was also a shortfall in expected enrollment in WellPoint's Medicare Advantage H.M.O. plans, Ms. Braly said. A surge in flu patients this winter added to the insurer's medical costs for members of its health maintenance organizations.
 Sheryl Skolnick, a health care analyst with CRT Capital in Stamford, Conn., said the surprise in earnings guidance would contribute to a Wall Street perception that WellPoint's new management team was ''not wonderful.'' Ms. Braly succeeded Larry C. Glasscock as chief executive in February 2007. 
 But analysts said other health insurers like United might face some of the same problems as WellPoint with enrollment and rising medical costs. In insurance premiums, ''prices are higher than people feel they are able to afford,'' Ms. Skolnick said, especially for individuals who buy their own insurance because they do not have coverage from an employer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); MEDICARE (72%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (63%)

COMPANY: WELLPOINT INC (90%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (71%); UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: WLP (NYSE) (90%); UNH (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (71%)

PERSON: ANGELA BRALY (78%); LARRY GLASSCOCK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2008



281 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: A Weaker Dollar?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Double Bubble Trouble'' (Op-Ed, March 5): 
 Stephen S. Roach's proposal to weaken the dollar as a way to relieve America's current economic challenges is just another form of protectionism. He seeks to protect United States companies from the need to innovate and improve through the bad prescription of a still weaker dollar. 
 Dollar depreciation is no substitute for enhanced competitiveness. Indeed, such an approach can yield higher inflation and reduced productivity. Although initially dollar depreciation would translate into increased revenue for United States exporters, there is no free lunch when it comes to foreign trade. 
 With such companies porking up from increased revenue achieved solely through a reduced foreign exchange rate, those businesses might well develop a disincentive for making the productivity-enhancing investments necessary to flourish in a demanding world marketplace. Why make such investments with uncertain returns, they might well ask, when lower currency values could yield similar benefits and seemingly at no cost? 
 In reality, if a nation wishes to achieve an improved trade balance, a better approach would lead to its businesses making the capital, human resources and best-practices investments necessary to achieve and maintain sizable gains in productivity. Only then could such companies build sustainable competitive advantages over their foreign competitors. 
 A strong dollar is key to creating an environment conducive to such investments.
 Donald Sutherland Research Fellow, Institute for Socioeconomic Studies White Plains, March 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); PRODUCTIVITY (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); BEST PRACTICES (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); INFLATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008



282 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Turkey Set to Invest in Better Relations With Kurds

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE; Sebnem Arsu contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ANKARA, Turkey 

 BODY:
Turkey's government is planning a broad series of investments worth as much as $12 billion in the country's largely Kurdish southeast, in a new economic effort intended to create jobs and draw young men away from militancy, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said. 
 The program is intended to drain support for the militant Kurdish group, the Kurdistan Workers' Party, by improving the lives of Turkey's impoverished Kurdish minority, Mr. Erdogan said in an interview with The New York Times on Tuesday. 
 As part of the push, the government will dedicate a state television channel to Kurdish language broadcasting, a measure that Kurds in Turkey have sought for years. The Turkish state has imposed severe restrictions on the use of Kurdish, arguing that allowing that freedom would strengthen the Kurds' desire to form a separate state.
 Turkey, a vibrant Muslim democracy and a strong American ally, has for years fought the militant group, known as the P.K.K., which hides in Turkey and Iraq and seeks greater autonomy for Kurds in Turkey.
 That fight has put it at odds with the United States, whose strongest allies in the war in Iraq are Kurds. But after an ambush of Turkish troops last fall, and subsequent lobbying by Mr. Erdogan and the Turkish military, the Bush administration agreed to let Turkey strike at the group inside Iraq, opening up airspace there and even offering intelligence. 
 ''Turkey is not a guest,'' said Mr. Erdogan, 54, sitting in a cream-colored high-backed chair in his official residence in Ankara, Turkey's capital. ''Everyone who has entered Iraq until now will stay for a while and go away, but we will stay.''
 ''We are the most important door for northern Iraq to open up to the world,'' he added. ''We are the healthiest door.''
 Last month, Turkey conducted an eight-day ground offensive into Iraq, and Mr. Erdogan said that the United States had been fully behind it.
 ''I can openly and freely say that this short process has been done with the total understanding of Turkey, the United States and the central government of Iraq,'' he said. 
 ''But the fight against terrorism is not only this,'' he added. ''It also has a socioeconomic part, a psychological part, a cultural part.''
 Mr. Erdogan was the first public figure to speak openly about Turkey's troubles with its Kurdish population in a speech several years ago that won him a measure of respect among Turkey's approximately 12 million Kurds, about a sixth of its population. Kurds voted in large numbers for his political party in a national election last July. Since then, many say his efforts have stalled, replaced by frequent military operations just over the border.
 Mr. Erdogan sought to allay Kurds' fears Tuesday, emphasizing Turkey's efforts to engage them on both sides of the border. Turkey has chosen not to negotiate directly with the Kurdish enclave in northern Iraq, led by Massoud Barzani, despite the fact that many of the militants it is chasing hide in that territory. Mr. Erdogan added, however, that informal contacts had been made with the area's representatives.
 ''We have relatives in northern Iraq,'' he said. ''And people living there have relatives in our southeastern region. With whom will we have good relations other than with ourselves?''
 Efforts to improve relations with Iraq include plans to open a consulate in the southern city of Basra, Mr. Erdogan said. Turkey has an embassy in Baghdad and a consulate in Mosul, a major city in the north. 
 Mr. Erdogan is still identifying funds for the economic effort, which was started years ago by a previous administration but languished. The state will invest between $11 billion and $12 billion over five years to build two large dams and a system of water canals, complete paved roads and remove land mines from the fields along the Syrian border, he said.
 Plans for the project will be completed within two months, he said, at which point construction on the two dams will begin. He said he had dedicated one of his deputy prime ministers to visit cities across the largely Kurdish southeast to work on it. 
 ''Everything we can see in the western part of the country we can see in the east,'' he said. 
 The television channel will also include Persian and Arabic, Mr. Erdogan said, and should be running in several months. ''This will be the most important step providing cultural rights to the region,'' he said.
 Turkey, a member of NATO, has ambitions to join the European Union, though Mr. Erdogan has recently come under criticism for allowing the required democratic and economic retooling needed for membership to drop from the agenda. 
 ''There is no stalling or slowing down,'' he said. ''We are determined.'' 
 A social security law required to meet European standards will be submitted to Parliament in the next two to three weeks, he said, and a long-awaited revision of a law that limits freedom of speech is nearly ready. At every weekly cabinet meeting, one of the topics is Turkey's European bid, and each ministry is working on it. 
 ''There is no alternative for us other than full membership,'' Mr. Erdogan said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Turkey would finance projects in Kurdish regions and start a Kurdish TV channel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LYNSEY ADDARIO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOB CREATION (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (71%); TERRORISM (71%); ARMED FORCES (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); IRAQ WAR (67%)

ORGANIZATION: KONGRA-GEL (57%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANKARA, TURKEY (92%) TURKEY (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008



283 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: In Santa Fe, on the Trail Of New Deal Artists

BYLINE: By JORI FINKEL

DATELINE: SANTA FE, N.M. 

 BODY:
 IT seems as if every artist living in New York in the 1930s worked for the government through one New Deal program or another. Walker Evans was hired to photograph the effects of the Great Depression on rural families. A young Jacob Lawrence was paid to produce murals and easel paintings in Harlem. Even the Dutch-born Willem de Kooning received money from the government to paint -- decades before he became an American citizen. 
 But New York was hardly the only center of New Deal artistic activity. Another hub was northern New Mexico, where more than a hundred artists -- including prominent American Indians -- signed on to the government payroll. Although scholarship on their involvement has been spotty at best, local curators say that is beginning to change.
 ''When we look back at the Depression and that time frame, I think we have images of soup lines in New York and factory workers put out of jobs,'' said Shelby Tisdale, director of the Museum of Indian Arts & Culture/Laboratory of Anthropology in Santa Fe. ''A lot of people don't even realize that there were Native American artists involved in the New Deal.'' 
 Her museum has organized a group show, running April 5 through Aug. 31, to help set the record straight. On exhibit will be art objects created by American Indians in 1934 under the Public Works of Art Project, a predecessor of the Works Progress Administration. 
 The National New Deal Preservation Association is also holding a symposium, from April 5 to 6 at the museum, on American Indian projects under the program. Topics will range from individual artists to economic policies.
 The events are part of the celebration of the 75th anniversary of the New Deal, which Franklin D. Roosevelt initiated in 1933. The preservation association's Web site, newdeallegacy.org, lists other events and exhibitions this year. The organization's goals include education as well as the documentation and restoration of New Deal projects, said Kathryn A. Flynn, executive director. 
 Ms. Flynn said that her interest in the period was ignited when she was deputy secretary of state for New Mexico in the 1990s. One of her first projects was to compile its Blue Book. ''Anything you wanted to know about New Mexico -- government, education, museums, history,'' she said. She was thinking about what illustrations to use in the book when someone suggested murals. 
 ''A mural flashed into my head from Eastern New Mexico University in Portales, and I wondered why it was there,'' Ms. Flynn said. ''From there I was off and running.''
 In New Mexico alone, she ultimately found 65 murals or mural-size paintings, 650 easel paintings, 10 sculptures and hundreds of American Indian and Hispanic crafts created under the New Deal. 
 ''And that's just what remains in public buildings,'' she said. 
 In addition, she has identified 30 American Indians who were active during New Deal programs in the state and thinks there were others who were not documented. This research fed her book on the subject, ''Treasures on New Mexico Trails: Discover New Deal Art and Architecture,'' published in 1995. 
 According to her book, it was Roosevelt's appointment of John Collier as commissioner of the Bureau of Indian Affairs in 1933 that led to American Indian participation. Besides his drive for social reform, emphasizing self-government by the tribes, Collier had an abiding -- if perhaps overly romantic -- interest in American Indian art. 
 He was a good friend of the colorful Taos arts patron Mabel Dodge Luhan and even lived in the area briefly during the 1920s.
 Valerie Verzuh, collections manager at the Museum of Indian Arts & Culture, who organized the New Deal show, said that she, too, ''was surprised to discover the level of involvement of Native American artists in the New Deal.'' 
 About five years ago, the museum received a National Endowment for the Humanities grant to catalog its collection. ''That's when we went through all the pottery, weaving and fine art, piece by piece,'' she said. 
 They found about 110 objects in her collection made during the New Deal by American Indians. About half are Hopi kachina dolls, which the museum does not display at the request of local tribal leaders, who view them as sacred objects. The April show, she said, will consist solely of secular objects: Hopi figurines, Navajo weavings and, perhaps most prized, American Indian pottery.
 The dozen or so pots to be displayed were created under the program by the celebrated husband-and-wife teams of Maria and Julian Martinez, from the San Ildefonso Pueblo, and Lela and Evangelio Gutierrez, from the Santa Clara Pueblo, both near Santa Fe. 
 ''Both of these couples made really traditional wares that have an Art Deco feeling,'' Ms. Verzuh said. She noted that the pots were not thrown but built up by hand through the coil-and-scrape method. ''The woman usually makes the pot and the man paints.'' 
 Lela Gutierrez was known for making polychrome pottery, using multicolored clay slips to build earth tones into traditional redware forms. 
 Even more famous, Maria Martinez made her name with black-on-black pottery, developing an elaborate technique for creating glossy black pots with matte-black designs.
 Another American Indian who participated in the New Deal was Pablita Velarde. Her work is featured in a 2007 show at the museum that was extended until April 13 to coincide with the New Deal activities. Because she was a woman, her father discouraged her from painting, but when she was only 16 she became part of a mural painting team at the Santa Fe Indian School under the Public Works Art Project. 
 In 1939, when she was 21, she was hired by the W.P.A. under the supervision of the National Park Service to create paintings of American Indian life for a museum at the visitors center of Bandelier National Monument in New Mexico. Over six years, she completed more than 80 paintings in casein on fiberboard and glass, many of which remained in storage until the Santa Fe show.
 She was considered a pioneer in other ways, starting with her $5 a day salary. 
 ''With the Bandelier project she made more money than the men with the Civilian Conservation Corps,'' Ms. Flynn said. ''She made enough money that she was able to build her own house on the pueblo, and that made her unique.''
 Others point to her subjects -- everyday life and dance and customs on the 20th-century pueblo -- as innovative. ''I find her work inspiring,'' said Nora Naranjo-Morse, a Santa Clara potter whose mother was Pablita Velarde's cousin. 
 Ms. Naranjo-Morse singles out a painting called ''Governor Greets the Tourists'' as one of Ms. Velarde's most powerful works. It shows an American Indian in traditional dress who stands just outside his pueblo facing a blue car packed with tourists. His right hand is raised. 
 ''You would think that he's welcoming the tourists because his hand is up, but the gesture is not really clear,'' she said. ''He could be wondering: 'Who are these people?' ''
 Another Santa Fe museum, the New Mexico Museum of Art, also has a small New Deal exhibition drawn from its collection. The show, which runs through May 18, includes one work by an American Indian: a Zia Pueblo artist named Velino Shije Herrera, also known as Ma Pe Wi. His watercolor, on long-term loan from the General Services Administration, depicts three women grinding corn, with native pottery at their feet and peppers hanging over their heads.
 You can see other examples of his work in Washington at the Department of the Interior, where he was part of a larger mural project, or at the Santa Fe Indian School, where he began painting in 1917. 
 This school is one of many cultural institutions and associations that made Santa Fe such a magnet for artists -- and ultimately for government financing, Ms. Flynn said. 
 ''There's no doubt New York was loaded with artists, and California was loaded,'' she said. ''But I think New Mexico may have had more people per capita working on these projects. It's an amazing part of our history, and we haven't seen anything like it since.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PUEBLO: The New Deal show includes this jar by Maria and Julian Martinez, W.P.A. artists. Ms. Martinez, right, in 1941. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WYATT DAVIS/PALACE OF THE GOVERNORS (MNM/DCA))
 FRESH LOOK: Valerie Verzuh, left, collections manager for the Museum of Indian Arts & Culture/Laboratory of Anthropology, and Joyce Begay-Foss setting up the New Deal show. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK SCIBELLI JR. FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (92%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PAINTING (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (63%); CITIZENSHIP (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (94%) NEW MEXICO, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008



284 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Creative Visions, but for Many Millions Less

BYLINE: By THOMAS MULLANEY

DATELINE: Chicago 

 BODY:
 MUSEUMS have been called the cathedrals of the modern age. New construction projects trumpet a $100 million redesign here, a $300 million building there, totals worthy of a Carnegie, a Morgan or a latter-day Medici.
 But as two recent Chicago projects show, not all museum construction has to cost in the nine figures. 
 The Hyde Park Art Center, designed by Doug Garofalo, and the Spertus Institute of Jewish Studies, by Ron Krueck and Mark Sexton, have earned praise for realizing their clients' big dreams on significantly smaller construction budgets -- a bare-bones $3 million for the art center and $39 million at Spertus.
 Joseph Rosa, the curator of architecture and design at the Art Institute of Chicago, where a $285 million expansion by Renzo Piano is under way, praised the economy of the smaller projects. ''Good design doesn't know finance,'' he said. ''It's all a matter of aesthetics and taste. People think the more money you throw at a building, the better it is. That's a wrong assumption.'' 
 The Hyde Park museum, which had never had a permanent home since opening in 1939, had spent the previous 18 years in a tiny maze of rooms in a former hotel lobby. From his first day as director in 1998, Chuck Thurow wanted a new, larger building that would ''speak and spark creativity.'' 
 The center has been an alternative art space throughout its history. ''Perpetually Strange,'' a retrospective book issued for the opening of the new building in 2006, aptly captures its mission as a haven for promising artists and art on the fringes. Once-unknown exhibitors like Leon Golub, Ed Paschke, Roger Brown and Ruth Duckworth went on to fashion major careers. Lately, it has given Juan Chavez, Kerry James Marshall and Dawoud Bey early exposure.
 Mr. Thurow hired Mr. Garofalo, a pioneer in digital design, after the University of Chicago gave the center a long-term lease on an old Army warehouse for $1. The architect kept the warehouse's original shape but gutted the interior.
 ''It was a blessing to get such a mundane building,'' Mr. Garofalo said. ''It had so little character that there was no fear of losing anything significant.''
 He punched roughly 25 windows in the masonry to bring light into the galleries. Walls became movable inserts. 
 The art center's gallery and studio spaces tripled, and there was room for new offerings: a digital lab for high school and college students, studios for visiting artists, a cafe and a meeting space named 4833 rph -- the address and initials of Ruth Horwich, the center's main benefactor for 45 years.
 Mr. Garofalo wanted a building that ''changes every time people come.'' He designed an 80-foot-long L.E.D. projection facade along the east wall -- a 21st-century canvas to display video artwork. He then placed five corrugated metal garage doors below the projection screen. When opened, they create a plaza extending the main gallery onto the street.
 All architecture involves compromises, but when budgets are smaller, the compromises are greater. Both the Hyde Park and Spertus buildings eliminated certain features to stay within budget. The architects say that ''value engineering'' -- deciding what is affordable -- is the bane of good design. ''Value engineering is value lost,'' Mr. Krueck said.
 Though Mr. Garofalo had to jettison the building's crown and a rooftop garden, he insisted on one novel touch: lime-green epoxy floors. Initially resistant, Mr. Thurow now says the floors add to the center's new identity. 
 He praised Mr. Garofalo's efforts to improve the design. ''Doug was a good listener who didn't try to push us in any preconceived direction,'' he said. 
 At the Spertus Institute, Howard Sulkin, its president, wanted to leave the pre-World War I building it had occupied since 1974. Its bland facade and segregated floor plan masked the full range of activity within. Art collectors were reluctant to lend because the museum lacked humidity controls. Mr. Sulkin said the institute was failing to tell the story of Jewish culture to the wider city audience.
 Rather than retrofit, the board chose to start anew at a narrow site -- just 80 feet wide -- that was next door. Krueck & Sexton, a local firm, was hired only after the preferred architect, from New York, complained that the budget should be 40 percent higher and that the timetable for construction was unrealistic.
 After winning the commission, Mr. Krueck said, he looked at his partner in the taxi back to the office and asked, ''Now, how are we going to do it?''
 Spertus proved a demanding client. Betsy Gomberg, the director of institutional outreach, said Spertus gave the architects requirements that included integrating the institute's three elements (Spertus College, Spertus Museum and Asher Library), and making it inviting and open to the city. Mr. Sulkin said the institute, in the post-9/11 era, rejected the ''typical Jewish approach of building higher barriers'' in favor of ''a totally optimistic building.''
 Beyond that, it had to include a theater, high-tech classrooms, a gift shop and a kosher cafe. The museum occupies the top two floors and houses 15,000 works of fine art, ritual objects and cultural artifacts like immigration documents and family prayer books. Its east wall gives visitors panoramic views of Grant Park and Lake Michigan.
 Krueck & Sexton followed the script but enhanced the design with its most striking feature: a crystalline facade of 726 panes of glass in more than 500 sizes that fold in and attach at the building's wall seams. 
 Mr. Sulkin said he worried about the design. After studying the initial drawings, he told the architects, ''This is not a Jewish building.'' Learning in Jewish culture, he explained, is a lifelong, unending pursuit. Rather than a flat cornice, the building's top should reach for the sky. So it now wears an open crown.
 The toughest challenge was building the facade without blowing the budget. Mr. Sexton said he knew that traditional design practices of multiple drawings, testing and revision would not work within the budget constraints. The solution lay, he said, in contracting with an engineering-building firm with greater glass fabrication experience. That contractor not only had to execute the design but make the budget as well. 
 The contractor built a mock-up of the glass facade to be sure that it could withstand high winds and rain without leaking. The materials tested exceptionally tight and leak free on the first try, a rare feat.
 The 10-story institute sits on the city's front yard in a landmark district dominated by older stone and terra cotta structures. It has drawn near-unanimous praise from the client, the critics and the public. 
 Mr. Sexton, however, said he preferred the reaction of a 12-year-old girl he saw pass the building, look up and declare, ''Cool architecture!''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 15, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in the special Museums section on Tuesday with an article about two Chicago building projects reversed the identities of two architects who designed the Spertus Institute of Jewish Studies. Mark Sexton was at the left and Ron Krueck was on the right.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ROOM TO VIEW: The Spertus Museum has 15,000 works of art and artifacts, not to mention sweeping views of Lake Michigan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
TALL ORDER: Ron Krueck, left, and Mark Sexton faced many constraints in creating the Spertus Institute's home. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 TRANSFORMATION: The architect Doug Garofalo was happy to have a mundane old warehouse to work from in Hyde Park. MODERN CANVAS: At the Hyde Park Art Center, the gallery starts on the side of the building with a projection screen for video art. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (79%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (61%); JEWS & JUDAISM (56%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008



285 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: In Miami, a Director With an Eye for the Fresh and the Local

 BODY:
BONNIE CLEARWATER recognized Miami's potential to become an important arts center as far back as 1990, on a visit from Los Angeles. At the time, South Beach was a somewhat desolate spot on the cusp of revitalization, and a local collector and developer enticed Ms. Clearwater to work her magic discovering new talent in Miami as she had done on the West Coast.
 ''Craig Robins, who was just starting to develop the area, encouraged me to move to Miami Beach with the idea that my husband and I would help be catalysts to develop an art scene here,'' said Ms. Clearwater, who with her husband, Jim Clearwater, had started the art-book publishing company Grassfield Press, which he still operates. 
 They made the move, and nearly two decades later, as the director and chief curator of the Museum of Contemporary Art in North Miami, Ms. Clearwater continues to animate the scene in this eclectic area, capitalizing on a lively community of artists and collectors as well as the crowds that the Art Basel fair brings every December. 
 Her work at the museum has been recognized most recently by a $5 million grant from the Knight Foundation, which will be used to endow the exhibition program of emerging artists. The money is part of $60 million that the foundation, based in Miami, is investing in the local cultural community. The foundation hopes to build on the enthusiasm generated by Art Basel, which began in 2002 and attracts about 8,000 of the museum's 70,000 annual visitors as the international art world descends en masse on the city. 
 MOCA, as it is known, is also poised to break ground on an expansion with a concept design by Charles Gwathmey, the architect of the museum's first building.
 ''In my eyes, Bonnie's one of the prime movers in the community,'' said Martin Z. Margulies, who has one of Miami's foremost contemporary art collections that is open to the public. ''She's built that museum from the ground up with a constituency and collection.''
 Ms. Clearwater has been a prominent member of the art world since she finished graduate school at Columbia in the late 1970s, where she studied both modern and medieval art. She was the personal curator for Leonard A. Lauder, the cosmetics magnate and chairman of the Whitney Museum of American Art, for six years while she also ran the Mark Rothko Foundation in New York. She moved to Los Angeles in the mid-1980s to direct the Lannan Foundation and then run the foundation of the collector Peter Norton. In both these jobs, she identified and supported emerging and underrecognized artists. 
 Originally from Rockland County, N.Y., Ms. Clearwater had found it eye-opening to be in Los Angeles during a pivotal time in the city's cultural development, and she and her husband were game to try another city with a fresh perspective.
 In Miami, she found a vibrant community of artists invigorated by the influx of internationally recognized Cubans -- including Jose Bedia, who moved to the city in the early 1990s -- as well as a few of the top collectors in the world, including Mr. Margulies and Irma and Norman Braman, Rosa and Carlos de la Cruz and Paul and Estelle Berg. 
 What Miami did not have was a contemporary museum to galvanize the collectors and create connections. 
 MOCA originated in 1981 as a modest alternative space for local artists; Ms. Clearwater was hired as chief curator in 1994. Plans were already under way for a new building -- Gwathmey's first design for a freestanding museum -- and a mandate to become a collecting institution focused on local and international artists. The new building opened in 1996, and Ms. Clearwater became director the following year.
 ''I wanted to prove that you could do an institution in which everybody mixed at the same level, particularly with a population that is so culturally diverse and greatly itinerant as in Miami,'' Ms. Clearwater said. ''One of my concerns about the art world is that, due to fund-raising needs, museums are offering people exclusivity to the point where donors and top members never intermix with artists anymore, let alone people from the neighborhood.'' 
 Ms. Clearwater said that her education in medieval studies has influenced her holistic approach to running the museum. ''Medieval methodology is actually perfect for what I'm doing today with contemporary work, because it takes the position that art is interconnected with all aspects of life -- society, beliefs, economics, politics,'' she said, pointing to a recent exhibition of Jorge Pardo's work, which embodies this approach. ''It's not this rarefied object.'' 
 From the start, the museum has been a part of the City of North Miami, which paid $3.75 million for the 1996 building and continues to provide a third of its annual operating budget. 
 ''The city sees the museum as the anchor of its downtown corridor that's being redeveloped as an arts and entertainment district,'' Ms. Clearwater said, adding that freedom from the financial burden of maintaining the museum had given her more agility with collecting and exhibitions. 
 The city will also pay for the $18 million expansion, due to be completed in 2010. In turn, residents of North Miami -- predominantly Haitian, African-American, Hispanic and Anglo populations -- receive the same privileges as members, including access to openings and Art Basel events. ''The idea is to find ways for people to enter and engage at whatever level they're at in relationship to contemporary art,'' Ms. Clearwater said.
 MOCA's expanding education programs, aimed mostly at teenagers, have helped involve the community. Teaching students skills they can use in school and their careers is a commitment of Ms. Clearwater. For instance, the junior docent after-school program trains teenagers how to give tours to their peers, and a summer journalism institute teaches them how to write about art.
 An innovative outreach program called ''Women on the Rise'' uses the work of contemporary artists like Louise Bourgeois, Ana Mendieta and Kara Walker to help teenage girls at six juvenile centers in Miami-Dade County explore female sexuality, body image and ethnicity. It is the first time many of the participants of these programs, who come mostly from low-income families, have been to a museum. 
 Irma Braman, chairwoman of MOCA's board, said Ms. Clearwater's most excited calls to her would usually be ''about a letter from a student that says, 'I'm teaching art now,' or 'I was just accepted at the University of Miami with a full scholarship and this never would have happened had I not wandered into the museum.' '' 
 In January, MOCA announced a museum-studies partnership with the Miami-Dade County Public Schools, financed partly by a $10.4 million grant from the United States Department of Education. MOCA educators will train teachers to use objects and artifacts in their curriculums from kindergarten through the 12th grade. Students will also come to the museum for exposure to contemporary art and artists. 
 ''It's a completely integrated approach,'' Ms. Clearwater said. ''Seven thousand students will have this as part of their entire ongoing curriculum.''
 With MOCA about to more than double in size, Ms. Clearwater has been concentrating on how to retain this kind of open-door policy. 
 ''There's been a trend nationally that as contemporary museums expand they find that their overhead is too enormous to sustain a program of emerging and underrecognized artists, because without name recognition it's hard to get the substantial funding you need,'' Ms. Clearwater said. 
 So when the Knight Foundation asked MOCA what the museum needed to ensure its longevity, Ms. Clearwater decided it could use an endowment devoted to showing experimental multimedia artists and new talent. 
 As chief curator, Ms. Clearwater has a record of giving solo museum debuts to artists who are now internationally recognized, including Matthew Ritchie, Inka Essenhigh and Roxy Paine, as well as artists from Florida like Teresita Fernandez, Mark Handforth and Hernan Bas. 
 The Miami artist Daniel Arsham, who was part of an alternative space run by artists called the House, got his first museum exposure in 2001 at age 20, when Ms. Clearwater organized ''The House at MOCA,'' showing him and 15 of his peers. ''For a lot of the people involved in that exhibition who have since gone on to show in Miami and elsewhere, that was their first museum show,'' Mr. Arsham said. ''She put all this faith into us, which seemed like a bold move at the time.'' 
 ''When people would come to town, especially for the art fairs, she pushed them to go see work that was being made here and come to our openings,'' he added. ''As an institution, MOCA has this dual purpose of showing our work and showing us the work of other younger artists from elsewhere.'' 
 As Ms. Clearwater said, ''There is so much momentum now in Miami institutionally.'' Her current show, ''Pivot Points,'' highlights important gifts to the museum from Miami collectors. ''The community has embraced the arts, particularly contemporary art, and now with the aid from the Knight Foundation we have the opportunity to get to the next level.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bonnie Clearwater, director of the Museum of Contemporary Art in North Miami, which is about to double in size. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CINDY KARP FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENDOWMENTS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ART COLLECTING (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); COSMETICS (71%); PUBLISHING (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (66%); BOOK PUBLISHING (54%)

COMPANY: BOOK PUBLISHING CO (70%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%)

PERSON: LEONARD LAUDER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008



286 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: Trade Gap Widens a Bit; Slump Lifts Exports

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit widened slightly in January, as oil prices pushed imports higher, even though slow economic growth reduced the demand for many foreign goods.
 The monthly trade gap widened less than 1 percent, to $58.2 billion, held partly in check by a weak dollar that helped propel exports to a record $148.2 billion, a Commerce Department report released on Tuesday showed. 
 ''While the trade gap widened slightly in January,'' a senior economist with Bank of America, Peter Kretzmer, said, ''it remained well below its average for fourth quarter 2007.''
 Net exports could add 0.8 percent to economic growth this quarter, Mr. Kretzmer said, ''helping to offset domestic demand growth that has come to a virtual halt in recent months.''
 Exports have risen for 11 consecutive months, making them a source of strength for the American economy, which is suffering from crises in housing and the credit markets.
 Paul Ashworth of Capital Economics wrote: ''Over all, the dollar's decline and the domestic recession are having the predictable effects on the trade deficit. Unfortunately, much of that improvement is being offset by soaring energy prices.'' 
 Oil imports totaled $27.1 billion in January, a record, as prices for imported oil increased to an average of $84.09 a barrel. In New York trading on Tuesday, crude oil for April delivery continued to rise, settling at $108.75 a barrel, up from $107.90 late Monday. 
 The petroleum part of the trade deficit exceeded the nonpetroleum share for the first time since October 1992, reflecting both the run-up in oil prices and slackening demand for foreign-made goods like television sets, clothing, appliance and furniture.
 Imports of industrial machinery and other capital goods also fell in January.
 Imports from China, whose currency trades in a range linked somewhat to the dollar, rose nearly 2 percent in January, to $26.2 billion. Those from European Union nations fell 4.6 percent, to $27.3 billion. 
 United States exports rose 1.6 percent in January, to a record $148.2 billion, led by industrial and consumer goods and food. But shipments to China fell 15.1 percent, to $5.9 billion. 

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: BALANCE OF TRADE: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) Graph showing the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008



287 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: Upton Sinclair, Now Playing on YouTube

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
AN undercover vegan wired with a camera no bigger than a sugar cube spent six weeks last fall working at a Southern California slaughterhouse. To fit in, he brought sandwiches made with soy riblets and ate them in a dusty parking lot with the other workers.
 He tried not to worry about the emotional toll that long days escorting cows to the kill might have. He had more practical concerns, like whether the camera switch hidden in his pocket would fail or a cow would smash into him and crack the recording equipment taped to his body.
 The Humane Society of the United States first gave a 32-minute video made from his footage to the San Bernardino County district attorney, then in January released an edited version on its Web site and to a newspaper. The video showed workers flipping sick dairy cows with forklifts, prodding them with electricity and dragging them with chains to be processed into ground meat, some of which likely ended up in chili and tacos at public school cafeterias. 
 It was as if someone gave Upton Sinclair a video camera and a Web link. Animal cruelty charges were filed, the slaughterhouse was shut down and Congress held hearings. The Agriculture Department announced the recall of more than 143 million pounds of meat -- the largest in the nation's history. (Cows so sick they can't walk can't legally be processed into food because they may have mad cow disease, also known as bovine spongiform encephalopathy, a form of which can be passed on to humans.)
 After more than 25 years of tactics that have included tossing a dead raccoon on to the lunch plate of Anna Wintour, the Vogue editor; boycotting fast-food restaurants; and staging legal challenges, the animal rights movement had a bona fide hit. 
 A new generation of cameras so small they can be hidden in eyeglass frames or a hat -- together with the rise of YouTube and the growing appeal of so-called citizen journalism -- has done for animal rights advocates what the best-organized protest could not. Perhaps more than other social agitators, people concerned about animals raised for food have discovered that downloadable video can be the most potent weapon in their arsenal. 
 ''Most activist organizations working on a national or international scale have already integrated all kinds of Internet content into their strategy,'' said Eric Klinenberg, the author of ''Fighting for Air: The Battle to Control America's Media'' (Metropolitan Books, 2007) and an associate professor of sociology at New York University.
 Video downloads can be especially effective if they are picked up by the mainstream media and if they portray something plausible to an audience increasingly sophisticated at dissecting images on the Internet, he said.
 ''Sometimes a video will just catch on and be powerful regardless of your political perspectives,'' he said. ''Americans know enough about the inside of the food industry now to believe an image like this.'' 
 That it came from the least radical of the animal rights groups using undercover video helped. It was also part of a well-coordinated legal and media strategy. The undercover vegan is on the Humane Society's 10-person investigative team. He applied for a job at the Westland/Hallmark Meat Company in Chino, Calif., after his efforts to investigate another plant failed. 
 ''I went to this place almost on a hunch,'' the investigator said in an interview last week. ''Really, that is exactly how it happened. It was too good to be true.''
 The undercover vegan agreed to be interviewed only if his identity was kept private because he fears retaliation. He declined to talk about certain aspects because of continuing civil and criminal investigations tied to his work at the plant.
 The success of the Humane Society video was built on decades of trial and error by animal rights advocates who have spent years dragging bulky cameras around to slaughterhouses, sometimes posing as employees.
 Ingrid Newkirk, a founder of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), pioneered the technique in the early 1980s when she hid in a cardboard box outside a laboratory, serving as lookout for an undercover employee photographing mistreated monkeys inside. The case led to federal reforms that improved life for research animals.
 By the 1990s, animal rights advocates had started turning an increasingly accessible generation of video cameras on farm animals. 
 Sometimes the images helped end inhumane practices. But often, local law enforcement officials would not prosecute what appeared to be abuses of animals. Some videos were exposed as creatively edited frauds, with images taken out of context. Others were simply too gruesome for most people to watch.
 The Westland/Hallmark video was shot and edited in ways that made it more effective than some earlier undercover slaughterhouse videos, according to people who work in the meat processing industry and longtime animal rights advocates. The film showed clear legal violations but avoided the bloody images of many undercover videos. As a result, local and national television stations could replay the images over and over. 
 ''The video itself had the right balance of violence,'' said Wayne Pacelle, the president and chief operating officer of the Humane Society.
 In addition, the public was more likely to relate to large mammals being mistreated in the name of ground beef for schoolchildren than to undercover images captured in the past, like ducks manhandled in the production of foie gras or Thanksgiving turkeys used as punching bags.
 The timing was right, too, coming when the level of public worry over food-borne pathogens and the oversight of the food supply is high.
 The power that video sharing has brought to animal rights advocates has led some meat processors to argue that their industry should start making videos of its own.
 ''Everything about slaughter and agriculture that is up on YouTube is the bad stuff,'' said Temple Grandin, the Colorado-based animal behavior expert who is a leading adviser to the cattle industry. ''We've got to get the good stuff up on YouTube.'' 
 To that end, the American Meat Institute is compiling a video showing humane, well-run slaughterhouses that could be released by this spring, said Janet Riley, a vice president of the national trade association, which represents most meat and poultry processors in the United States. 
 And last week, Agriculture Department officials said the agency would once again consider putting cameras in several hundred of the nation's slaughterhouses to watch out for inhumane handling and poor procedures. 
 But even images of the best slaughtering practices can be misunderstood, Ms. Riley said. Without some knowledge of what it takes to kill and process an animal, the average person can have difficulty evaluating slaughterhouse videos, whether they are meant as exposes or promotions.
 ''The fact is, you could be absolutely, 100 percent in perfect compliance, but if someone is not used to seeing the slaughter process it would be unsettling,'' she said. 
 Of course, the transparency Ms. Riley and Dr. Grandin advocate does not appeal to everyone in the meat business. Many want to work harder to keep recording devices out of slaughterhouses -- something Dr. Grandin thinks will be impossible. 
 ''How are you going to keep the cameras out when they're as big as the pearl buttons on my Western shirt?'' she said.
 Several states have laws restricting photography and videography of what are broadly referred to as ''animal enterprises,'' including circuses, medical laboratories and ranches. And in 2006, Congress passed the Animal Enterprise Terrorism Act, which makes behavior that results in damage to or the economic disruption of an animal enterprise illegal. The laws were in part a reaction to the increased use of hidden video cameras, Ms. Newkirk said. 
 Just when the movement has mastered the nuance of the medium, such legal blocks plus the increasing cost of investigations are making things difficult for even the most dedicated undercover campaigner.
 With research, legal fees, production costs and accommodations, an investigation can cost as much as $67,000, Ms. Newkirk said. And investigators who work for the Humane Society and PETA say it is getting tougher to get hired at plants because managers are increasingly suspicious of applicants who don't fit the profile of the typical slaughterhouse worker, often a Spanish-speaking immigrant. 
 But the success of this video has given the technique a boost. ''A picture is worth a thousand words, but a good video is worth a million,'' Ms. Newkirk said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SMILE?: The button is a camera.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F1)
A CASE OF ABUSE: A tiny camera, above. An undercover animal rights advocate captured video of a cow being picked up by a forklift, right.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BELOW, HUMANE SOCIETY OF THE UNITED STATES)(pg. F3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (90%); MEAT FREE DIETS (90%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (89%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (88%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); FAST FOOD (77%); ANIMAL WELFARE (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); WRITERS (73%); JOURNALISM (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (71%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); LITIGATION (69%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (68%); RESTAURANTS (68%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (67%); HISTORY (65%); BOYCOTTS (63%); CITIZEN JOURNALISM (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (54%); WEB SITES (54%); SUITS & CLAIMS (53%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMANE SOCIETY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008



288 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1690 words

HEADLINE: Slavery Divides Again

BYLINE: By JULIA M. KLEIN

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Va. 

 BODY:
 MAYOR L. DOUGLAS WILDER used to beg his reluctant father, born in 1886, to tell him stories about how his parents fared during slavery. 
 After some urging, ''my father used to talk about how his father and mother were separated,'' Mr. Wilder said. According to the family's oral history, Mr. Wilder's grandfather walked 18 miles each way every weekend to see his wife and children in Ashland, Va. Because he never got a travel pass, the white overseer at his Richmond plantation threatened to whip him as punishment. 
 Mr. Wilder said that his grandfather told the overseer: ''You know -- this is foolish. I'm not going anywhere.'' Sympathetic, the overseer suggested a solution that would satisfy the slave master, ''I'll whip this saddle, and you have to try and act like I'm beating you.''
 Tales like this will be preserved by the United States National Slavery Museum, which, Mr. Wilder said, will explore how slavery served for centuries as the country's economic engine, benefiting both the North and the South. 
 ''The story we'll tell is how slavery was a business,'' he said.
 That is, if the cash-strapped project becomes a reality. For the lack of fund-raising success so far, Mr. Wilder faulted the economy, the subject, competing African-American museums and mayoral obligations that have limited his time on the project. 
 Nevertheless, Mr. Wilder, 77, a former governor of Virginia, remains undaunted. He has been nurturing the idea since a 1992 visit to Goree Island in Senegal, where he saw the Door of No Return at the House of Slaves memorial. Overlooking the ocean, this was the last stop for kidnapped Africans before they were forced onto slave ships. The next year, at a conference in Gabon, Mr. Wilder announced his museum plans. 
 Mr. Wilder considered three main sites in Virginia: Jamestown, Richmond and Hampton. He settled on 38 acres of pasture and woodland in Fredericksburg, near Interstate 95. The land was donated by Larry D. Silver, the developer behind Celebrate Virginia, a project involving offices, hotels, residences, a golf resort and a water park. 
 As of now, the only sign of the museum is the Spirit of Freedom Exhibit Garden, whose centerpiece is a sculpture of a man whose unshackled hands are raised to the sky.
 Mr. Wilder said that was about to change. The first phase of the $200 million project, a $10 million visitor center, will be built this year, he said. But the opening date of the museum itself -- designed by the architect C. C. Pei, a son of I. M. Pei -- remains unclear. 
 Only about $50 million, including pledges and in-kind donations, has been raised so far, museum officials say. The entertainer Bill Cosby, a board member, has donated about $1.2 million, Mr. Wilder said, but corporate, foundation and government money has been harder to come by. 
 ''It's the damnedest time in the world to talk about raising money, with the recession being what it is,'' he said. 
 Vonita W. Foster, executive director of the museum, said fund-raising had slowed over the last couple of years. ''We were doing real well till Katrina hit,'' she said. ''We had foundations and companies tell us that they had to redirect funds. It was just devastating.''
 A fund-raiser in Washington in June 2006, with performances by Ben Vereen and Mr. Cosby, netted about $50,000, Ms. Foster said. Corporate fund-raising was so disappointing that the museum, at Mr. Cosby's suggestion, started a campaign urging that every American donate $8. But that effort has raised less than $1 million, she said. 
 The museum, once built, will be ''transformative,'' said Lyn Henley, a Topanga, Calif., exhibition designer whose past projects include the ''Trail of Tears'' display at the Cherokee Heritage Center in Tahlequah, Okla. ''I think people who visit the museum will leave it changed. Any time you look at slavery, you're looking at the dark side of humanity, our evil side. To look at that and see how people have overcome it is inspirational.'' 
 The exhibition is designed to start with an African village, showing how people lived before they were enslaved. To evoke families being torn apart, ''we're going to separate families a little bit,'' and museum passageways will narrow to symbolize the loss of freedom, Ms. Henley said. The shipboard experience will be captured by firsthand accounts. 
 The upper level will depict the arrival of enslaved Africans on American shores. Among the exhibitions, Ms. Henley said, will be documents ''of the founding fathers and the slaves they held, and the slaves that they held in their arms or raped.'' 
 Displays will also demonstrate how slaves maintained their religion, communities and family ties ''even when family members were sold away, even at great personal risk,'' Ms. Henley said. 
 The story will continue through the Civil War and end with a legacy section that features a theatrical presentation and artifacts showing the persistence of racial stereotyping in America. ''The theme,'' Ms. Henley said, ''is, 'We are one people.' Moral rules need to apply to everyone.'' 
 Mr. Wilder chose Mr. Pei to design the museum after he expressed interest in the project. ''He let me know he wasn't looking for some kind of derivative design that would speak about the horror of slavery,'' Mr. Pei said, ''but wanted something that was forward-looking.'' 
 Mr. Pei's solution is a Modernist style structure: roughly speaking, a split cube with the two halves joined asymmetrically by a glass atrium. In the atrium will be a replica of a slave ship. 
 Despite the museum's promise to conclude visits on an uplifting note, Mr. Wilder said that resistance to the subject remained strong. ''More whites are interested in it,'' he said. ''They know that it's a story that needs to be told.'' But within the African-American community, he said he found ''a subliminal resistance -- not spoken, it's not articulated. It's an uncomfortable thing.'' 
 Ms. Foster said that about three-quarters of the corporations she had approached had declined to donate. ''You know, slavery is not a touchy-feely topic,'' she said. ''People are a little nervous about it. My pitch is that this is simply American history.'' 
 Corporations that have responded most generously are Philip Morris USA, based in Richmond, which has given $250,000; Wachovia Corporation, which has given $100,000 to the museum's educational program; and SunTrust Banks, which gave $60,000. 
 Georgette Dixon, senior vice president and manager of national partnerships for the Wachovia Foundation, said that Wachovia, which in 2005 apologized for its ties to the slave economy, was ''committed to promoting and preserving African-American history.'' As for other corporations, Ms. Dixon added, ''they just have to look at what their priorities are and determine where this fits within their priorities.'' 
 Mr. Wilder said that his project would be the first American museum to treat slavery in such depth. But he added that the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of African American History and Culture, scheduled to open on the National Mall in 2015 and also covering slavery, has been an obvious rival for money and attention. 
 That museum's council includes Oprah Winfrey; the music producer Quincy Jones; Robert L. Johnson, chief executive of Black Entertainment Television; and Kenneth I. Chenault, chairman and chief executive officer of American Express. 
 ''We ran into considerable opposition from the people who wanted to construct the thing on the Mall in Washington,'' Mr. Wildersaid. ''There were people who felt that if we were to get started we'd be asking for federal money, which we will be and we have.'' He added that backers of the Washington museum said: '' 'Don't give it to them -- give it to us.' ''
 Lonnie G. Bunch, director of the Mall museum, said: ''I have no idea about what he's talking about. I know I and my staff have been extremely supportive of the work that Doug Wilder is doing, and in my mind I'm not in competition at all.''
 Because of its Smithsonian affiliation and Mall location, Mr. Bunch said that his institution would have greater visibility. ''That doesn't mean that people who support me think that what Doug Wilder is doing isn't important,'' he said. But he added that ''it's always hard to raise money when you're exploring subjects that sometimes are considered difficult.''
 Representative James E. Clyburn, Democrat of South Carolina and majority whip, calls Mr. Wilder's project ''a great concept -- if that's what you want to do.'' Mr. Clyburn, chairman of the board of another new museum, the International African American Museum, said that his museum, to be built in Charleston, would explore the achievements of South Carolina blacks, slave and free.
 ''You have to be very careful that you don't play into people's prejudices,'' Mr. Clyburn said. ''If you're going to be a slavery museum, I think it can be done in a way that doesn't celebrate it as an institution but deals with it as a historical fact that nobody should run away from, and no descendant should be ashamed of. It's the country that ought to be ashamed.'' 
 Gerald A. Foster, the United States National Slavery Museum's scholar in residence, said that the Fredericksburg museum was ''not interested in casting blame, or asking for reparations,'' but rather in telling ''a more comprehensive story of one of the most neglected chapters in American history.''
 Mr. Wilder said the museum had already wasted too much time and money holding academic conferences to discuss its contents and making ''all this fuss about what's in it, what's not in it.'' Having something concrete to show donors, like a visitor center, will break the fund-raising logjam, he is convinced. ''I'm not worried about anything other than the need for us to move past where we are and get something to come up out of the ground,'' he said. 
 Mr. Wilder also said he would spend time this spring, with Mr. Cosby and other museum supporters, wresting money from corporate leaders. He said he would look them in the face and say: ''O.K., now you know the deal. Now, I came for the check.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MAKING HISTORY: From left, a replica of auction-block footprints, featured in the slavery museum's garden
and artifacts to be exhibited: an iron used by slaves
an 1846 coin that could have been worn around the neck of a slave for safekeeping
and leg shackles. IN THE GARDEN: Wood panels by a Fredericksburg artist, Johnny P. Johnson, left
and donated carvings from Ghana. FIELD OF DREAMS: Vonita Foster, executive director, top, on the museum's future site. A model of the museum, above left, designed by the architect C. C. Pei
1928 sheet music to be displayed. Mayor L. Douglas Wilder of Richmond, right, the museum's visionary. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYRONE TURNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 PEI PARTNERSHIPS ARCHITECTS, LLP) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLAVERY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); HISTORY (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); FUNDRAISING (72%); EXHIBITIONS (72%); RESORTS (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (71%); GOVERNORS (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (62%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (61%); WATER PARKS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (94%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); GABON (79%); GHANA (79%); SENEGAL (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008



289 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Rising From Obscurity, Asian Art Reflects New York Success

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
STANDING before a graduate art history class at New York University one February morning, Melissa Chiu recounted how little more than a decade ago as a doctoral student in Australia, a professor raised questions about her choice of specialty: Chinese contemporary art.
 ''She told me I was crazy, and that I should really consider subjects that had a greater degree of professional opportunities,'' Ms. Chiu said, her usual calm broken by a giggle. ''She tried desperately to convince me otherwise. She told me I would never get a job.''
 Her concern proved unfounded. Ms. Chiu moved to Manhattan in 2001 when the Asia Society recruited her as its first curator of contemporary Asian and Asian-American Art -- at the time, the only position of its kind in the United States.
 In 2004, after curating exhibitions like ''Paradise No! Contemporary Art From the Pacific'' and ''Cai Guo-Qiang, an Explosion Event: Light Cycle Over Central Park'' and helping to found the Asian Contemporary Art Consortium, the society promoted her to museum director. 
 Last September, the museum announced a new acquisition program, built on a gift of 28 works of video and new-media art and an endowment goal of $10 million toward the care and conservation of the Asia Society Contemporary Art Collection. 
 More recently, she organized the show ''Zhang Huan: Altered States,'' the artist's first museum retrospective, and Ms. Chiu is curating a historical overview of 30 years of contemporary Chinese arts for the American Federation of the Arts. She has become such a hot ticket on the lecture circuit that she decided to write a book, ''7 Things You Need to Know About Chinese Contemporary Art,'' which is due out this month. 
 ''The scene has reached a critical kind of tipping point,'' Ms. Chiu, 36, said in an interview in her corner office at the society, overlooking Park Avenue. (Her husband, Benjamin Gennochio, is a regular contributor to The New York Times.) 
 ''I think it's a convergence of factors,'' she continued, citing China's rise as a global power and the rapid maturation of its art scene, spurred by the international market and frenetic interest from Europe and America. ''And with the Chinese Olympics this summer, it feels like it's kind of our moment.''
 Though the society's attention-getting entry into contemporary Asian art began in 1998 with its ''Inside Out: New Chinese Art'' shows at the society and the P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center, Ms. Chiu dates the current boom to 2005, when Christie's folded Chinese contemporary art into its Asian art auctions in Hong Kong.
 The next year, Sotheby's held its first contemporary Asian art auction in New York, where Zhang Xiaogang's ''Bloodline Series: Comrade No. 120'' sold for $979,200, more than double the estimate. Since then, Chinese artists, particularly painters, have entered mainstream auctions. In November, Mr. Zhang's ''Family Portrait,'' also of the ''Bloodline Series,'' brought $4.4 million.
 Some major museums have broadened their contemporary Asian art efforts within existing departments. Others have established new departments, like at the Guggenheim, where Alexandra Munroe was hired as the first senior curator of Asian art two years ago. 
 ''I don't think there's a boom so much as that the market has suddenly migrated for all sorts of obvious reasons to looking to China,'' said Glenn D. Lowry, director of the Museum of Modern Art. ''You're looking at cultures that have had rich contemporary art practices. It's not that they just started making art, it's that we've suddenly started looking at them.''
 Ms. Munroe of the Guggenheim said: ''It's a very interesting story of how a field gets born,. ''These artists are coming from cultural and political realities that we cannot even fathom. I think the temptation too often is to focus on market trends and to miss the cultural and political and aesthetic system, and even the poetic system.''
 ''I think people are finally waking up,'' she added. ''This is brilliant, wonderful, innovative, exciting and important work. It's not just a phenomenon; it's the way the world is going.''
 That response erupted even earlier in Australia, Ms. Chiu said, when in the 1980s and '90s the country recognized that its economic future lay with Asia and invested heavily in the cultural sector. From 1996 to 2001, she worked as the founding director of the Asia-Australia Arts Center in Sydney, a contemporary art center that focused on the exchange between Asia and Australia through exhibitions, performances and film festivals. 
 She was well suited to the task, having a Chinese father and an Australian mother and reared as a child in Darwin. 
 ''It was kind of a Crocodile Dundee existence,'' Ms. Chiu said, recalling her home, which faced the beach, and a crocodile that ambled down Main Street. ''It's so far north that it's out on its own, and it has a really diverse Asian and indigenous population. In the early years in its history, it was a Chinese settlement.''
 In 2001, when she was recruited by the society, her first task was to figure out how to bring contemporary artists into the museum. One undertaking was to help create the Asian Contemporary Art Week, a citywide venture of museums, galleries and curators who came together ''to look at how we could push the discussion,'' she said of the event. This year's gathering will be held March 15 through 24, with more than 100 artists presenting their works in 60 special events at 46 galleries and museums.
 Her next step was to establish the acquisitions program, which will concentrate on new-media art, video and photography, fields, she said, where some of the most compelling works are being made nowadays. ''Artists in Asia often feel like it's the medium that best suits the fast-paced changes in China, Korea, Tokyo and India,'' she said. ''There's a kind of immediacy to it.''
 The effort has demanded perseverance. ''Most museums don't undertake new collections today,'' Ms. Chiu said. ''It required a lot of groundwork for us as an institution to decide to collect in contemporary art. I do think that when one thinks of art, immediately one thinks of painting. So for the museum to focus on new art and photography is kind of a bold statement.'' 
 She has also traveled with Harold and Ruth Newman, trustees whose gift helped establish the collecting initiative. ''I asked Melissa, 'If you had your druthers, what would you want to do in terms of forming a contemporary art collection?' and she told me, and I said, 'You've got it,' '' Mr. Newman recalled. 
 Because the museum is centered in the Asia Society, an institution that studies policy, history and contemporary life, it is well placed for art that bridges not only Asia and the United States but also the old and the new, Ms. Chiu said. 
 ''I think one of the important elements of what we do at the Asia Society,'' she said, ''is to connect the traditional and the contemporary -- not to always look at the contemporary as a ruptured kind of tradition.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NOW IT'S POPULAR: Melissa Chiu, director of the Asia Society's museum, in front of a contemporary painting by Zhang Xiaogang. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ART HISTORY (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); HISTORY (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); ART COLLECTING (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (72%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: THE ASIA SOCIETY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (88%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008



290 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: Serbia's Choice

 BODY:
Kosovo made a historic choice for independence last month. Serbia will soon have a chance to make its own historic choice -- either for a better future as part of the European Union or for isolation, stagnation and decline. 
 It is no surprise that Kosovo's declaration has led to the breakdown of Serbia's coalition government and a call for new elections. Kosovo has been a symbol of Serbian nationalism since the 14th century. Every significant political party in Serbia vowed to prevent Kosovo's independence, though they proved powerless to stop it. 
 Those parties now have different ideas about how to proceed. The Democratic Party of President Boris Tadic offers the most sensible policy. It favors moving quickly to qualify Serbia for membership in the European Union. That is an economic necessity. It also makes strategic and diplomatic sense. Serbia weakened its hand by allying with Russia against the European Union and refusing to negotiate in good faith over Kosovo independence.
 Serbia's voters endorsed Mr. Tadic's approach in January when they re-elected him president. His margin was narrow, and the anger that followed Kosovo's declaration may have strengthened ultranationalists who favor freezing relations with the European Union, so long as it supports Kosovo independence.
 A clear victory for Mr. Tadic's party would be best for Serbia, Europe and the United States. Washington and Brussels can help, not through a smothering embrace of Mr. Tadic, but through concrete steps to reassure and protect Kosovo's ethnic Serb minority. 
 Before declaring independence, Kosovo's predominantly ethnic Albanian government accepted a Western-backed plan for supervision of its new institutions. The NATO contingent that will remain in Kosovo and the European Union police and justice supervisory teams that have begun arriving need to ensure that Kosovo's Serbs are shielded against violence and discrimination and that their food and energy supplies are secure.
 The Bush administration, which has unequaled influence with the new Kosovo government, must insist that it continually demonstrate its desire for reconciliation with the Serb minority and with Belgrade.
 Yugoslavia's murderous implosion began almost two decades ago with Slobodan Milosevic's manipulation of Serbian nationalist passions over Kosovo. How fitting if that era could end this spring with a resounding vote for pragmatism and progress by Serbia's people.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); ETHNIC GROUPS (69%); DISCRIMINATION (69%); BAD FAITH (67%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) SERBIA (99%); EUROPE (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); BELGIUM (79%); ALBANIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008



291 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2128 words

HEADLINE: When the Final Touch Is the Exit Door

BYLINE: By DOROTHY SPEARS

 BODY:
WHEN the Milwaukee Art Museum completed its expansion in 2001, there was great acclaim. The soaring new pavilion by Santiago Calatrava was named design of the year by Time magazine, and it quickly became a reference point for visitors to the city.
 A few months later, before the final debt on the $125 million winged wonder had even been tallied, Russell Bowman, the museum's longtime director, marked the achievement in a way that has become common: he left.
 Since the mid-1990s, when the so-called Bilbao effect began to surge across the museum world, directors of art museums nationwide have been departing just after -- or right before -- their pet projects are completed. Although the details vary from museum to museum, directors agree that in the aftermath of reach-for-the-stars expansions by celebrity architects, the financial ground is shaky, nerves are frayed and the new building presents less of an end than an unwieldy -- and costly -- new beginning. 
 The $74 million expansion of the Indianapolis Museum of Art was months shy of being done when the director, Anthony Hirschel, abruptly resigned in November 2004, saying he ''no longer offered the best fit for the museum.'' In 2007, two years after unveiling the Herzog & de Meuron expansion at the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis, Kathy Halbreich announced that she was stepping down after 16 years as director, leaving behind disgruntled feelings in the city about visitor flow and difficult access to the new buildings. (Ms. Halbreich has recently assumed a new post as associate director of the Museum of Modern Art in New York.)
 ''There's the time during, and the time after, and they are very, very different,'' Marc Wilson, director of the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art in Kansas City, Mo., said of the expansion process. His museum finished its own expansion with the opening of a new Steven Holl-designed building last June. Many directors, he said, ''expire after that; it's a conundrum for a great many people.''
 Graham Beal, director of the Detroit Institute of Arts, where a $158 million redesign by Michael Graves opened last November, described expansion as ''an all-consuming project when it happens.'' He added, ''You're investing a huge amount, not just in terms of funds -- in terms of emotions, in terms of credibility.'' 
 When the building opens, he said, ''if it's not perfect, if things haven't gone as well as they should have, everyone's tired. And the director's tired as well.''
 Mr. Wilson and Mr. Beal are both cresting on the momentum that followed their unveilings, but they are among the many directors who cite exhaustion as the main reason for their departures. ''So much of your soul, or you could call it ego, goes into a new building,'' Mr. Wilson said, ''and to survive the difficulties that are inevitable -- because somebody always thinks you're stupid -- to survive all that, and not have it well received, well, it's very difficult.''
 Jay Gates, who will retire this spring as director of the Phillips Collection in Washington (after a renovation in 2006), said the greatest challenge faced by directors overseeing major expansions is persuading communities to see beyond ''bricks and mortar'' to the bigger picture of the museum's mission. 
 ''It's a difficult story to tell,'' he said. ''The questions that always lead are: Is it on time? Is it on budget?'' 
 Mr. Gates should know. In 1991, as director of the Seattle Art Museum, he oversaw the construction of a Robert Venturi building after repeated delays and contentious cost overruns. This was Seattle ''before the Bill Gates phenomenon,'' recalled Mr. Gates (who is no relation), and before Starbucks became a multinational giant. 
 The cost of the project was already at $60.1 million when overruns of $12 million led to a dispute between the contractor and the architect. The case was settled a year later, according to a lawyer for the museum. A year after that, Mr. Gates was the director of the Dallas Museum of Art. ''I needed to feel needed,'' he said.
 Over the last decade, such stories have become more familiar. Last month, the Bilbao effect seemed to come full circle, as the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation announced that Thomas Krens would be stepping down after directing the museum for nearly two decades. 
 Mr. Krens, whose vision for Bilbao transformed the museum world, will remain as a senior adviser, focusing on the institution's most ambitious satellite so far, in Abu Dhabi.
 Meanwhile, other museums are riding out the wave of their own expansionist dreams.
 In 2001, when ground was broken at the Detroit Institute of Arts, Mr. Beal said, the original budget of $91 million had already crept to $105 million, while the city showed signs of recession. Three years later, asbestos was discovered in the museum's existing building. Hearing that removal would cost $40 million, Mr. Beal added further renovations to the plan, despite a precipitous decline in state financing. 
 Typically, communities rally around major museum additions, but the Detroit project dragged on for six and a half years -- a year longer than first projected -- and after that long, Mr. Beal said, ''the common purpose starts to get very frayed at the edges.'' 
 Mr. Beal's reputation hinges on the success of the expansion, and so far, community leaders are behind him. ''Between the new building and the new art,'' said Eugene Gargaro Jr., chairman of the Detroit Institute's board, ''my expectations have been exceeded.'' Still, he added somewhat darkly, for all the money spent, ''there's the understanding that you're going to have something very, very special.'' 
 Mr. Gargaro is among a growing number of trustees nationwide who have pinned their civic hopes -- and, often, their names -- to new museum buildings. Great architecture and great art, the logic goes, will attract not only local and regional visitors but also art lovers all over. It will also attract tourists.
 Too often, Mr. Wilson said, building plans are sealed with a director's promise to lift local employment, revitalize urban centers and lure out-of-towners. ''Expectations are based on hype,'' he said. ''And directors go along with it because they can't raise the money any other way.'' 
 The good news is that for a year after the opening of a new building, a major spike in attendance can be expected. The bad news is that attendance consistently levels off after two or three years. That's when directors typically depart. 
 The renovation at the Milwaukee Art Museum, Mr. Calatrava's first building in the United States, is a sobering example of the trials directors go through. Early on, the project ran with an expected surplus, so the museum enlarged the scope. Underground parking was added, then a restaurant and landscaping.
 But problems developed concerning the building's wings, which were to be made from lightweight carbon fiber. After a long delay by local engineers, Mr. Calatrava said, the contractors ''were quoting a horrible price, like $25 million,'' for that part of the project. With only months remaining before the museum's scheduled opening, Mr. Calatrava devised an alternative: for a total of $3 million, the wings were made of steel in Spain and flown to Milwaukee.
 Still, the cost of the delay and the engineering change was substantial: $8 million, said David Gordon, who succeeded Mr. Bowman. 
 Mr. Calatrava said he believed the finished product was worth the trouble. ''I think it's perfect what they've done, finally,'' he said. ''They have delivered a beautiful thing to the city. And, finally, they raised the money.''
 But it came at a cost. The project wound up with a final debt of $25 million -- $30 million with interest -- which ''affected people badly,'' said Mr. Gordon, who retired the debt and then stepped down last month to become an arts consultant. 
 Mr. Bowman, who was director of the museum for 17 years, said that when he announced his resignation three months after the building opened, ''I did not know about the $25 million -- those numbers were not in.'' He added, ''You can argue we should have known, but we didn't.'' In any case, he said, ''the director's always accountable.'' 
 The problems are sometimes far worse. At the Bellevue Art Museum outside Seattle, even Mr. Holl's critically praised building could not offset an administration with no clear picture of what the community needed. The museum opened the $23 million building in January 2001. Two months later, the director, Diane Douglas, said she was resigning, effective a year later. Her replacement, Kathleen Harleman, then resigned in August 2003, and a month later, the museum closed because of ''failure to find an audience.'' (A museum of local arts and crafts, under new directorship, now occupies the building.)
 In some cities, including Los Angeles, Atlanta, Houston, Denver and Seattle, museum directors are faring better after their expansions, their promises more in keeping with the spirit of their communities. 
 Michael Shapiro, director of the High Museum of Art in Atlanta, where a 177,000-square-foot addition by Renzo Piano opened in November 2005, said these cities ''have not yet become truly great,'' but with diverse economies, soaring confidence and a hunger to stand out culturally, ''if the idea is big enough, people jump in and support it.'' 
 That said, sometimes the idea can be too big. The one million visitors expected the first year after the Denver Art Museum's $110 million expansion by Daniel Libeskind amounted to only 650,000, feeding talk about over-building. The director, Lewis Sharp, who had announced that he would retire when the building was done, was persuaded to stay on for three to five more years, until the postexpansion period stabilized. Among his many irksome duties: laying off 14 percent of the staff (there had been a 29 percent increase to handle the doubling of space) and fielding criticisms about Mr. Libeskind's vertigo-inducing design.
 Big civic projects often take a decade or more, so retirement immediately afterward has become common. At the Morgan Library and Museum and the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, at the Phillips Collection and at the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, directors have completed expansions as a career swan song.
 Mr. Sharp said the period after such work is a logical time for change: ''All right, I've built the building. It's tugged at me a long time. How long am I going to stay after? Do I do the programming and staffing? Or do I give that responsibility to someone else?'' 
 Mr. Piano, who has designed art museums in Atlanta, Los Angeles, Houston, Dallas and New York, said that, during construction, ''it's like a big romance in its most active moment, when you have to rush around the world to get your lover close to you. You're the director. You meet the architect. You fight. You discuss.'' But after the project is completed, he said, ''it's life. It's daily. And very few directors can survive the normality of daily life.''
 Some don't even try. As Michael Govan, director of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, said recently, ''It's no secret I've spent my entire career in building and expanding museums.'' Within three years of the 2003 opening of the Dia Art Foundation's light-filled galleries in a former biscuit factory in Beacon, N.Y., Mr. Govan, the heart and soul of that project, decamped to the Los Angeles museum to direct an even bigger building project. (The first phase of a three-part expansion, the Broad Museum of Contemporary Art, designed by Mr. Piano, opened last month.)
 Mr. Govan, who earlier oversaw the Guggenheim's planning for its Frank Gehry-designed outpost in Bilbao, Spain, recommended the practice of serial expansions. ''Like anything else in life, whether you're making an artwork, or even cooking a recipe, you can't help but make mistakes the first time you do it,'' he said. 
 Glenn Lowry, director of the Museum of Modern Art, where a $425 million extension was done on time and on budget, agreed that such feats make directors attractive to other institutions. ''These are high-profile events that bring people to prominence,'' he said. But he said he was staying put at MoMA, and recently signed a five-year contract there.
 At the New Museum of Contemporary Art in New York, the director, Lisa Phillips, delivered a 60,000-square-foot building by Kazuyo Sejima and Ryue Nishizawa on time and on budget. She pointed out that between fund-raising for the building and overseeing construction, directors are ''expanding their own skill sets as they expand the museum.''
 Ms. Phillips said she had no plans to leave the New Museum, adding, ''Of course, people are always calling.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 13, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in the special Museums section on Wednesday about museum directors who leave after the completion of expansion projects described the status of two directors incorrectly. Marc Wilson, director of the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art in Kansas City, Mo., and Graham Beal, director of the Detroit Institute of Arts, have not left their positions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 'ALL-CONSUMING': Graham Beal, left, director of the Detroit Institute of Arts, where a $158 million redesign by Michael Graves opened last November
and Marc Wilson, director of the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art in Kansas City, Mo., where a Steven Holl-designed building opened last June. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
MIKE SINCLAIR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. H16)
TRANSITIONS: From left, Russell Bowman, who left the Milwaukee Art Museum after its 2001 expansion
Michael Govan, who is directing a building project at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art
Kathy Halbreich, who departed the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis in 2007 and is now at the Museum of Modern Art in New York
and Thomas Krens, who stepped down last month as the director of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALLEN BRISSON-SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
MILWAUKEE ART MUSEUM
MARISSA ROTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
LUIS TEJIDO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (pg. H16)
 AFTERMATH: Lewis Sharp, director of the Denver Art Museum, which has undergone a $110 million expansion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. H1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (94%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (69%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (67%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (86%); MISSOURI, USA (86%); INDIANA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008



292 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: High Finance Backfires on Alabama County

BYLINE: By KYLE WHITMIRE and MARY WILLIAMS WALSH. 
Kyle Whitmire reported from Birmingham and Mary Williams Walsh from New York.

DATELINE: BIRMINGHAM, Ala. 

 BODY:
In 2002, a banker named Charles E. LeCroy arrived here with a novel pitch to ease taxpayers' burden. Some Wall Street wizardry, he said, could lighten their load.
 Six years on, officials here are still struggling to untangle the financial web that Mr. LeCroy and his fellow bankers spun. Jefferson County is teetering on the brink of bankruptcy after a series of exotic bond deals that the bankers concocted went wrong, and the interest on its debts, rather than shrinking as the bankers had promised, has ballooned like a bad subprime mortgage.
 Officials from Birmingham, the county seat, are trying to persuade Wall Street creditors to let them soften the terms of the deals. If they fail, the county could sink into in one of the biggest public bankruptcies in American history. 
 The running credit crisis and looming recession are squeezing communities across the country. But perhaps nothing else comes close to the financial fiasco unfolding here. 
 During the last few years, Jefferson County entered into a series of complex transactions, called swaps, worth a staggering $5.4 billion. The accusations and recriminations are flying. Talk of Wall Street tricks -- and local corruption -- has captivated residents and left many wondering how the county will pay its bills. 
 ''There are 101 messes up there, and they are not all cleaned up yet,'' said Jim White, the president of the Birmingham law firm of Porter White, which is advising the county on its finances.
 At the heart of this story are Mr. LeCroy, who arranged many of the transactions; a Montgomery investment banker, William Blount, whose firm, Blount Parrish & Company, earned larger fees than any other adviser on the transactions; and Larry P. Langford, the local official who signed off on the deals.
 As a managing director at JPMorgan Chase, Mr. LeCroy persuaded the county to convert its debt from fixed interest rates to adjustable rates. He also recommended that the county use interest-rate swaps that he said would protect it if interest rates rose. 
 Mr. LeCroy, however, is no longer in the bond business. He landed in prison for three months in 2005 in connection with a municipal corruption case in Philadelphia. He has left JPMorgan Chase and declined to comment for this article.
 Mr. Langford, now the mayor of Birmingham, previously oversaw the county's finances. He says he had no idea what Mr. LeCroy and the many other bankers on the deals were doing, and he asked for Mr. Blount's help in vetting their proposals. 
 ''I needed somebody to be able to tell me what all that stuff was,'' Mr. Langford said in a deposition in June. ''And even when they told me, I still don't understand 99 percent of it.''
 Mr. Langford, though, faces legal troubles of his own. The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating whether he steered bond underwriting business to Mr. Blount's company in return for payments, a claim he has denied. 
 Mr. Langford has a history of financial problems, including an ill-fated plan to build a local amusement park called VisionLand, and a self-professed propensity to shop. ''I like clothes,'' Mr. Langford said in his deposition.
 Bettye Fine Collins, who succeeded Mr. Langford as commission president in 2006, says Jefferson County is negotiating with its creditors, but the results are still uncertain.
 ''Those at the poverty level, those parents on the free lunch programs, I don't know how much they can bear,'' Ms. Collins said. ''They're probably paying $4 a gallon for regular gas, and everything in sight is going up except their salaries or their Social Security checks.''
 The troubles in Jefferson County, which is perched on the foothills of the Appalachian Mountains, began more than a decade ago. The county's sewers were discharging raw sewage into the Black Warrior and Cahaba Rivers during heavy rains. In 1996, a federal court ordered the county to refurbish the system. 
 Mr. LeCroy, first as a swap adviser and broker with Raymond James and later with JPMorgan, helped the county sell bonds to pay for the upgrade. But in 2002, after Mr. Langford was elected county president and vowed to rein in costs, Mr. LeCroy urged the county to reduce its interest payments by refinancing its debt and switching to adjustable rates from fixed rates. As a hedge, he recommended swaps. 
 The county ended up with 18 different swaps at one point, an extraordinary number for a county government. The notional value of the swaps surpassed the value of the bonds they were supposed to hedge. 
 Mr. Langford agreed to the plan -- and in the process locked Jefferson County into borrowings that may ruin the county, even though they have richly rewarded its bankers. 
 Last week, the county warned that it did not have enough money to cover the hedges, which ended up costing it money when rates moved in unexpected ways. The situation became critical when the insurance companies standing behind the bonds had their own credit ratings downgraded. Officials are trying to work out a stabilization plan, but the outcome is far from certain. 
 The county's financial dealings have also raised thorny legal questions, which in turn may make it harder to negotiate with its creditors. The S.E.C. deposed Mr. Langford last year in an effort to learn whether any securities laws had been broken when Jefferson County refinanced its bonds -- particularly the laws that bar bankers and others from ''buying'' lucrative municipal bond business by giving gifts to the officials who control the bond deals. 
 Instead of letting these bankers compete for the county's business in an open bidding, the five county commissioners divided up the deals among the people they knew.
 Mr. Langford said he chose people who had responded to his calls for money to send children to Bible camp and to support a charitable skeet shoot-off, as well as people who had helped him pay off his many debts. One of his donors was Mr. Blount. The S.E.C. also asked Mr. Langford about an e-mail message in which Mr. Blount warned Mr. LeCroy that the county commissioner was ''hitting us up'' for contributions to a ministry project.
 Mr. Langford said he chose the people he did because he knew they were capable and he trusted them. He said that Mr. LeCroy did not make any unusual payments to him. The S.E.C. also questioned him about payments that Mr. Blount had made to a local lobbyist who had paid off one of Mr. Langford's delinquent loans at about the same time. Mr. Langford said he did not know where the lobbyist got his money. 
 Jefferson County's case is an extreme one, but its missteps are not unique. Other communities around the country have also found themselves holding complex financial instruments that did not perform as advertised. As the troubles in the credit markets continue to spread, more such problems are likely to surface. Nor do many local governments hold open, competitive biddings when they issue bonds. 
 ''I don't think there's anyone who has been involved in the swaps and derivatives market to the extent that the Jefferson County sewer system was,'' said Paul Maco, director for the Securities and Exchange Commission's office of municipal securities during the Clinton administration. 
 Of 11 swaps and similar contracts Jefferson County went into from 2001 to 2003, eight were with JPMorgan Chase. A spokesman for the bank declined to comment. 
 For now, the residents of Jefferson County are bearing the burden of the ill-fated deals. Residents' sewer rates have tripled. And, residents say, the sewers still do not work properly.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 28, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 12 about financial problems in Jefferson County, Ala., stemming from a series of exotic bond deals, misidentified the business of the Birmingham firm of Porter White, which is advising the county on its finances. It is an investment banking firm, not a law firm. The article also misidentified the elective office of Larry P. Langford, a local official who signed off on the bond deals. He was elected a county commissioner in 2002 and was appointed president by his fellow commissioners; he was not elected county president. The article also misstated the degree to which sewer bills have increased in the last decade, partly as a result of the ill-fated deals. With an increase of more than 300 percent, they have quadrupled -- not tripled.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bettye Fine Collins (PHOTOGRAPH BY BIRMINGHAM NEWS) (pg. C1) MAP: Residents wonder how Jefferson County will pay its bills. (pg. C7) Map of Jefferson County in Alabama. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); COUNTIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BONDS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); MAYORS (74%); CORRUPTION (72%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (71%); RECESSION (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SUBPRIME LENDING (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); LEGAL SERVICES (69%); LAWYERS (66%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (55%); HISTORY (54%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); BLOUNT PARRISH & CO INC (66%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (90%) ALABAMA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008



293 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: Fed Offers Wall St. Banks New Loans to Ease Crisis

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS; Eric Dash contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Impelled to take extraordinary measures for the second time in less than a week, the Federal Reserve moved on Tuesday to subdue the deepening crisis in credit markets by stepping up as lender of last resort.
 In an action that sent stock prices soaring, the central bank offered to let the biggest investment banks on Wall Street borrow up to $200 billion in Treasury securities in exchange for hard-to-sell mortgage-backed securities as collateral. And the Fed made clear that it was prepared to do more as needed.
 The move, which was coordinated with central banks in Europe and Canada, came on the heels of two similar actions on Friday, in which the Fed offered up to $200 billion in 28-day cash loans to banks and big financial institutions.
 But where investors were unimpressed by last week's efforts, which took place as the government announced that the number of jobs was falling, they were jubilant on Tuesday. The Dow Jones industrial average soared 416 points, or 3.6 percent, in its biggest increase in points in more than five years. The dollar enjoyed at least a momentary reprieve from its protracted plunge against other major currencies. 
 The Federal Reserve, in effect, is trying to ease an acute credit squeeze by agreeing to hold large volumes of mortgage-backed bonds that Wall Street firms are struggling to sell and providing them with either cash or Treasury securities that they can immediately convert to cash.
 Fed officials are increasingly convinced that the United States is sliding into a recession, and they worry that the deepening credit squeeze will aggravate the problem by making it even harder for consumers and businesses to borrow money for houses, new equipment or new factories.
 The Fed's hope is to relieve some of the pressure on institutions to sell at fire-sale prices, easing the strains on economic activity and making the credit markets feel more comfortable in buying mortgage bonds again.
 Despite the staggering sums being offered by the Fed over the past week, some analysts warned that the new infusion of money might not be enough to fill the hole caused by the losses on ill-conceived mortgages during the housing bubble. 
 ''They are essentially creating a $300 billion bank out of nothing,'' said Lou Crandall, chief economist at Wrightson ICAP, a financial research firm. 
 But while the Fed's moves may relieve short-term cash problems, Mr. Crandall said, ''it doesn't solve the fundamental issue, which is the decline of capital in the banking system.''
 Indeed, some analysts warned that the central bank might make things worse in the long run by postponing the repricing of mortgage assets that financial institutions are holding, or by further weakening the value of the dollar and aggravating inflation.
 ''The Fed is saying if you don't want those mortgages, then give them to us,'' said Peter D. Schiff, president of Euro Pacific Capital, an investment firm in Darien, Conn. ''The Fed thinks that inflation is the way to solve our problems, but all this does is create bigger problems.''
 Senior Fed officials said on Tuesday that the other concerns pale compared with the need to stabilize credit markets -- particularly markets for mortgages -- that have become increasingly trapped in a self-perpetuating downward spiral. 
 That spiral, which began last summer when defaults on subprime mortgages began to soar, has led to falling prices for almost all kinds of debt securities. The falling prices have forced selling by major institutional investors and lenders, partly to make up for other losses, and has spread to a much broader array of seemingly safe securities.
 In its move on Tuesday, the central bank said that it would lend up to $200 billion in Treasury securities to a select list of top investment banks, known as primary dealers, that regularly trade with the Federal Reserve in its open-market operations.
 The new twist is that the investment banks will be allowed to pledge as collateral a wide variety of securities that include hard-to-sell, privately issued mortgage-backed securities.
 Fed officials, in a conference call with reporters on Tuesday, said that they were minimizing risk by accepting only securities that still had the highest triple-A ratings and that they would impose a ''haircut,'' or discount, on mortgage bonds that appear to carry additional risk. 
 Even so, the Fed is accepting securities that are inherently riskier than its usual mix of Treasury securities and government-issued bonds.
 To bolster its effort, Fed officials enlisted support from foreign central banks, including the European Central Bank, which said that it would lend up to $15 billion this month and would continue the program if needed. The Bank of England, the Bank of Canada and the Swiss National Bank will also participate. 
 Despite the global show of force, the reaction of bond investors was more subdued than what was seen in the stock market. Though the risk premiums, or spreads, on high-quality mortgage-backed securities edged down slightly, they were still much higher than normal.
 Rarely, if ever, has the Federal Reserve scrambled to make so much money available in so many different ways in such a short time. On top of offering low-cost loans to banks and Wall Street firms, the central bank has reduced its short-term interest rate five times since last September, to 3 percent from 5.25 percent. Policy makers are expected to cut the benchmark rate at least another half-point when they meet on March 18.
 One practical implication of the new lending program is that it may make the central bank more likely to lower the federal funds rate by half a percentage point rather than three-quarters of a point next Tuesday. Before the Fed's action, futures prices showed that investors were overwhelmingly betting on the deeper rate cut. But afterward, the odds declined to about 50-50. 
 In effect, the new program offers investment banks the same kind of access to comparatively cheap one-month loans the Fed has been offering to banks and savings institutions through its Term Auction Facility. 
 The main point of the effort on Tuesday was to prevent or at least slow a chain reaction of forced selling on Wall Street. In recent days, market prices for seemingly safe debt had fallen so much that major financial institutions were being forced to put up more capital to secure their debt.
 Two big institutions -- a unit of the Carlyle Group, a large private equity firm, and Thornburg Mortgage -- rattled investors and Fed officials last week by failing to satisfy margin calls, or demands for extra collateral, by creditors.
 Fed officials have been especially alarmed that the cascade of forced selling and falling prices has begun to infect mortgages guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored mortgage finance companies.
 James K. Paterson, head of global funding for JPMorgan Chase, said the Fed's willingness to make short-term loans could relieve some of the strain.
 ''The banks only have so much room and it is difficult for them to provide all the liquidity that the market wanted, given their balance sheet constraints,'' Mr. Paterson said. ''If you can stabilize the markets for a while, it is very constructive.''
 But other experts were skeptical. The total volume of mortgage-backed securities is about $6.1 trillion, with almost $2 trillion in riskier nonagency securities that are not insured by the federal government or by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac.
 ''We still believe today's action is not nearly a large enough step to make a big difference,'' wrote David Rosenberg, chief United States economist at Merrill Lynch. ''As with all the Fed's steps to date, this move injects a bit more liquidity into the system, but does not cure the overall credit crunch or credit problems.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: DOW INDUSTRIALS (Source: Bloomberg) (pg. A1)
REACHING INTO THE FED'S BAG OF TRICKS: Since the economy and the markets started sputtering last summer, the Federal Reserve has lowered its benchmark interest rate five times and organized several cash infusions to try to alleviate the credit squeeze. These moves have ignited brief rallies, but they have not halted the market's slide as worries about a recession have grown. (Sources: Bloomberg
 Federal Reserve) (pg. A20) Graph showing how the Fed plans to ease the credit crisis. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BONDS (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008



294 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Whoever Wins Taiwan Presidential Vote, Independence Movement Is Likely to Wane

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan 

 BODY:
No matter who wins Taiwan's fiercely contested presidential election on March 22, the fervent independence movement that has so agitated relations with mainland China in recent years seems destined to suffer a significant setback. 
 Both candidates, Ma Ying-jeou and Frank Hsieh, want closer ties with Beijing, differing only in how quickly and to what degree they would strengthen relations. By calling for closer economic cooperation with China and rejecting any notions of separatism, they are repudiating the tough nationalist policies of the departing president, Chen Shui-bian, whose confrontational stance has angered officials in Beijing and Washington and has stirred anxiety among many Taiwanese.
 ''Both sides will try to seek common ground and seek engagement across the straits,'' said Philip Yang, a political scientist at National Taiwan University who has advised the Ma campaign. ''If Ma is elected, the pace will be faster, and with bigger expectations.'' 
 Mr. Ma, a Harvard-educated lawyer, is favored in polls and by political commentators to beat Mr. Hsieh, who is from the Democratic Progressive Party, or D.P.P., of Mr. Chen and is campaigning in his shadow. 
 Mr. Ma's party, the Kuomintang, governed Taiwan for 51 years, often with an iron grip, before Mr. Chen was elected in 2000. The Kuomintang's revival this year is rooted in widespread disenchantment with Mr. Chen, whose party took power on a wave of optimism. 
 Mr. Chen initially tapped a vein of support among many Taiwanese for steps to promote Taiwan's separate identity. Those feelings ran especially deep among people whose families had lived in Taiwan for generations and did not have close political ties to mainland China. Many Taiwanese also hoped that Mr. Chen would end the corruption and authoritarianism associated with the Kuomintang.
 Instead, Mr. Chen has been mired in corruption scandals involving close relatives. Also, his tireless efforts to promote independence created constant tension with the mainland and led to disagreements with the United States, which has helped guarantee Taiwan's security but has discouraged unilateral steps by either side to change the island's political status.
 In the end, Mr. Chen alienated people in the broad center of the electorate who say they support the status quo and who depend on strengthening economic ties across the Taiwan Strait. As he finishes his second term, his popularity ratings are in the 20s.
 Despite his troubles, he has prepared a parting shot: a nonbinding referendum on March 22 that asks Taiwanese whether they want to apply for the United Nations under the name Taiwan rather than the island's formal name, the Republic of China. Taiwan left the United Nations in 1971 when the General Assembly recognized the Communists as China's legitimate government.
 Mr. Ma, in trying to establish himself as a centrist voice, has criticized the referendum and other government policies aimed at stoking nationalist sentiments. ''The D.P.P.'s drive toward de jure independence led only to Taiwan's internal decay and international isolation,'' Mr. Ma, 57, said at a recent news conference. ''It is therefore high time for both Taiwan and the mainland to revert to what I call the three noes: no talks on reunification during my term of office, no pursuit of de jure independence and no use of force by either side.''
 Many of the policies proposed by Mr. Ma and Mr. Hsieh, 61, are similar, though Mr. Ma appears more willing to engage directly with Beijing. Mr. Ma has said he will increase the number of charter flights across the straits and explore opening up commercial flights, all to spur the economy, which voters see as a major issue. He has also said he supports increasing tourism in Taiwan from the mainland and lifting many government limits on cross-straits investment.
 Mr. Ma said he would ensure that the defense budget was equal to at least 3 percent of Taiwan's gross domestic product. The military needs ''to be strong enough to deter an initial attack from the mainland,'' he said. 
 Since campaigning began in earnest, Mr. Ma has been dogged by issues of character, with Mr. Hsieh relentlessly questioning him on having received United States permanent residency. Critics of Mr. Hsieh, also a lawyer, say raising the character issue is a sign of his desperation, as his party tries to battle back from a painful defeat in legislative elections in January. The vote, in which the Kuomintang won almost three-quarters of 113 parliamentary seats, was generally seen as a referendum on Mr. Chen's leadership.
 ''We're operating against the tide,'' said Hsiao Bi-khim, a former legislator and a spokeswoman for Mr. Hsieh, who has declined to meet with foreign journalists. ''Our defeat in the parliamentary elections on the one hand has brought our party spirits to a low point, but has also brought on a sense of urgency.''
 To distance himself from Mr. Chen, Mr. Hsieh has called for maintaining the status quo, rather than pushing for independence, and has proposed allowing direct Chinese investment in Taiwan and lifting limits on Taiwanese investment in China. He has also said little about the United Nations referendum, although many party members continue to say it is important. 
 ''We see China as a giant with its hands around our neck, trying to suffocate us, trying to shut off our space on the international stage,'' he said. The referendum, she added, ''is an expression of the desire of the Taiwanese people for its space, to be part of the international community, to join international organizations. It's not about declaring independence. It's not about changing the legal status of Taiwan.''
 Nevertheless, American officials continue to warn Taiwan not to provoke China. In Beijing on Feb. 26, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said, ''this referendum is not going to help anyone, and, in fact, it shouldn't be held.'' 
 Shelley Rigger, a professor of political science at Davidson College in North Carolina, who wrote a book about the D.P.P., said that because of Mr. Chen's policies, ''U.S.-Taiwan relations are about as bad as they've ever been.''
 ''The U.S. is very eager for the new administration to take office because there's considerable concern in Washington that Chen Shui-bian could still destabilize matters even before inauguration,'' she added. In Mr. Chen's tenure the government carried out domestic policies centered on Taiwanese nationalism, such as promoting a Taiwanese dialect. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 18, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Wednesday about the coming presidential election in Taiwan misattributed a quotation about a referendum that will ask Taiwanese to choose the name under which the country will apply for membership in the United Nations. It was Hsiao Bi-khim, a former lawmaker and spokeswoman for Frank Hsieh, one of the candidates, who said, ''We see China as a giant with its hands around our neck, trying to suffocate us, trying to shut off our space on the international stage.'' It was not Mr. Hsieh himself who made the comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); REFERENDUMS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); CORRUPTION (63%); SCANDALS (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); LAWYERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (93%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%) TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008



295 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Drops China From List Of Top 10 Violators of Rights

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The State Department no longer considers China one of the world's worst human rights violators, according to its annual human rights report released Tuesday, a decision that immediately earned the ire of human rights groups. 
 In the annual report on more than 190 countries, the State Department did say that China's ''overall human rights record remained poor'' in 2007. China, the report said, tightened media and Internet curbs and increased controls on religious freedom in Tibet and the Xinjiang region. The report said China's abuses also included ''extrajudicial killings, torture and coerced confessions of prisoners, and the use of forced labor.''
 But the report dropped China from a list of 10 countries that it deemed the worst offenders: North Korea, Myanmar, Iran, Syria, Zimbabwe, Cuba, Belarus, Uzbekistan, Eritrea and Sudan.
 At a news conference, Jonathan D. Farrar, acting assistant secretary of state for democracy, human rights and labor, did not answer questions about why China was dropped from the list. ''I think the report highlights that generally the human rights record remains poor,'' he said. 
 When asked repeatedly why China was dropped from the list of worst abusers, and whether that had anything to do with the Beijing Olympics this summer, Mr. Farrar said: ''I would say China is listed under a section dealing with authoritarian countries undergoing economic reform where the democratic political reform has not kept pace. And that is a completely accurate assessment.''
 The press freedom group Reporters Without Borders denounced the decision. ''This decision was announced even as it was learned that some one hundred Tibetan monks have been arrested and Chinese authorities are refusing to release activist Hu Jia and dozens of other freedom of expression advocates,'' the organization said in a statement. ''U.S. authorities are depriving themselves of yet another effective way to pressure China, without having achieved any good-will gesture from Beijing.''
 Other critics said that the United States would do well to look closer to home when gauging human rights abuses. 
 Amnesty International USA complained that the Bush administration was giving lip service to human rights around the world, while ignoring abuses by allies of the United States.
 ''It is also shocking to read the horrific record of what amounts to torture and cruel treatment of individuals held by allies of the United States in the war on terror, knowing that the U.S. government has sent people to those countries for interrogation through its extraordinary renditions program,'' the executive director of Amnesty International USA, Larry Cox, said in a statement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (95%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); TORTURE (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (73%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (73%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (70%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (65%); RELIGION (56%); ARRESTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); TIBET (92%); BELARUS (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); SYRIA (79%); ERITREA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008



296 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Global-Warming Threat Is Seen for Coastal Areas

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN

 BODY:
A rise in sea levels and other changes fueled by global warming threaten roads, rail lines, ports, airports and other important infrastructure, and policy makers and planners should be acting now to avoid or mitigate their effects, according to new government reports. 
 While increased heat and ''intense precipitation events'' threaten these structures, the greatest and most immediate potential impact is coastal flooding, according to one of the reports, by an expert panel convened by the National Research Council, the research arm of the National Academy of Sciences. 
 Another study, a multiagency effort led by the Environmental Protection Agency, sounds a similar warning on infrastructure but adds that natural features like beaches, wetlands and fresh-water supplies are also threatened by encroaching saltwater. 
 The reports are not the first to point out that rising seas, inevitable in a warming world, are a major threat. In a report last September, the Miami-Dade County Climate Change Task Force noted that a two-foot rise by the year 2100, the prediction of the United Nation's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, ''would make life in South Florida very difficult for everyone.''
 But the new reports offer detailed assessments of vulnerability in the relatively near term. Both note that coastal areas are thickly populated, economically important and gaining people and investment by the day, even as scientific knowledge of the risks they face increases. Use of this knowledge by policy makers and planners is ''inadequate,'' the academy panel said. 
 ''It's time for the transportation people to put these things into their thought processes,'' Henry G. Schwartz Jr., the chairman of the Research Council panel, said in an interview. 
 The 218-page academy report was issued Tuesday, and is available at nationalacademies.org.
 Noting that 60,000 miles of coastal highways are already subject to periodic flooding, the academy panel called for policy makers to survey vulnerable areas -- ''roads, bridges, marine, air, pipelines, everything,'' Dr. Schwartz said -- and begin work now on plans to protect, reinforce, move or replace on safer ground. Those tasks will take years or decades and tens of billions of dollars, at least, he said. 
 ''We need to think about it now,'' said Dr. Schwartz, a member of the National Academy of Engineering. 
 The multiagency report, a draft assessment, is intended to help policy makers do just that. The 800-page draft was posted online last month for public review at climatescience.gov/Library/sap/sap4-1/public-review-draft. It focuses on the area from Montauk Point on Long Island to Cape Lookout, N.C. 
 Produced by a collaboration among agencies that included the United States Geological Survey, the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration and the Department of Transportation, the report offers three estimates for sea-level rise by 2100: about 16 inches a century, a rate it said had already been exceeded; about two feet, an estimate many scientists regard as optimistic; and up to three feet, which the report says would be catastrophic for wetlands and other coastal features but that is ''less than high estimates suggested by more recent publications.'' 
 The academy report cited similar estimates.
 The multiagency report cited the Port of Wilmington in Delaware as an example. The report says that if the sea level rises by two feet or even a bit less, 70 percent of port property will be affected. 
 Meanwhile, it says, such a rise in sea level would leave almost 2,200 miles of major roads and almost 900 miles of rail lines in Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina and the District of Columbia ''at risk for regular inundation.'' 
 The academy report made similar points, noting, for example, that airports in many large coastal cities are built in tidal areas, often on fill, making them ''particularly vulnerable.'' In the New York metropolitan area, Newark Liberty International Airport and La Guardia Airport are especially at risk, Dr. Schwartz said. 
 Some experts have suggested that additional fill could keep pace with rising water, just as many beaches are kept alive today with periodic infusions of sand pumped from offshore. But S. Jeffress Williams, a coastal expert at the geological survey and an author of the multiagency report, noted in an interview that necessary quantities of high-quality fill might not be available where they were needed. In that case, he said, policy makers would have to consider constructing immense systems of coastal armor or accept the need for ''strategic retreat.''
 As a first step, the academy report said, transportation officials must realize that climate patterns that prevailed in the past ''may no longer be a reliable guide for future plans.'' Instead, it said, they should incorporate climate change into their plans for capital improvements, maintenance schedules, emergency preparedness and so on.
 The panel also recommended changes in the National Flood Insurance Program, a federally subsidized program for coastal properties. The report said the maps the program used in setting rates did not reflect the influence of climate change. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); OCEANS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); BEACHES (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); WETLANDS (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); ENGINEERING (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (70%); INTERVIEWS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (57%); NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (57%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008



297 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths GERARD, KAREN

 BODY:
 GERARD--Karen, died March 10, 2008. Born on April 11, 1932. Karen grew up in Hewlett, Long Island. She attended the public high school and then Radcliffe College where she graduated magna cum laude in 1953. She then obtained a masters degree in economics from Columbia University in 1955. Her first job was as an economic researcher with The Bank of The Manhattan Company which soon after merged with Chase Bank. She became one of the first female vice presidents at Chase and the first who attained such a title while working 31/2 to 4 days a week while her children were infants. 
She, as an expert on New York City economics, advised the management of the Bank during the City's financial crisis in the 1970s. She then served as Deputy Mayor for Economic Development of New York City in 1981 and 1982 in the Koch Administration. In 1984, Harcourt Brace Jovanice published ''American Survivors, Cities and Other Scenes'', her book of essays on urban economics and social problems. In 1985, she joined Moran Stahl & Boyer an economic consulting firm and in 1989 she and two younger colleagues formed their own consulting firm, Kelly Legan & Gerard. She retired in 1993. During 1981 and 1982, she was the president of the Woman's Forum. She was a one time president and long time director of The Foundation for Child Development and for many years was associated with the Trickle Up organization which makes small grants to further entrepreneurship all over the world. She was an enthusiastic supporter of the Radcliffe Institute and the Schlesinger Library at Harvard. In her retirement, she was a docent at the New York Historical Society and for many years until her death she was a docent of the Morgan Library and Museum. She and her husband maintained a weekend house in Sherman, CT since 1966. She is survived by Egon, her husband for 53 years; her daughter Deborah and her husband Seth; her son Daniel and his wife Jani and four grandchildren, Jesse, Taylor, Cody and Lucy. She is also survived by a brother, Bruce Silberblatt. The date and time of a memorial will be announced. Instead of flowers, she has requested that people consider making a contribution to The Foundation for Child Development, 145 E. 32nd St, New York, NY 10016-6055. Funeral private. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHILDREN (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); HISTORY (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); LIBRARIES (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008



298 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Boeing, in Contract Protest, Cites Changes to Air Tanker

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Boeing filed a formal protest on Tuesday seeking to overturn the Air Force's award of a $35 billion contract to build aerial-refueling planes to a team that includes its European rival, Airbus. It said that the military had changed specifications to accommodate the bigger Airbus plane. 
 The protest will tap into a heated political debate about American jobs and military competitiveness and perhaps keep the issue prominent for months. 
 ''This competition was seriously flawed and resulted in the selection of the wrong airplane,'' Mark McGraw, head of Boeing's tanker program, said in a statement issued after the company filed its protest with the Government Accountability Office, the investigative arm of Congress.
 Michael R. Golden, an official in the G.A.O.'s contract protest office, said the filing by Boeing and subsequent filings expected from the Air Force and from Northrop Grumman, the lead contractor teamed with Airbus, would not be made public because they contained confidential cost data.
 The protest could delay deliveries of the refueling tankers, which are needed by the Air Force to begin replacing a nearly 50-year-old fleet of cold war-era planes. The agency has 100 days to review the protest, after which the contract could be overturned, altered or upheld.
 The value of the contract could grow to $100 billion and run for decades, making it one of the biggest recent military purchases.
 Analysts agree that the Air Force changed its criteria for the tanker. The question is whether it did so improperly.
 Loren B. Thompson, a military analyst at the Lexington Institute, said, ''It appears, over time, Northrop Grumman was able to change the Air Force's mind about what it wanted.'' 
 Early in the competition, Mr. Thompson said, it appeared that the Air Force wanted a tanker only, but then it embraced the notion of a more versatile plane that could haul large quantities of cargo and large numbers of soldiers and other personnel. 
 The winning plane is based on the Airbus A330 passenger jet, a bigger and newer plane than the Boeing 767, which was the basis for the losing tanker proposal.
 ''The Air Force followed a carefully structured process, designed to provide transparency, maintain integrity and promote fair competition,'' the service said in a statement. ''The Air Force provided all offerers with continuous feedback through discussions on the strengths and weaknesses of their proposals.''
 In its statement, Boeing called the changes ''frequent and often unstated.'' It also said its costs had been improperly evaluated.
 Both Boeing and Airbus have huge backlogs of commercial aircraft orders, so neither is in dire need of this contract. But it would help Boeing's military business, which has not been growing as fast as its commercial plane business. It would also help keep its 767 production line going past 2012; Boeing has just 51 orders for that plane in its backlog as of Jan. 31.
 For Airbus and its corporate parent, the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, or EADS, the tanker deal would give it a big foothold in United States military contracting. It plans to build the tankers in Alabama and to move assembly of its commercial cargo A330 to Alabama.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (79%); AIRCRAFT MFG (79%); COLD WAR (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); FACTORY ORDERS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (92%); AIRBUS SAS (92%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); NOC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (56%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (56%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008



299 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: Waiting for Mr. Spitzer

 BODY:
Gov. Eliot Spitzer has now twice violated his obligations to the people of New York. He violated their trust when, according to law enforcement officials, he patronized a prostitution ring. He compounded that violation Tuesday by hiding in his Fifth Avenue apartment and refusing to explain his actions or his future plans. 
 To put it bluntly, Mr. Spitzer must either resign immediately or explain why he deserves to continue in office. It is almost impossible for us to imagine how he can survive this scandal and provide the credible leadership that his state needs. 
 New York's government cannot afford to be paralyzed while Mr. Spitzer games his political prospects or, as many suspect, tries to work out a better legal deal with federal prosecutors. 
 Mr. Spitzer didn't even bother to explain his plans to Lt. Gov. David Paterson, who would step in if Mr. Spitzer does resign. Mr. Paterson told reporters that he had talked briefly with the governor on Monday. But, he said: ''No one has talked to me about his resignation, and no one has talked to me about a transition.''
 Mr. Paterson should be readying himself to take over this powerful job and keep the state running. 
 He will have to move quickly to reassure New Yorkers that he is in charge and fully committed to reforming Albany's broken political system. He could start by getting rid of most of those in Mr. Spitzer's inner circle and replacing them with the best and most reputable staff he can find. 
 There will be those who argue -- cynically -- that Mr. Spitzer's personal hypocrisy has discredited his calls for good government. They must be resisted. The need for reform now is just as pressing as it was before this sad and sordid spectacle began to unfold. 
 Mr. Paterson is a virtual unknown to many New Yorkers. He comes from Harlem's powerful political network and has 20 years of experience in the State Senate. He is legally blind. He also has a sharp sense of the people and politics around him. 
 Those skills and Mr. Paterson's easy eloquence should help him with the main and most immediate hurdle: passing next year's state's budget agreement that is due on midnight March 31. The budget fight is always fierce in Albany, but the worsening economy will make that even more extreme. What this means is that the affable Mr. Paterson will have to negotiate with -- and manage -- two of the strongest and wiliest political characters in New York: State Senator Joseph Bruno, the Senate majority leader, and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver. 
 That will take not only eloquence and empathy but a steel backbone and strong political advisers. 
 The Legislature also needs to move quickly on New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg's congestion pricing plan. Without Albany's O.K. by the end of March, the city and state could lose about $350 million in federal aid. Other issues that need to be quickly dealt with are Mr. Silver's proposal for an increase on taxes for those earning more than $1 million a year and property tax relief that is urgently needed outside New York City. 
 There are many other problems that will require a strong and credible governor's attention and backing, including rules on ethics and fair election redistricting and campaign finance reform. 
 All of this is on hold while Mr. Spitzer focuses on his personal plight. New York cannot wait any longer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SCANDALS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PROSTITUTION (72%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (72%); MAYORS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); BUDGETS (64%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%); DAVID PATERSON (79%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008



300 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Liberty, Equality, Free Admission: The French Take a Cue From the British

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
 WHEN it comes to culture, the French have never felt too inclined to learn from the British. Yet, with rare humility, the new government of President Nicolas Sarkozy is borrowing a leaf from British cultural populism by allowing free admission to 14 museums.
 True, the museums in question, in Paris and the provinces, represent a tiny corner of the French art world. And free admission is being tested for only six months. After the trial ends on June 30, the government may decide that it was all an expensive mistake and restore entrance fees.
 But Mr. Sarkozy, for one, was apparently impressed during the election campaign last year when he learned of the museumgoing boom in Britain: in the six years since the permanent collections of 17 major British museums were opened without charge, the number of visitors has increased more than 60 percent to around 40 million a year. 
 So, without consulting museum directors, Mr. Sarkozy ordered his new culture minister, Christine Albanel, to test free admission in certain museums. 
 The experiment started in early January, but some small museums are already reporting a 50 percent increase in visitors, although experts warn that the novelty may soon wear off. Still unclear is whether free admission is attracting people who rarely or never set foot in a museum. 
 ''What interests us,'' said Christine Andre, a Culture Ministry spokeswoman, ''is whether the cost of a ticket is the only reason some people don't go to a museum.''
 That said, the question of ''free art'' raises complex questions. Is it a democratic right like, say, education? Should free admission benefit only those who cannot afford an entrance ticket? Should it be complemented by other incentives to attract first-time visitors? And who should pay for it? 
 In Britain, only nine national museums were still charging entrance fees when its new policy became effective in late 2001. And those museums, notably the Victoria and Albert Museum, in London, have experienced a sharp rise in the number of visitors. Attendance at those that already offered free admission, like the British Museum and the National Gallery, has grown more modestly.
 The British government, persuaded that culture could help resolve some social problems, further hoped to woo more young people and minorities to museums. Here it can claim less success: rather than discovering legions of down-at-the-heel art lovers, free admission has encouraged middle-class museumgoers to return more often to their favorite galleries.
 Even so, the policy has found a hidden plus: increased crowds visiting noncharging permanent collections have meant more people buying $16 to $22 tickets for temporary exhibitions. This income, with an increased government subsidy worth some $80 million a year, has enabled British museums to break even. The American experience offers fewer lessons to France because ticketing policies vary widely: many museums charge admission, including the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston; a few are free, among them the National Gallery of Art in Washington and the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles; and some ask for a contribution, like the $20 ''recommended'' by the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.
 In Europe, though, high-minded theory has collided with economic reality. Most museums were founded in the 19th century around the principle of free admission as a way to educate the masses, but only museums in Britain and Denmark still adhere to this ideal. Elsewhere, the cost of managing old palaces and large collections has imposed itself. And sometimes, ending free admission can hurt. Ending Sweden's free program at its national museums led to an attendance drop of nearly 20 percent last year.
 For France, though, money is not the only variable. The Louvre, the Musee d'Orsay, the Museum of Modern Art at the Pompidou Center and the new Musee du Quai Branly charge entrance fees of $12 to $18, but they have no difficulty drawing crowds. With 8.3 million visitors last year, the Louvre's problem is often too many people.
 Further, since around two-thirds of the visitors to the major Paris museums are foreign tourists (compared with one-third to London's museums), free admission for all would represent a subsidy by French taxpayers of these visitors. Free admission for only the French, on the other hand, is disallowed by European Union rules.
 The preferred path around this has been to offer concessions, including free tickets for children and youths under 18, the unemployed, the handicapped and other mainly French categories. And the Musee d'Orsay, the Musee du Quai Branly and the Pompidou Center have also followed the Louvre's example of offering free admission to people age 18 to 25 one evening a week.
 Officials at the Quai Branly said they had more young visitors to its African, Asian, Oceanic and American Indian collections on Saturday evenings, while on Friday evenings the Louvre organizes special guided tours, workshops, debates and concerts for the under-26 set.
 The 14 museums at the heart of this experiment, however, pose a different problem: most are not well known. The three in Paris -- the Musee Guimet (devoted to the art of Asia, from India to Japan); the Musee de Cluny (medieval art); and the Musee des Arts et Metiers (which displays scientific instruments and technical innovations) -- have loyal followings, but others in the provinces are far smaller and receive fewer than 100,000 visitors each a year. So even doubling the attendance would not translate into the same numbers that Britain has reaped.
 It seems evident by now that free admission attracts additional visitors. The Paris city government, for instance, has had a steady increase in visitors since 2002, when it dropped entrance charges to its own museums, which include the Musee d'Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris and the Musee Carnavalet, focused on Paris history.
 Whether this approach draws a different audience is still unclear.
 An earlier populist measure, put in place a decade ago, required major French museums to offer free admission on the first Sunday of every month. But at the Louvre, where attendance on free Sundays is 75 percent higher than on other Sundays, the visitor profile is the same. The only difference, officials say, is overcrowding and loss of revenue.
 Unsurprisingly, then, leading French museums are opposed to across-the-board free admission. But will public approval of ''free art'' suffice to turn the British example into French policy? Or will the cost of doing so -- an annual loss of more than $250 million in ticket sales -- temper the government's crowd-pleasing instinct?
 The decision to perform this experiment was political, and any decision to abandon or expand it will also be political. What seems apparent is that what works for Britain does not necessarily suit France. For this reason, after this hurried first step, it may be a while before France goes any further.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ENTReE: The Musee de Cluny in Paris, above left, is 1 of 14 French museums offering free admission through June. The Cluny specializes in medieval art, center. At the Musee Guimet, right, also in Paris, the focus is on Asian art, arcing from India to Japan. C'EST BONNE On Friday nights, the permanent collections in the Louvre are free for people 18 to 25. A dance, above, one night. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ED ALCOCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PAINTING (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) FRANCE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008



301 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 Outspoken U.S. Admiral In Mideast to Retire Early
 Adm. William J. Fallon, the commander of American forces in the Middle East whose outspoken public statements on Iran and other issues had seemed to put him at odds with the Bush administration, is retiring early. A1 
 Iraq Violence Stays Steady 
 Newly declassified statistics on the frequency of insurgent attacks in Iraq suggest that after major security gains last fall in the wake of an American troop increase, the conflict has drifted into stalemate, with levels of violence remaining stubbornly constant from November 2007 through early 2008. A8 
 Turkey to Aid Kurds
 Turkey's government is planning a broad series of investments worth as much as $12 billion in the country's largely Kurdish southeast, in a new economic initiative intended to create jobs and draw young men away from militancy, according to the country's prime minister. A3 
 Gaza Rocket Pierces Calm
 Gazan militants fired a rocket at the Israeli coastal city of Ashkelon. Though there were no casualties, the action fractured a tenuous lull in Palestinian-Israeli fighting, which escalated sharply in late February and early this month. A6 
 NATIONALA12-24
 Clinton and Obama Clash Over Who Has the Lead
 With the fight for the Democratic presidential nomination likely to go on, Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton are now battling to define what it means to be winning.A1
 Senator Barack Obama won the Mississippi primary, building on his delegate lead over Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. A23 
 The Democratic contest was shaken up Geraldine A. Ferraro's remarks that Mr. Obama had received preferential treatment because he is black.A23
 Florida's Democratic Party officials are close to completing a draft plan for a mail-in primary, several people involved in the discussions said.A23
 Earmarks Ban Gains Ground
 A proposal to ban spending earmarked for home-state projects for one year gained momentum in Congress.A12
 SCIENCE/HEALTH
 Results of New S.T.D. Study
 The first national study of four common sexually transmitted diseases among young women has found that one in four are infected with at least one of the diseases, officials reported. A1
 NEW YORK/REGIONC13-14
 Fallout Continues In Spitzer Sex Scandal
 New York State government remained paralyzed as Gov. Eliot Spitzer, reeling from revelations that he had been a client of a prostitution ring, was engaged in a legal and family debate about whether to resign or, as his wife urged him, to stay on. According to people close to the governor, his political career and his marriage are in jeopardy. A1 
 Human rights groups, which praised Mr. Spitzer for a tough law that goes after patrons of prostitutes, were stunned to learn that he is accused of being one of the very men his law was designed to catch and punish. A1 
 BUSINESS DAYC1-12 
 Fed to Lend to Wall St.
 In an action that reassured investors, at least for a day, the Federal Reserve offered to lend up to $200 billion in Treasury securities to investment banks and let them post hard-to-sell mortgage-backed securities as collateral. A1 
 Shares had the biggest one-day gain in five years after the Federal Reserve said that it would try to ease the strain on the credit market. C1
 Today in Business C2 
 EDITORIALA26-27
 Editorials: Waiting for Mr. Spitzer; Serbia's choice; need to know; McCain misfires at grizzlies.
 Columns: Maureen Dowd.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EARLY RETIREMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (69%); JOB CREATION (68%); ILLEGAL PROSTITUTION (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (64%); MARRIAGE (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); PROSTITUTION (60%); SEX SCANDALS (60%); SCANDALS (60%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); ELIOT SPITZER (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); TURKEY (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008



302 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Eliot Spitzer's Dizzying Descent

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Spitzer, Linked to a Sex Ring as a Client, Gives an Apology'' (front page, March 11):
 Gov. Eliot Spitzer has been a hero of mine since his days taking on Wall Street. When I voted for him as governor of New York, I believed that we were electing a man of the utmost integrity. I believed that he was what New York needed. He has broken my heart.
 Phoebe Gilman 
 Putnam Valley, N.Y., March 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Ordinarily, I would rail against our bizarre American fixation that reserves its hottest outrage for sins of the flesh instead of sins of state. But my heart just isn't in it this time.
 Governor Spitzer, I believed in you. I voted for you because I thought you were different. This one hurts.
 David D. Turner
 New York, March 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I have to say I still admire Gov. Eliot Spitzer for his leadership in confronting corporate excesses on Wall Street as well as crime family bosses. I believe that such leadership has shifted, just a little, the laissez-faire approach to Wall Street that has prevailed for decades. 
 As far as sexual misdemeanors, these have been going on for centuries. For those who charge Governor Spitzer with hypocrisy, let me ask, Who casts the first stone? Deborah Appel Chomiw
 New York, March 11, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 Gov. Eliot Spitzer's disgrace is a prime opportunity for him, once a fearsome prosecutor, and for those who judge him, to develop compassion for the failings and weaknesses of all of us human beings. Lisa McCann
 Redding, Conn., March 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Mr. Spitzer's 'Private Matter' '' (editorial, March 11):
 Once again we see the iconic photograph of private and public shame, disgrace and betrayal: the ''ashen-faced'' wife stands stoically by and behind her husband. 
 This time it is the wife of Gov. Eliot Spitzer; earlier, we saw the wife of Gov. Jim McGreevy of New Jersey, the wife of President Bill Clinton, the wife of Senator Larry Craig. These sordid ''private'' matters become public humiliations for these wives. 
 Let us hope that the next time such a sex scandal occurs, the wife is empowered and courageous enough to say no to the photo-op. Let the husband stand alone -- like a man.
 Mary Ellen Byrne
 Philadelphia, March 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I believe that the comments by Prof. Alan M. Dershowitz of Harvard Law School about prostitution were irresponsible and insensitive.
 As a second-year student at Harvard Law School, I have been taught by my professors that making hyperbolic, unlikely and unsupported statements, such as Mr. Dershowitz's assertion that ''prostitutes aren't victims -- they're getting paid a thousand dollars an hour'' is irresponsible generally and particularly so when speaking with the press.
 Through my Harvard Law seminar on women's human rights, I have read empirical studies that document that murder, sexual assault and post-traumatic stress disorder rates among prostitutes are much higher than among the general female population, belying the accuracy of Mr. Dershowitz's avowal that prostitutes are not victims. 
 Finally, Mr. Dershowitz's admonishment that resources devoted to ending prostitution should be apportioned to fighting terrorism is insensitive because it ignores the continued economic, racial and sexual exploitation of women and children the world over and seeks to distract us by generating fear. 
 As such, Mr. Dershowitz's statements are a disservice to gender equality and the fight to end violence against women and children. Jessica Corsi
 Cambridge, Mass., March 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 This is why prostitution should be legalized. This should be a private matter between Eliot Spitzer and his wife. This should have no reflection on his capabilities as governor. How long is this country going to live in the Dark Ages? 
 Cliff Johnson
 Bartow, Fla., March 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Message to Gov. Eliot Spitzer: I wanted to thank you for giving me the opportunity to define prostitution for my 11-year-old son. Louise Hochberg
 Great Neck, N.Y., March 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Gov. Eliot Spitzer has reminded us, once again, that all moral crusades should begin in the mirror. 
 Malcolm MacDougall
 New York, March 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PROSTITUTION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (83%); SEX SCANDALS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); MISDEMEANORS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); LAW SCHOOLS (62%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); LARRY CRAIG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008



303 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Adding to Southern Support, Obama Wins Primary in Mississippi

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama won Mississippi's Democratic presidential primary on Tuesday, building his delegate lead over Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in the final contest before the nominating fight heads to Pennsylvania for a six-week showdown.
 Mr. Obama's victory was built on a wave of support among blacks, who made up half of those who turned out to vote, according to exit polls conducted by television networks and The Associated Press. The polls found that roughly 90 percent of black voters supported Mr. Obama, but only a third of white voters did.
 With 99 percent of precincts reporting across Mississippi, Mr. Obama led Mrs. Clinton 60 percent to 37 percent. 
 ''It's just another win in our column, and we are getting more delegates,'' Mr. Obama, of Illinois, said in declaring victory in an interview on CNN from Chicago, where he arrived Tuesday evening after spending the day in Mississippi and Pennsylvania. ''I am grateful to the people of Mississippi for the wonderful support. What we've tried to do is steadily make sure that in each state we are making the case about the need for change in this country.''
 Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, won the primary for his party, taking him closer to the number of delegates needed to clinch the nomination, according to a count by The New York Times.
 After a frenzied string of primaries and caucuses for more than two months, Mississippi was alone in holding its contest Tuesday, where 33 delegates were at stake. It was the last primary before a six-week interlude. The Pennsylvania primary on April 22 opens the final stage of the Democratic nominating fight, with eight states, Puerto Rico and Guam left to weigh in.
 Mississippi offered Mr. Obama an opportunity to regain his footing after losing the popular vote to Mrs. Clinton last week in three contests, Ohio, Texas and Rhode Island. Mr. Obama had been expected to win resoundingly in Mississippi, a state where 36 percent of the population is black, the highest percentage in the nation. He has enjoyed strong support among black voters and won all the other contests in the Deep South by large margins.
 While Mrs. Clinton, of New York, campaigned in Mississippi last week and former President Bill Clinton dropped in over the weekend, the Clinton campaign has mostly been looking ahead to Pennsylvania, with its 158 delegates at stake. 
 Mrs. Clinton was campaigning in Pennsylvania on Tuesday when Mr. Obama began the day with a final appeal for support in the Mississippi Delta. After having a scrambled-egg breakfast at Buck's Restaurant in Greenville, he shook hands with those who had gathered outside the strip mall and urged people to vote.
 ''We need some jobs!'' someone from the crowd called to Mr. Obama. 
 ''I promise when I'm president of the United States, I'll come back to the Delta,'' Mr. Obama said. ''You all keep me in your prayers, now.''
 It is unclear how much difference the late campaigning had. The early surveys of voters, conducted by Edison Media Research and Mitofsky International, showed that 6 of 10 Democratic primary voters made up their minds more than a month ago.
 In the final days of the primary race, Mrs. Clinton raised the idea that Democrats struggling to decide between the candidates could have it both ways, implying that Mr. Obama would make a suitable running mate. 
 Mr. Obama rejected that idea on Monday as he campaigned in Mississippi, telling voters, ''With all due respect, I've won twice as many states as Senator Clinton.''
 Still, according to preliminary exit polls, not all voters seemed eager to rule out the notion.
 As voters left the polls on Tuesday, 6 in 10 Obama supporters said that he should select Mrs. Clinton for vice president if he won the nominating fight. And 4 in 10 Clinton voters said she should choose Mr. Obama if he she won. 
 As in many other states, an overwhelming share of voters said they were looking for change and were worried about the economy. Mr. Obama won the support of voters who listed those as their chief concerns, according to the surveys of voters.
 Mississippi Democrats were twice as likely to say Mr. Obama inspired them about their future as opposed to Mrs. Clinton. Mr. Obama was more than twice as likely to be seen as honest.
 Anita Nichols, who came to see Mr. Obama on the eve of the primary at Mississippi University for Women in Columbus, said she was delighted that voters in her state had an opportunity to be heard in the Democratic presidential contest. Ms. Nichols said she hoped a convincing Mississippi victory would nudge him along in the protracted fight.
 ''I'm praying that he wins; I really am,'' Ms. Nichols said in an interview, an Obama button fastened to her lapel. ''This country is ready for change, but it's not just him. The president can only do so much. He's got to surround himself with qualified people, and the citizens have to work, too.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joseph Rupert, 8, did handstands Tuesday at a polling place in Meridian, Miss., while his mother, Jackie Rupert, voted. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIANNE TODD/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAUCUSES (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MERIDIAN, MS, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); GUAM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008



304 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Fed Steps In, And Stocks Take Off; Dow Up 416

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Stocks had their biggest one-day gain in five years Tuesday after the Federal Reserve announced that it would step up its lending to ease strain on the dysfunctional money market.
 But the reaction was far more muted in the troubled credit market, which the Fed was trying to help. Investors who specialize in mortgage securities and high-yield bonds appeared unconvinced that the measures would quickly or fully cure the ills plaguing the markets.
 ''For today, yes, it's better,'' said Max Bublitz, chief strategist at SCM Advisors, an investment firm in San Francisco. But ''I don't think you are going to take five years' worth of credit expansion and fix it in four, five months.'' 
 The Fed has steadily escalated its intervention in the financial markets because its usual policy tools -- short-term interest rates and operations in the money market -- have done little to restore the confidence and lending capacity of banks and investors. In its latest move, the central bank will offer to lend Treasury securities for 28 days to financial firms that pledge a range of other securities, including bonds backed by risky mortgages. 
 The news was a breath of fresh air for stocks, helping major indexes snap a three-session losing streak. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed up 47.28 points, or 3.7 percent, to 1,320.65. The Dow Jones industrial average finished up 416.66 points, or 3.6 percent, to 12,156.81. The Nasdaq was up nearly 4 percent. Major markets in Europe all rose at least 1 percent Tuesday, and Asian stocks joined in Wednesday morning, rising the most in a month in early trading.
 Financial firms in the S.& P. index were up 7.4 percent, their best day in about eight years. Washington Mutual, the mortgage lender, jumped 18 percent on speculation that big investors would put money into it.
 ''No doubt there's a relief,'' said James W. Paulsen, a strategist at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis. ''For us bulls that had been getting run over, it's nice to have a day like this.''
 The dollar gained back some of the ground it had been losing against currencies like the Japanese yen. 
 In the credit markets, there was less ebullience but still some improvement. The premium that investors demand to hold bonds issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-chartered mortgage buyers, fell noticeably though it was still about twice its level of a year ago. Debt issued by banks and other financial players were also trading at higher levels, specialists said.
 Treasuries, which had been bid up in recent weeks as investors sought safe havens, fell for the first time in three sessions. The yield on the 10-year note, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, rose to 3.594 percent, from 3.457 percent.
 But prices in other investments like loans continued to slide as companies and banks still had trouble selling debt, according to Standard & Poor's Leveraged Commentary and Data. The high-yield bond market was essentially flat, according to KDP Investment Advisor, a bond research firm.
 ''Credit market participants are rightfully cautious,'' said David Kovacs, an investment strategist at Turner Investment Partners in Berywn, Pa. ''There's no guarantee and no assurance that our credit woes are over. This is, however, an important first step.''
 The Fed's latest effort to address the credit problems will not directly address losses in the credit markets. It also will not on its own reduce the cost of borrowing for banks, consumers or businesses. Analysts say the Fed is allowing securities dealers to borrow against bonds that cannot be easily traded or that can only be sold at a loss. The Fed hopes to give financial firms flexibility and thus ease the flow of money. With Tuesday's changes, $1 trillion in securities that previously did not previously qualify as collateral will be eligible to be pledged to the central bank.
 ''The goal is to 'improve market function,' '' David Greenlaw, an economist at Morgan Stanley, said in a note to clients, quoting Fed officials who talked to dealers in a conference call. ''According to the Fed, there have been a number of recent signs pointing to some deterioration in the market's ability to function properly.''
 The Fed has tried to achieve the same goals in a number of ways since August. It has been running periodic auctions where it agrees to lend up to $30 billion to financial firms for 28 days. Last week, it said it would increase the size of those auctions to $100 billion. The Fed has also cut its short-term interbank lending rate to 3 percent, from 5.25 percent, and policy makers are expected to reduce it again next week. 
 The stock and credit markets have often reacted differently to the Fed's efforts, a signal to some specialists that the markets remain unnerved. Financial markets do not always move in step with each other but over longer periods they tend to converge. 
 ''If you look at the various indicators of risk, they are not in agreement'' today, said Joseph Mezrich, head of quantitative research at Nomura Securities in New York. ''That's important. We are probably not out of the woods till they all converge.''
 Following are the results of Tuesday's Treasury auction of four-week bills:

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) (pg. C10) Graph showing the Dow industrial average for yesterday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BONDS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); US DOLLAR (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); BOND ISSUES (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); DEBT NOTES (76%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (76%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (76%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (53%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (67%); CALIFORNIA, USA (57%) EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2008



305 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 508 words

 BODY:
TRAFFIC JAM Some technology experts worry that demand for Internet use could soon outpace network capacity. 
 PLANES GROUNDED Southwest Airlines took 38 planes out of service after finding a problem in its maintenance files. [C1.] 
 REVERSING COURSE Despite its earlier misgivings, Medicare said it would continue to cover a CT scanning procedure used to detect heart disease. [C1.]
 A CHALLENGE AT CHRYSLER James E. Press, Chrysler's new vice chairman, is trying to bring stability to a company known for boom and bust cycles. [C1.]
 TRADER QUESTIONED Authorities in Paris searched the offices of the French bank Societe Generale and took a second employee into custody. [C1.]
 GREEN MACHINES Two new eco-friendly, self-powered digital music players need neither batteries nor a power cord. State of the Art: David Pogue. [C1.]
 MORTGAGE PROPOSAL Representative Barney Frank is expected to offer a plan to help homeowners facing delinquent mortgages. [C2.]
 A RICH BONUS PLAN Toll Brothers, the builder of luxury homes, said shareholders approved a bonus plan that would reward the company's chief executive even in a poor housing climate. [C2.]
 MEAT RECALL HEARING The president of a slaughterhouse admitted to a Congressional panel that sick cows were introduced into the food supply. [C3.]
 LEADERSHIP VACUUM The governor of the Bank of Japan will step down Wednesday, but a political showdown is blocking the selection of his successor. [C3.]
 TAX EVASION SCANDAL Liechtenstein has issued an arrest warrant for a man suspected of selling confidential banking information to foreign authorities. [C3.]
 BRIDGING THE GAPTiVo, the maker of digital video recorders, announced an agreement with YouTube to deliver Web videos directly to televisions. [C3.]
 TRACKING ASSETS Failing to keep inventory of technology equipment can cause major headaches for companies. [C5.]
 BUY NOW OR LATER? Blu-ray offers amazing image and audio clarity, but it might be worth waiting for the next generation, which will offer more features at lower prices. Basics. [C6.]
 SKILLED WORKERS NEEDED Bill Gates, the founder of Microsoft, told Congress that America faces an acute shortage of scientists and engineers. [C7.]
 BRITISH GROWTH FORECAST Presenting his first budget to Parliament, the chancellor of Britain's exchequer, Alistair Darling, left, reduced his prediction for economic growth and proposed a rise in taxes and borrowing. [C8.]
 THE GOLDEN YEARS ING, the Dutch financial services company, is attempting to win over American consumers planning for retirement. Advertising. [C8.]
 DEAL MAKERS The vice chairman of IAC/InterActiveCorp testified about the affection John C. Malone and Barry Diller had for making deals. [C8.]
 TOUGH MARKET FOR RETAILERS Three clothing retailers, Talbots, American Eagle Outfitters and Men's Wearhouse, reported weak quarterly results. [C10.]
 COMBATING SMOG Overruling the unanimous advice of its scientific advisory council, the Environmental Protection Agency announced a modest tightening of the smog standard. [A12.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SMOG (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (88%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (88%); FILM (88%); TESTIMONY (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); AIRLINES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); HOUSING BUBBLE (75%); BLUE LASER DISC TECHNOLOGY (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); ARRESTS (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); TAX LAW (73%); HOMEOWNERS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (71%); APPROVALS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); TAX FRAUD (69%); RETAILERS (69%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); BUDGETS (69%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); FOOD RECALLS (66%); MEATS (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); ARREST WARRANTS (64%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (62%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (61%); AIR QUALITY (60%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (60%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (60%); SHAREHOLDERS (52%); CD & DVD DRIVES (50%)

COMPANY: IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (61%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (57%); BANK OF JAPAN (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); AMERICAN EAGLE OUTFITTERS INC (50%); MEN'S WEARHOUSE INC (50%)

TICKER: IACI (NASDAQ) (61%); LUV (NYSE) (58%); GLE (PAR) (57%); GLE (BIT) (57%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); AEO (NYSE) (50%); MW (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (61%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (61%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (61%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (50%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (50%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (50%); NAICS448150 CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (50%); SIC5699 MISC. APPAREL & ACCESSORY STORES (50%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (50%); SIC5611 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORY STORES (50%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (55%); JOHN MALONE (55%); BARRY DILLER (55%); BARNEY FRANK (52%); ALISTAIR DARLING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (57%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); LIECHTENSTEIN (74%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008



306 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Environmental Agency Tightens Smog Standards

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Environmental Protection Agency announced a modest tightening of the smog standard on Wednesday evening, overruling the unanimous advice of its scientific advisory council for a more protective standard.
 The administrator, Stephen L. Johnson, said that by law he was forbidden to consider costs in setting the standard, but urged Congress to change the law so future administrators could do just that. 
 The standard, stated in terms of average concentrations of ozone at ground level over an eight-hour period, is now 84 parts per billion. Mr. Johnson's decision, if it survives court review, would lower that to 75, although implementation could be decades away. Late last year a scientific advisory panel recommended 60 to 70 parts per billion. 
 ''I've made the most health-protective eight-hour ozone decision in the nation's history,'' said Mr. Johnson. The Clean Air Act requires periodic review, and the announcement Wednesday updates a standard from 1997. 
 But John M. Balbus, a physician and the chief health scientist at the Environmental Defense Fund, said, ''Clearly at some point you get to a level where additional benefits just aren't worth it, but I don't think we're there at 75.''
 ''The E.P.A.'s own risk estimates show that between 75 and 70, there will be hundreds more deaths and thousands more visits to emergency rooms, and hundreds of thousands of more lost school days,'' he said. 
 Regardless of which figure was chosen Wednesday, tens of millions of people live in counties that do not meet the current standard of 84. And the timetable for meeting the new one could be decades, depending on the severity of the problem, city by city.
 Places that violate the current standards include Southern and Central California, the Houston, Dallas and Atlanta areas, and a swath of counties from the Washington, D.C., area through central Massachusetts. 
 E.P.A. figures for 2004 to 2006 show there were 166 counties around the country that could have met a standard of 75 parts per billion but not 70. They include populous ones, like Miami-Dade in Florida, King County in Washington, and the Bronx in New York. 
 In all, 345 counties now violate the standard of 75 parts per billion. Bringing them into compliance would prevent 900 to 1,100 premature deaths a year, according to the agency, and result in 5,600 fewer hospital or emergency room visits. Reaching the standard will cost $8.8 billion a year, according to the agency, but the figure does not take account of health benefits.
 Counties that cannot meet the standard face the threat of limits on new highways and industries. Technically the administrator set a standard on ground-level ozone, which is the main ingredient of smog. Ozone is formed by the action of sunlight on two kinds of pollutants, volatile organic compounds, which come from gasoline and various industrial processes, and nitrogen oxides, which are produced in cars and power plants. Ground-level ozone is also a greenhouse gas. 
 While many groups and elected officials complained, not all the complaints were in the same direction. The Edison Electric Institute, the trade association of the investor-owned utilities, said in a statement that the precise relationship between ozone and human health was still the subject of scientific dispute. 
 ''E.P.A. is promising health benefits that people may never receive, even though they'll end up paying for them at the pump and through higher energy bills,'' said a statement from John Kinsman, the utility group's senior director for the environment. ''Hundreds of counties haven't been able to meet the current standard set a decade ago, and moving the goal posts again will inflict economic hardship on these areas without speeding air quality improvement.'' 
 But others said the Bush administration was setting its sights too low. 
 ''It will be close to a decade from now before the first ounce of pollution is reduced by any industry,'' said S. William Becker, executive director of the National Association of Clean Air Agencies, whose members are state and local officials. 
 ''That decade is an eternity in terms of technological advancement,'' Mr. Becker said. 
 The debate in coming days is likely to center on why Mr. Johnson chose a number outside the range recommended by his 23-member scientific advisory board. 
 Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California and head of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, told Mr. Johnson in a letter that the decision was similar to one in 2006 to overrule a recommended standard on fine particles. The decisions ''suggest that science is not the primary basis for your decisions,'' he wrote, asking for an explanation. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tens of millions of people live in counties that do not meet the federal requirements for air quality. Smog over Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (93%); SMOG (93%); AIR QUALITY (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS (73%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (73%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (69%); HISTORY (53%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (53%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (53%); MIAMI, FL, USA (52%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008



307 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: Video Road Hogs Stir Fear of Internet Traffic Jam

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Caution: Heavy Internet traffic ahead. Delays possible.
 For months there has been a rising chorus of alarm about the surging growth in the amount of data flying across the Internet. The threat, according to some industry groups, analysts and researchers, stems mainly from the increasing visual richness of online communications and entertainment -- video clips and movies, social networks and multiplayer games. 
 Moving images, far more than words or sounds, are hefty rivers of digital bits as they traverse the Internet's pipes and gateways, requiring, in industry parlance, more bandwidth. Last year, by one estimate, the video site YouTube, owned by Google, consumed as much bandwidth as the entire Internet did in 2000. 
 In a widely cited report published last November, a research firm projected that user demand for the Internet could outpace network capacity by 2011. The title of a debate scheduled next month at a technology conference in Boston sums up the angst: ''The End of the Internet?'' 
 But the Internet traffic surge represents more a looming challenge than an impending catastrophe. Even those most concerned are not predicting a lights-out Internet crash. An individual user, they say, would experience Internet clogging in the form of sluggish download speeds and frustration with data-heavy services that become much less useful or enjoyable. 
 ''The Internet doesn't collapse, but there would be a growing class of stuff you just can't do online,'' said Johna Till Johnson, president of Nemertes Research, which predicted the bandwidth squeeze by 2011, anticipating that demand will grow by 100 percent or more a year.
 Others are less worried -- at least in the short term. Andrew M. Odlyzko, a professor at the University of Minnesota, estimates that digital traffic on the global network is growing about 50 percent a year, in line with a recent analysis by Cisco Systems, the big network equipment maker. 
 That sounds like a daunting rate of growth. Yet the technology for handling Internet traffic is advancing at an impressive pace as well. The router computers for relaying data get faster, fiber optic transmission gets better and software for juggling data packets gets smarter. 
 ''The 50 percent growth is high. It's huge, but it basically corresponds to the improvements that technology is giving us,'' said Professor Odlyzko, a former AT&T Labs researcher. Demand is not likely to overwhelm the Internet, he said. 
 The question of the problem's severity is more than a technical one, since it will affect the shape and cost of the nation's policy on broadband infrastructure, a matter that is expected to attract political attention after a new administration takes over in Washington. 
 While experts debate the immediacy of the challenge, they agree that it points to a larger issue. In the Internet era, they say, high-speed networks are increasingly the economic and scientific petri dishes of innovation, spawning new businesses, markets and jobs. If American investment lags behind, they warn, the nation risks losing competitiveness to countries that are making the move to higher-speed Internet access a priority.
 ''The long-term issue is where innovation happens,'' Professor Odlyzko said. ''Where will the next Google, YouTube, eBay or Amazon come from?''
 The Internet, though a global network, is in many ways surprisingly local. It is a vast amalgam of smaller networks, all linked together. The worries about digital traffic congestion are not really about the Internet's main trunk lines, the equivalent of network superhighways. Instead, the problem is close to home -- the capacity of neighborhood switches, routers and pipes into a house. The cost of stringing high-speed optical fiber to a home, analysts estimate, can be $1,000 or more. 
 That is why Internet access speeds vary so much country by country. They depend on local patterns of corporate investment and government subsidy. Frederick J. Baker, a research fellow at Cisco, was attending a professional conference last month in Taiwan where Internet access is more than twice as fast and costs far less than his premium ''high speed'' service in California.
 ''When I mention my own service, people here shake their heads in disbelief,'' said Mr. Baker, who is a board member of the Internet Society, a nonprofit organization that helps guide Internet standards and policy.
 In the United States, the investment required to cope with rising Internet traffic will need to be made at several levels, not just cable and telecommunications carriers. Tim Pozar, an engineer and a co-owner of the Internet services company UnitedLayer in San Francisco, said a number of forces were combining: the surge in bandwidth-hungry video applications on Web sites, the need to handle traffic from more Internet-enabled devices like cellphones, and shortages of electrical power for data centers in places like San Francisco.
 ''We're running out of horsepower to accommodate the demand,'' said Mr. Pozar, whose company's data centers support Web sites for customers ranging from museums to social networks. ''And upgrades needed in data centers are going to be a lot more expensive than in the past, now that all the excess capacity left over after the dot-com bubble burst has been gobbled up.'' The pace of future demand is the big uncertainty surrounding the Internet traffic challenge, and how fast people will adopt emerging technologies is notoriously difficult to foresee. 
 In the aftermath of the bursting of the technology bubble in 2000, there was a glut of capacity -- so-called dark fiber, strung around the world and then left dormant. Now demand is catching up with that supply. In its prediction of more than 100 percent annual growth, Nemertes, a telecommunications research firm, assumes brisk use of new innovations like high-end videoconferencing, known as telepresence, which corporations are beginning to embrace as an alternative to costly, time-consuming travel.
 If this technology becomes a consumer product in the next few years, as some analysts predict, Internet traffic could spike even more sharply. 
 Slick video chats are something that William Bentley, a 13-year-old New Yorker, would like to see. He is fairly representative of the next generation of digital consumer: He has made and posted his own YouTube videos, subscribes to YouTube channels, enjoys multiplayer games like World of Warcraft and Unreal Tournament, and downloads music and videos.
 Asked what he would want next from the Internet, he replied, ''It would be nice to have everybody always right there -- just click and you could see them clearly and talk to them.'' 
 That sort of service is certainly going to require more bandwidth and more investment, with higher costs across the spectrum of the Internet ecosystem that includes cable and telecommunications carriers, Internet companies, media Web sites and even consumers. AT&T, for one, said last week that it would spend $1 billion this year -- double its 2006 expenditures -- to expand its overseas infrastructure.
 But even if investment lags behind, there will be no Internet blackout. Indeed, the Internet has survived predictions of collapse in the past, most notably by Robert M. Metcalfe, a networking pioneer and entrepreneur, who in a 1995 magazine column warned of a ''catastrophic collapse'' of the Internet in 1996. There were service problems, but nothing like Mr. Metcalfe predicted, and on stage at a conference in 1997 he ate his words. 
 ''The Internet has proven to be wonderfully resilient,'' said Mr. Metcalfe, who is now a venture capitalist. ''But the Internet is vulnerable today. It's not that it will collapse, but that opportunities will be lost.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: BUSIER AND BUSIER: Projections that the increasing amount of data on the Internet will cause user demand to overwhelm the available capacity are disputed by many experts. At the current rate of growth, global internet traffic could quadruple by 2011. (Source: Cisco Systems) (pg. C5) Graph showing global internet traffic could quadruple by 2011. GRAPH: GLOBAL CONSUMER INTERNET TRAFFIC (Source: Cisco Systems) (pg. A1) Graph showing video and data traffic growing, but possible showdown predicted by analysts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (92%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (92%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); BANDWIDTH (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); BROADBAND (72%); FIBER OPTICS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (62%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (90%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (90%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008



308 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: The Road to Dystopia

 BODY:
The search for a silver bullet to slay illegal immigration continues. Hard-liners are turning the country upside down looking for it. 
 They are looking in Washington, where Senate Republicans last week offered more than a dozen bills to further enshrine mass deportation as the national immigration strategy. It is a grab bag of enforcement measures that will be useful for tough-talking campaign commercials, but will not actually solve anything. 
 Republicans and some Democrats in the House are trying to force a vote on a bad bill called the SAVE Act, which among other things would force all workers, including citizens, to prove they have a right to earn a living -- a bad idea compounded by the notoriously bad state of federal government records.
 The error rate in just one database, the Social Security Administration's, is believed to be more than 4 percent, making it likely that many thousands of Americans would face unjust firings and discrimination, and waste a lot of time and effort trying to clear their names.
 The harsh-enforcement virus has spread far beyond the Capitol. In states like Oklahoma, laws have been enacted to force illegal immigrants further underground, off official registries and into anonymity, by denying them identification like driver's licenses. In a growing number of states and counties, politicians are offering up police officers to the federal government for immigration posses. From Prince William County, Va., to Maricopa County, Ariz., officers who pull people over for minor traffic infractions are checking immigration papers, too. 
 Many law-enforcement professionals say this is reckless and self-defeating, because it sends a deep, silencing chill into immigrant communities. Citizens and legal residents will inevitably be hassled for looking Latino. And it is expensive; Prince William's new law is expected to cost $26 million over five years, plus a few million more to outfit police cars with cameras, as a hedge against lawsuits.
 Maybe some people do not mind that immigration zealotry is sending the country down a path of far greater intrusion into citizens' lives, into a world of ingrained suspicion, routine discrimination and economic disruption. Is that what we want -- to make the immigration system tougher without fixing it? To make illegal immigrants suffer without any hope of ever becoming legal, because that is amnesty? 
 Could it be that tightening the screws relentlessly on illegal immigrants, even if some citizens suffer in the process, is all for the greater good?
 Which is -- what exactly? To drive a large cohort of workers out of a sputtering economy? To take more people off the books? To prop up the under-the-table businesses that inevitably evade such crackdowns? To worsen wages and working conditions for all Americans, since nobody works more cheaply and takes more abuse than a terrified, desperate immigrant? 
 This is a country that runs on routine amnesties. Where would the courts be without plea bargains, or state budgets without periodic tax forgiveness? Are illegal immigrants the one class of undesirables for whom common sense, proportionality, discernment, good judgment and compassion are unthinkable?
 It is frightening to think that this country's answer could be an emphatic yes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); DISCRIMINATION (88%); LITIGATION (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); AMNESTY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); DEPORTATION (73%); DRIVERS LICENSES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008



309 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Fast-Lane Governors Prone to Speeding Wrecks

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail:peappl@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The governor was a young man in a hurry, a rocket of energy, chutzpah and ambition who surprised almost no one by going so far so fast. A lot of people thought he had the potential to go further still.
 People saw the potential, it seemed, almost from the womb. His second-grade classmates said they were sure he would run for governor some day. The relentless resume-building began early: the fancy degrees, the precocious climb up the political ladder until he was elected governor at age 44. He arrived with boundless enthusiasm and artful positioning, a nonideological, get-things-done education-oriented Democrat who elicited talk, however fanciful and premature, of a possible run for president some day. 
 And then, boom, it was all over. Public scandal, the ritual press conference with the humiliated spouse and a final attempt at spin that left many with a sour taste on top of the sour taste, as if this were a story about something other than political disgrace.
 ''My truth is that I am a gay American,'' that governor, James E. McGreevey, said when he announced he would resign as New Jersey's chief executive in August 2004. Since then, there have been efforts -- some messy, some earnest -- to built a new life, and move on.
 John G. Rowland was a young man in a hurry, too, a rocket of energy, chutzpah and ambition who surprised almost no one by going so far so fast. A lot of people thought he had the potential to go further still.
 Mr. McGreevey wasn't elected mayor of Woodbridge, then the state's fifth largest municipality until he was 34. Mr. Rowland was elected to the Connecticut House at age 23. Four years later, in 1984, he was elected to Congress from Connecticut's Fifth District; he became governor a decade later, at 37. He was the youngest person elected governor in the state's history, a hot enough property that he was considered a possible running mate for George W. Bush in 2000.
 If Mr. McGreevey struck many as something of a cipher, running, always running, on a generic fuel of pure ambition, Mr. Rowland seemed a more familiar political creature. He was a breezy, jokey, former fraternity president at Villanova University, who brought a frat boy's casual charm and gift for quick banter and easy relationships to his job.
 Some were charmed. Some found him arrogant and superficial, but Mr. Rowland remained a phenom, re-elected twice. He was seven months away from becoming the longest-tenured governor since Connecticut adopted its Constitution in 1818, until, boom, it was all over in June 2004. The issue was a federal corruption investigation, not a gay extramarital affair. 
 It was drawn out, with impeachment looming, not sudden. But in the end there was the same scene of the governor, wife by his side, giving a terse resignation speech not exactly dripping with contrition. Later there was prison and now, to the dismay of critics, a job as economic-development chief in Waterbury, where his career began.
 And this week's news? Young man in a hurry? Rocket of energy, chutzpah and ambition? Lots of potential to go further still? Check. Check. Check plus. 
 Our memories are awfully short and New York is the biggest stage, hence the shocked, shocked reactions to Eliot Spitzer's titanic fall this week. But the truly astonishing thing is not that one alpha governor with so much potential blew up before our eyes. It is that in our backyard all three did in a period of less than four years. Other than politics as usual in Louisiana, it's hard to think of anything quite like it.
 There are lots of roads to political hell, but it's hard not to see common threads in at least these three pathways: pride, arrogance, hubris -- as if raising all that money, the whole amped-up intensity of the political process, has created people who are convinced they are bulletproof until, boom, it's all over.
 Alternately celebrating and despising politicians is an old American pastime. Russell Baker, the great columnist for The New York Times, long ago offered an appreciation for them. ''I'm a terrible softie on most politicians,'' he said. ''They're among the few people in American who still work, live by their wits, have no job security, endure brutal hours, and show great ingenuity even when they're thieves. They're the last people in America who go over Niagara Falls in a barrel -- they take risks.''
 All still true, but you look at the wreckage around us and you don't see lovable rogues in a pickle barrel. You see a pumped-up game that can be played only by alphas, in which the road to political success and the road to political hell can look awfully similar.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEW JERSEY: James E. McGreevey declaring, ''I am a gay American,'' in his resignation speech in August 2004.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
CONNECTICUT: John G. Rowland stepped down as governor on June 21, 2004, following a federal corruption investigation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY POOL PHOTO BY BOB CHILD)
 NEW YORK: Gov. Eliot Spitzer resigning on Wednesday, two days after his visit to a high-priced prostitute was revealed.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); MAYORS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); SCANDALS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); CORRUPTION (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); HISTORY (50%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008



310 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Troops May Move to Seize Control of Basra's Port

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ

DATELINE: BASRA, Iraq 

 BODY:
Several senior Iraqi officials said on Wednesday that the government might soon deploy Iraqi Army troops to seize control of this city's decrepit but vital port from politically connected militias known more for corruption and inciting terrorism than for their skill in moving freight.
 The officials refused to disclose many details but appeared to suggest that this entire southern port city, whose streets have been increasingly torn by violence as the militias vie for power, would be affected. No specific timetable was given for the move. 
 ''There must be a very strong military presence in Basra to eradicate these militias,'' said Deputy Prime Minister Barham Salih, who led a delegation of government officials to a conference here to promote investment in the port.
 As Iraq's only major gateway to the Persian Gulf, the port is critical for the nation's economy but is beset by labor problems and is in serious need of dredging and modernization. 
 Mr. Salih declined to give particulars, but when asked if the central government's plan to seize control in Basra involved a troop buildup, he said, ''Definitely so.'' He also said Western troops would be involved, raising the possibility that the effort could parallel the American troop increase in Baghdad that has been credited in part with reducing violence there.
 But, Mr. Salih said, Iraqi troops would lead the effort in Basra.
 Iraq's national security adviser, Mowaffak al-Rubaie, was more direct, telling the conference that ''we will launch a campaign to rid us of the bad elements.'' He blamed the ascendance of the militias on what he called ''the weakness of the local government'' as local officials sat uncomfortably in the audience.
 Mr. Rubaie later said in an interview that the central government had effectively given the provincial governor, Muhammad al-Waeli, an ultimatum to combat the militias in the port and elsewhere in the city or lose the support of Baghdad.
 But Mr. Waeli suggested in an interview that Basra might not be ready for the reforms sought by the central government. ''Rubaie doesn't know exactly what is happening in the ports,'' Mr. Waeli said.
 Shiite militias controlled by Mr. Waeli's political party, Fadhila, are widely considered to be in control of the dock workers' union. The governor said, however, that the real problem was that the central government had ignored Basra. ''So we blame the central government for what has happened,'' Mr. Waeli said of problems at the port. 
 The main port, called Um Qasr, is about 30 miles south of the Basra city center and is connected to the Persian Gulf by a waterway littered with nearly 300 sunken navigation hazards, including 82 large ships, said Michael J. McCormick, the transportation attache at the United States Embassy in Baghdad, who was along on the trip.
 The port is divided into a northern and a southern section, both of them sprawling, Mr. McCormick said. 
 The northern part is ''a usable port, but it's not an efficient port,'' he said, with mostly small cranes typical of the 1960s, a militia-controlled union that will load and unload ships only eight hours a day -- rather than the 24 hours a day typical of modern ports -- and a general air of seediness.
 At first, large stacks of some 8,000 shipping containers on the docks seem to indicate that a brisk commerce is taking place at the north port. But Mr. McCormick pointed out that most of the containers were empty. Ships leave the containers, taking a heavy financial loss, because dock workers take too long to hoist the empty containers back onto the ships, he said.
 He added that the southern part was essentially derelict and would be opened to international investors in hopes that it could be built almost from scratch into a modern facility. With all those problems, he said, progress at Um Qasr would require physical work like dredging and clearing wrecks, security improvements and general economic development.
 And indeed, part of the rationale for the conference was to highlight $2.1 billion in long-term, low-interest loans that Japan has agreed to give Iraq for a series of reconstruction projects, many of them in the south, including $254 million for dredging and other rehabilitation work at the port. 
 Kansuke Nagaoka, minister-counselor at the Japanese Embassy, who was also along on the trip, said the national importance of the project was its greatest selling point. ''As many people have pointed out, Um Qasr is not only for Basra but for the entire country,'' Mr. Nagaoka said.
 But before any of that work is likely to have an impact, the entrenched powers on the docks must be subdued, Iraqi officials at the conference said. And that almost certainly means military action involving the Iraqi Ministry of Defense, often referred to here in shorthand as M.O.D.
 ''We have a plan that is already set by M.O.D. and the prime minister's office, and we're going to implement it in a scientific way,'' said Gen. Mohan Fahad al-Fraji, the top defense official here, and the one who would carry out the plan.
 The additional forces called for in that plan, General Fraji said, ''are not going to control the port itself, but they're going to provide security.''
 Mr. Rubaie suggested that the plan would be carried out with a vigor commensurate with the stubbornness that the militias have shown in holding their territory on the waterfront.
 ''Whoever gets in the way will be dealt with swiftly, decisively and with no mercy,'' Mr. Rubaie said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Iraqi sailors accompanied a government delegation to Um Qasr. Japan has agreed to $2.1 billion in reconstruction loans. Iraqi soldiers are expected to wrest control of Um Qasr and other parts of Basra's port from local militias in coming weeks. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOAO SILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); ARMIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (77%); HARBORS & PORTS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); TERRORISM (72%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) INDIAN OCEAN (92%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008



311 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Liechtenstein Seeks Man Suspected of Selling Information That Led to Tax Scandal

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
Liechtenstein has issued an international arrest warrant for a man suspected of selling stolen banking data to German authorities that formed the basis of a vast tax evasion scandal.
 In a notice posted on the police Web site Tuesday, the authorities in Liechtenstein said they were seeking Heinrich Kieber, a 42-year-old former bank employee, whom they suspect of acquiring confidential information on customers of a Liechtenstein bank and selling it to foreign authorities. 
 The announcement includes a photograph of a man identified by the police as Mr. Kieber. It shows a middle-age white man with a fringe of thinning hair, wearing glasses with blue frames. 
 The warrant, citing news media reports, said that Mr. Kieber might have been supplied with a new identity and travel documents by the German intelligence service. 
 Germany confirmed it had paid an informant more than 4 million euros ($6.2 million) for a CD-ROM with banking records.
 Liechtenstein has harshly protested Germany's tactics, and the arrest warrant may deepen the rift between the countries. 
 Officials of Liechtenstein, a postage-stamp Alpine principality, have defended its tradition of banking secrecy, while German officials complain that it has built a lucrative business offering wealthy Germans a way to avoid paying taxes at home.
 The investigation, which initially involved only Germans, has spread to include people from the United States, Britain, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, France, Italy, the Netherlands and Sweden.
 Mr. Kieber's whereabouts are not known, though he is thought to be living in Australia, according to newspaper reports. The German newsmagazine Focus reported last week that Mr. Kieber told the German intelligence service, the BND, that he worried that his life was in danger.
 The Liechtenstein police requested information on Mr. Kieber's whereabouts. Liechtenstein also said it would demand that he be extradited if he were arrested outside the principality.
 Officials in Liechtenstein say Mr. Kieber worked for a subsidiary of LGT, a bank owned by the principality's royal family. It specialized in creating foundations that allow foreigners to transfer assets to Liechtenstein without reporting capital gains to their own tax authorities.
 The CD-ROM purchased by Germany has information on 1,400 clients, 600 of whom are German, according to officials. More than 150 people have turned themselves in after the highly visible arrest last month of the chief executive of the German postal service, Klaus Zumwinkel.
 In the United States, the Internal Revenue Service is investigating more than 100 American taxpayers on suspicion that they may have used Liechtenstein as a tax haven. Last year, the I.R.S. said, an informant, whom it did not identify, approached the agency with information about clients of LGT.
 Liechtenstein is under pressure from many sides, notably the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, to make its banks more transparent so they are not used as tax havens.
 But its dispute with Germany has been the most rancorous, even spilling into the cultural realm. 
 Crown Prince Alois of Liechtenstein recently canceled a loan of art from his family's collection to a museum in Munich.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Heinrich Kieber is sought.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIECHTENSTEIN POLICE, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX FRAUD (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); ARREST WARRANTS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); EXTRADITION (73%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); HAIR LOSS (55%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

PERSON: KLAUS ZUMWINKEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (99%); LIECHTENSTEIN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); FRANCE (79%); CANADA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008



312 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Putting a Hard Number on Retirement

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
ING, the large Dutch financial services company known for its quirky orange logos and latte-dispensing banking cafes, has your number. 
 At least it thinks it does. The United States arm of ING is introducing a television and print campaign this week with the tag line ''Your Number,'' which refers to the amount of money that you will need to retire comfortably. 
 The ads show professional, well-dressed baby boomers going happily about their busy lives -- passing through airport security, crossing a Wall Street-type intersection, getting an ultrasound of a growing baby -- all while toting a bright orange number with a dollar sign, like a flute case. 
 Guitar music reminiscent of the soundtrack to the hit film ''Juno'' adds an upbeat note to the sunny hustle and bustle. In the ultrasound scene, the number increases rapidly, a humorous nod to the cost of raising children.
 Some of the orange numbers have five figures, and others have seven. The people carry their numbers everywhere, even to bed.
 In a world of blue-tinted bank logos, the ''Your Number'' campaign reflects ''ING's orange and optimistic approach to things,'' said Tricia Conahan, senior vice president for brand marketing at ING Americas. ''We're trying to make retirement less intimidating and more accessible to the average American.''
 Just about every major bank and investment company is bending over backward these days to attract retirement customers -- some with somber messages, others with idyllic scenes of old age. ING's campaign represents a major step into that segment of the American market. The effort to win over the hearts and wallets of American consumers planning for retirement is a ''strategic move for us,'' Ms. Conahan said.
 The campaign was created by BBDO in Atlanta, where ING's United States operations are based. BBDO is a division of the Omnicom Group. 
 ING Groep, a financial services powerhouse based in Amsterdam, entered the United States seven years ago with an Internet bank, ING Direct, that offered a no-frills savings account, called Orange, that paid a high interest rate. Upbeat, humorous ads supported the fledgling bank, and in 2006 ING introduced the tag line, ''Your future. Made easier.''
 The latest batch of ads will retain the bank's familiar promise to make things easier, as well as the trademark safety orange color and logo of a medieval lion. 
 The old ads, which cost an estimated $10 million and will be phased out, were created by Tribal DDB in New York, part of the DDB Worldwide unit of Omnicom. ''Your Number'' will probably turn into a more expensive campaign. ''We're investing significantly more than in previous years,'' Ms. Conahan said.
 ING plans to set up a Web site, www.INGyournumber.com, that lets consumers calculate the amount they are likely to need for retirement. The site will also steer people toward ING insurance products and third parties that sell other retirement products, like 401(k) plans, and link to the campaign's television spots.
 The campaign will appear on ABC, NBC and CBS, as well as CNBC, ESPN and Discovery, among other cable channels. A less extensive print campaign will run in publications like The Wall Street Journal, and some ads will run online.
 ''Financial services firms have tried a variety of approaches to capture those retirement dollars, from scare tactics to messages about enjoyment,'' said Bill Haynes, the president of BackBay Communications, a financial services marketing and public relations firm in Boston. (Neither Mr. Haynes nor BackBay has worked with ING.)
 ''Personally, as a younger baby boomer, I think messages that are informative, upbeat, and empower baby boomers to take the initiative, while offering guidance and support, are the most effective,'' he added.
 Jeff Upshaw, an executive vice president and chief strategy officer at BBDO in Atlanta, said that the idea of a concrete number, as opposed to abstractions like relaxation and fun, was relevant to consumers as they contemplated retirement.
 Still, the campaign takes a bit of a risk. Will baby boomers feel shackled to a bright orange number, dollar sign in front, that represents the often-stressful concept of how hard they must work to maintain their lifestyle in old age? When people watch an older couple tuck themselves into bed with the orange number between them, will they view it as a ball and chain between the sheets?
 Ms. Conahan said she thought not. The number, she said, ''was a friendly number, not an intimidating number, and one that can change.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In an ING campaign, bright orange numbers represent the money people need for retirement. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (76%); CHILDREN (76%); MUSIC (74%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (73%); BRANDING (73%); INTERNET BANKING (73%); PRINT ADVERTISING (72%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); AIRPORTS (55%); AVIATION SECURITY (55%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (54%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: ING GROEP NV (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (83%); ING BANK FSB (52%)

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (92%); INGA (AMS) (92%); ING (NYSE) (92%); BK (NYSE) (85%); OMC (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); NETHERLANDS (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008



313 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1591 words

HEADLINE: In Chicago, Tinted Green

BYLINE: By MIMI READ

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
 SEVENTEEN years ago, Frances Whitehead and James Elniski were married inside a florist's leaky old greenhouse, where the resident parrot seemed to mock their vows with what sounded like sardonic laughter. The location was, in a way, prophetic. The bride and groom couldn't have known it, but another sort of green house eventually would come to dominate their lives. 
 In mid-February, Ms. Whitehead, 54, and Mr. Elniski, 56, gave this reporter a tour of their new residence in the West Town neighborhood here, leading the way up a spiral staircase into a modest office. Sliding doors opened onto a wintry rooftop scene, where two silver corkscrews mounted on tall poles twirled lazily in eddies of wind. ''I think of them as the new Brancusis,'' said Ms. Whitehead, an artist with thick, tousled hair that brings to mind a shorn field in a crazy wind. 
 Though Ms. Whitehead and Mr. Elniski, who is also an artist, spent $40,000 last year to buy and install the wind turbines (wildly expensive retrofits and mishaps included), they estimate that they will probably save only about $500 annually in energy costs, making the payback period 80 years, a point almost certainly beyond the end of their lives. Still, there are other, more critical economies to consider, Ms. Whitehead said, like the carbon economy. ''We could have bought two new cars for the same money,'' she said, ''but we'd rather have these.''
 Much as the writer Robert Pirsig divined the tenets of Eastern philosophy in every prosaic bend in the road in his 1974 classic ''Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance,'' Ms. Whitehead and Mr. Elniski, faculty members at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago, have found a conceptual art project in their own effort to live sustainably, in a house that presents itself as so environmentally responsible that even the front facade is clad in emerald green glazed bricks as a visual pun.
 ''One of the things that artists do is make the invisible visible,'' Ms. Whitehead said. ''We're trying to come up with a picture of the future, and we think this is what it will look like. Not stylistically, but in terms of the complex systems that we will all undoubtedly use for the collection of water and the micro-generation of energy.'' 
 Ms. Whitehead and Mr. Elniski shy away from making absolute claims about the comprehensiveness of their house's energy-saving systems, and declined to say how much they spent. There is always more to be done, they noted, and ''between now and Thursday, something new could come out,'' Mr. Elniski ventured. But they believe they are living as sustainably as they reasonably can in a world where local commercial availability of such products is limited, and finding technicians to install and maintain systems is a challenge.
 ''We do not have black floors,'' which hold the sun's warmth better than light-colored floors, Ms. Whitehead said. ''We do not have this new thing called Trombe walls, which soak up heat and release it back into a room like solar space heaters. We do not have gray-water recycling. But we've done a lot, while always being careful to balance it with an aesthetic atmosphere that people would actually want to live in.'' 
 They see their house as a sculpture, though not in the visual, tactile way that a Frank Gehry building is sculptural. With its corrugated steel-and-zinc siding, its central glassed-in courtyard, its appealingly worn furniture and its spans of books, the house looks like it belongs to well-educated people with an interest in design. If it is art, it's in the experimental spirit of Marcel Duchamp, who moved everyday objects like a urinal and a bicycle wheel into galleries and dubbed them sculptures.
 ''We're like Duchamp in reverse, moving the objects out of the realm of art and back into function,'' Ms. Whitehead said. She admitted that adopting expensive green technologies that don't quite have the bugs worked out of them is ''not yet a recognizable genre.''
 But neither artist prizes formalism for its own sake. Ms. Whitehead, a self-described botany freak who is fascinated by technology, once made an artwork here, at the Lincoln Park Conservatory Great Garden, that transmitted information about the ecosystems in Lake Michigan by using 50,000 plants to form the colored patterns of pie charts, bar graphs and lake-shaped maps. 
 Mr. Elniski, who is also a clinical social worker, once collaborated with 200 residents of a low-income housing development in Sacramento to make an artwork called ''Cloud of Hope.'' Every person blew up a white balloon and initialed it. Then Mr. Elniski tied the balloons into a ''bulbous blob form'' that they hoisted in unison. 
 Before building their house, the couple owned and lived in a conventionally energy-squandering building in the same neighborhood -- actually a 10,000-square-foot complex of buildings that included their quarters and several rental units. But as Ms. Whitehead and Mr. Elniski became increasingly concerned about ecological issues, they decided to downsize.
 In 2004, they bought the unprepossessing structure that would become their home: a blighted, 3,000-square-foot brick warehouse sitting on a plot once contaminated by an underground gasoline storage tank. To transform it into a stylish Rubik's Cube of living and studio spaces, they hired William James, an architect and contractor with James & Kutyla Architecture.
 Halfway through the design phase, the couple began researching environmentally sustainable building practices online and came across what appeared to be an exhaustive list of green amenities. They decided they fervently wanted, as Ms. Whitehead put it, ''a complete set, a truly encyclopedic wonder cabinet of devices -- and that's when we really started to drive Bill crazy.''
 Mr. James, a 52-year-old Englishman whose firm's highest-profile project to date is the design for Chicago's Steppenwolf Theater (done when his firm was called James, Morris & Kutyla), said the house is one of the most complicated projects he has ever worked on.
 ''Coordinating all the systems was tremendously complex, partly because of the nature of the systems and partly because of the interfaces,'' he said. ''We were also working with a long, narrow existing building and retrofitting it. The clearances that we had to work with were minimal in some cases.''
 Most vexing was a geothermal system whose roots extend deep into the earth. The technology has been around for decades, but few people are qualified to install these systems. After the warehouse's disintegrating concrete slab was dismantled and before a new slab was poured, 14 carefully spaced wells had to be dug 70 feet deep. Geothermal and radiant heating pipes were then threaded 65 feet underground (where the temperature is a constant 55 degrees) and back up through a manifold underneath the slab to cool the house in summer and heat it in winter.
 Among a lot of other daunting and less daunting gear, there are photovoltaic and thermal panels on the roof. There is radiant heating in the floors, geothermal desuperheaters to preheat water, and rainwater collection cisterns. The couple also installed water-saving appliances like dual-flush toilets, a low-flow showerhead, an 18-inch dishwasher and an all-in-one washer-dryer.
 So as not to discard the fruit of energy consumed a century ago, Mr. James designed the house to reuse 25 percent of the original roof structure and 90 percent of the original brick building. From the house's honey-blond elm floors milled from diseased trees to its Kohler bathroom sinks that look like tranquil, floating sheets of paper (trucked from Kohler, Wis., 127 miles up the road), the couple say that the place was fashioned to shrink their carbon footprint now and in the future, although some of the house's imported hardware (like the Finnish-made Windside wind turbines) were carbon indulgences in terms of the energy required to transport them. 
 For all their efforts, Ms. Whitehead and Mr. Elniski say they are generating just 10 to 20 percent of their own energy. All their do-it-yourself systems are tied to the grid and always will be, because their ability to harvest sun, wind, water and underground coolness is limited by a small collection area.
 Mr. James considers the project environmentalism with integrity. ''Painfully so,'' he added. ''Most people would never opt for all of those systems because the payback on them just isn't there at this time.'' 
 ''You've got to be doing it for other reasons,'' he said. ''They've made a clear commitment to raise the flag and have a hand in educating others. But someday we'll probably all live this way. I believe the technology will develop and make it cost-effective.''
 In the meantime, Ms. Whitehead and Mr. Elniski aren't fretting over practicalities. Beyond the house's other duties, it will be a classroom. A contingent from the Chicago chapter of American Institute of Architects is scheduled to tour it next summer, and the couple is developing ways for their students, some of whom are majoring in architecture and design, to use it as a case study. To them, nothing about the endeavor seems senseless or even particularly zealous. 
 ''When people ask me why I have those wind turbines, I always wonder why they don't have them,'' Ms. Whitehead said. ''It's like when Thoreau was in jail for an act of civil disobedience and Emerson visited him. 'Henry,' Emerson said, 'Why are you in jail?' To which Thoreau replied, 'Ralph, why are you not in jail?' '' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EARTH AND WIND: Frances Whitehead and James Elniski's house was built using a number of green technologies.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE LITVIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F1)
 CARBON THRIFTY: The house Frances Whitehead and James Elniski built in Chicago has environmentally responsible technology like radiant heating in the floor, right, and a kitchen equipped with energy-efficient appliances, center right. The exterior, top right and left, is covered in corrugated steel-andzinc siding. Solar panels on the roof, bottom left, are tilted to the heavens, and trays of artificial soil are planted with sedum and other plants to soak up rainwater and keep it from flooding the city's storm drainage system. The interior is painted chartreuse, center right, and filled with appealingly worn furniture and spans of books, bottom right, that contrast with the high-tech architecture.(pg. F8)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE LITVIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); WIND ENERGY (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (76%); WRITERS (71%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (68%); PHILOSOPHY (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008



314 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; BEND JOURNAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Drawing Lots For Health Care

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: BEND, Ore. 

 BODY:
Last month, right after he had the heart attack and then the heart surgery and then started receiving the medical bills that so far have topped $200,000, Melvin Tsosies joined the 91,000 other residents of Oregon who had signed up for a lottery that provides health insurance to people who lack it.
 ''They said they're going to draw names, and if I'm on that list, then I'll get health care,'' said Mr. Tsosies, 58, a handyman here in booming Deschutes County. ''So I'm just waiting right now.'' 
 Despite the great hopes of people like Mr. Tsosies, only a few thousand of Oregon's 600,000 uninsured residents are likely to benefit from the lottery anytime soon. The program has only enough money to pay for about 24,000 people, and at least 17,000 slots are already filled. 
 ''Maybe we can hope that as time goes on,'' said Jim Edge, the state Medicaid director, ''there will be state money added back to this program and it can grow again.''
 The challenge of providing health care in Oregon, once a trailblazer in the field but now facing soaring numbers of uninsured, is vivid here on the eastern edge of the Cascade Range. About 19 percent of the 150,000 people in Deschutes County are uninsured, compared with about 16 percent statewide and nationally.
 The region has roared with development in recent years, driven by wealthy retirees and transplants from California who have turned old ranching outposts like Bend into stark counterpoints in comfort and struggle. 
 The area has been dependent on seasonal and service workers who do landscaping and construction, on single mothers who wait tables and on Hispanic immigrants who might come to work one farming season in a town like Madras, up the road, but stay after finding other jobs that often offer no health care benefits. A recent slowdown in construction work has made it even harder for some workers to pay for health care
 ''There's so much need that there's really no way you can meet it,'' said Chris Coon, the outreach manager for the Community Clinic of Bend and the two other clinics that make up the nonprofit Ochoco Health Systems. 
 ''Using a random process to decide who gets health care is a sign of profound desperation,'' Mr. Coon said of the lottery in an e-mail message after an interview in his office here.
 The lottery was born out of a consensus among state officials and advocacy groups that small steps can help. As part of the state's Medicaid program, known as the Oregon Health Plan, the lottery is intended for low-income adults who lack private insurance and do not qualify for Medicaid or Medicare. Although the plan once served more than 100,000 people, budget cuts in 2004 reduced the number to about 17,000.
 State officials now say they can expand the program to serve 24,000 residents. Because more than 130,000 of the 600,000 uninsured in the state meet the program's criteria on income, age and other factors, the question became how to choose fairly the few thousand new enrollees.
 ''We thought about other options, such as should we try to pick all of the sickest people or the kids or the people with cancer or heart disease,'' Mr. Edge said. ''But the Feds won't allow that, and there's just no way to guarantee the fairness of that. Why would cancer be more deserving than heart disease?''
 The state led a promotional effort that culminated with a one-month window, ending in late February, in which people who wanted to be considered for the program had to submit basic information. Of the more than 91,000 who have asked to enroll, about 3,000 initially will receive applications based on a computer selection. Those applications will then be reviewed for eligibility. Mr. Edge said more applications would be distributed over the coming months in batches of 3,000 until the program reached an average of 24,000 participants.
 Oregon once sought to serve a far larger population of those in need.
 It has been more than a decade since the innovative Oregon Health Plan became a forerunner of state health care reform as it pursued universal health coverage. Conceived on a restaurant napkin in the late 1980s, the program had by 1996 reduced the number of the uninsured to about 11 percent of all residents, down from more than 18 percent in 1992. But then, early in this decade, the state endured a wrenching recession.
 ''Oregon was way ahead of everyone else,'' said Charla DeHate, the interim executive director of Ochoco Health Systems. ''And then we went broke.''
 Late this year, a special state board plans to present an outline for how to put Oregon back on the path to universal health coverage as similar efforts in other states continue to meet political and financial obstacles. 
 Barney Speight, who is director of the board, was present when the rough outlines of the Oregon Health Plan were sketched out. Mr. Speight said that many of the dynamics present two decades ago were present today, including a slowing economy and declining state revenues. But he said the challenge was even greater now because health care costs were rising at a greater rate than they were then. 
 ''I think we still have to aspire to great goals,'' Mr. Speight said, ''but I think we have to temper that with a dose of reality.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Melvin Tsosies is among Oregonians who signed up for a health insurance lottery. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEAN GUERNSEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEART DISEASE (90%); LOTTERIES (90%); MEDICAID (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); MEDICARE (72%); SEASONAL WORKERS (68%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (60%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEND, OR, USA (88%) OREGON, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008



315 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths FLOWER, ROBERT E.

 BODY:
 FLOWER--Robert E., 70, of Harrison, former Peekskill Councilman and ladieswear manufacturing executive died Tuesday, March 11 of lung cancer. He was President and CEO of Bliss Manufacturing Corporation and Nan Flower Lingerie of NYC and Peekskill, NY. Mr. Flower was also a City Councilman in Peekskill for eight years during the Pataki and Jackson administrations. 
A graduate of the Wharton School of Economics at the University of Pennsylvania, Mr. Flower was a former Chairman of the Peekskill Industrial Development Agency and was awarded a Distinguished Service Award in 2007 for his 21 years of service to the Agency and the City of Peekskill. A former President of the Peekskill-Cortlandt Chamber of Commerce and of the Paramount Center for the Arts, Mr. Flower was sought after by many organizations for his business acumen and his generosity of spirit. He sat on the Board of Directors of the First Federal Savings and Loan and was given the NYS Mental Health Award for giving employment to the mentally disabled. Over the years, Mr. Flower employed a thousand people from the Hudson Valley region in his Peekskill factory and in other locations in Puerto Rico, Georgia, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. A staunch opponent of NAFTA, in a NY Times article about the Act before it came into existence, Mr. Flower predicted it would be the end of clothing manufacturing in the United States. A prediction, unfortunately, fulfilled. A veteran who was a Captain in the U.S. Army, Mr. Flower is survived by his wife of 18 years, Claire Palermo Flower, his children Bruce of Wappingers Falls, Michele of Port Chester, his granddaughter Brianna, as well as his sisters, Frances Gochman of Lake Worth, Florida and Nancy Dvorkin of Boca Raton, Florida. Funeral services will be held Friday, at 10am at First Hebrew Congregation in Peekskill. Donations may be made to the Rotary Club of Peekskill-College Scholarship Fund, P.O. Box 344, Peekskill, NY 10566. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); CALENDARS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (74%); LUNG CANCER (73%); CANCER (73%); APPAREL MFG (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (70%); ARMIES (67%); MENTAL HEALTH (67%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%); DISABLED PERSONS (52%)

COMPANY: FIRST FEDERAL SAVINGS & LOAN ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); PUERTO RICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008



316 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: The Global Rose as Social Tool

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
NAIVASHA, Kenya The view persists that a rose is a rose is a rose. But that's so 20th century! In this new era a rose is a global product vested with the power to bring social and environmental change.
 I am not asking you to remove the romance from a rose, for that would be asking too much, but as you pick out blooms for your beloved at the supermarket, try resetting your rose associations in order to see the world as it is. 
 From here in Kenya's Rift Valley, Longonot Horticulture exports 90,000 rose stems a day. Its rose bushes come in red, yellow, orange, white, pink and cerise. Whatever color bunch a London or Copenhagen supermarket needs, it will provide pronto.
 Flower production has grown rapidly. Longonot started with just 10 acres of roses in 2002; it now farms 60 acres. ''The conditions are right,'' Harry Milbank, the general manager, told me. ''You've got many hours of sunlight and high altitude coolness. If it's too hot, the rose bolts. It puts out a flower with a small head.''
 Nobody loves a bolting rose, of course. Long stems and large heads are prized. As with good wine, too much heat is the enemy of refinement.
 Milbank, from a white Zimbabwean farming family targeted by the peevish tyrant Robert Mugabe, ushered me into a greenhouse of 60,000 bushes. He explained how the planting is done at a slight slope so that water is recuperated and the need to cut when a bud is neither too tight nor too open.
 ''If there's too much cerise,'' he said, ''We hold back and send yellow.''
 Now, walk yourselves back from those pretty yellow roses on a store shelf and what you find is this: Kenyan women in green uniforms, taking roses from a cold room, cutting them to a standard length of 20.5 inches, removing leaves and thorns, bunching them, and wrapping them (complete with plant food package).
 Within two days, the roses will be in Europe, probably Britain, where 70 percent of production goes. A small number is flown to the United States. By the fifth day, they will be in supermarkets. A four-day shelf life is allowed, and a 7-day guarantee is given buyers. So the roses must be good for just over two weeks.
 Most of the roses I saw were destined for the Sainsbury's supermarket chain in Britain, with a price tag of the equivalent of $10 already affixed. I asked Helen Buyaki, aged 27, one of 1,800 employees at the farm, what she earns: ''4,500 shillings a month.'' That's 70 bucks.
 Look at the global economy one way and Buyaki earns the equivalent of seven bunches of roses for a month's labor. That smacks of exploitation. Look at it another and she has a job she'd never have had until globalization came along.
 I say what's going on here is hopeful. It's a primer in how globalization can be good for humanity and not just rich humanity. As Milbank put it, ''More and more people want a socially and ethically acceptable rose.''
 What's that mean? It means Longonot has worked to acquire ''fair trade'' certification from the International Fair Trade Association, a group that insists producers look after workers in industries from flowers to coffee. Europeans and Americans are increasingly demanding ''fair trade'' products.
 So Buyaki, like others, gets free health care. Workers spraying chemicals have the right protective clothing. Use of chemicals is cut by the breeding of tiny predatory mites that feed on destructive flower-eating mites and by the production of natural compost.
 Being anti-globalization is dumb. A good way to improve globalization is to insist on fair trade certification. The harsh edges of capitalism were once rounded in Europe under socialism's rose banner. That's done. Now the challenge is global poverty.
 Africans don't need charity. They need the jobs globalization brings. They also need the developed world's social and environmental pressure.
 It makes sense to produce flowers here. The carbon footprint of a Kenyan rose is much smaller than that of a Dutch rose grown with artificial heating and lighting.
 But life has been hard recently. Kenya's many tribes have long flocked to the Rift Valley for economic opportunity. So when a disputed election sparked ethnic violence, the local toll was heavy.
 Longonot was shut down; Luo employees fled to the west and have not returned; a camp down the road houses about 1,300 refugee Luos in tents.
 This violence reflects many things, among them how critical African job-creation is. ''These clashes are really about poverty. If people have money, they care less who's ruling,'' Julius Njuguna, a manager, told me.
 Think again: roses, refugees and righting African wrongs are linked. A rose that's a social tool can smell as sweet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (75%); HORTICULTURE (75%); FAMILY FARMS (73%)

COMPANY: J SAINSBURY PLC (84%)

TICKER: SBRY (LSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (84%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) KENYA (90%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



317 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Rice Trip to Skip Argentina In Sign of a Growing Rift

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is scheduled to touch down in Brazil on Thursday for a two-day visit to South America, less than two weeks after Colombia's assassination of a top rebel leader enraged Ecuador's president and drew threats of military action by Venezuela's president, Hugo Chavez.
 Ms. Rice will visit Brazil and Chile, but notably absent from her itinerary is Argentina, where Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner in October became the first woman elected to be the country's president. The omission underscores Washington's disappointment with the new Kirchner government, which has continued to strengthen ties with Mr. Chavez while accusing the United States of political motives in an investigation into a suspected $800,000 secret campaign contribution from Venezuela to Mrs. Kirchner. 
 ''The United States is clearly snubbing Argentina,'' said Peter Hakim, the president of the Inter-American Dialogue in Washington. ''They are unhappy with Argentina in ways that continue with this new president.''
 Relations with Brazil, where President Bush visited last year, remain warm. The agenda for Ms. Rice's visit on Thursday includes meetings in Brasilia with President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva and Foreign Minister Celso Amorim. Ms. Rice and Mr. da Silva are expected to discuss progress on an initiative announced with Mr. Bush last year to develop ethanol industries. 
 Later Thursday, Ms. Rice is scheduled to fly to Salvador de Bahia for events tied to that city's designation as the center of Afro-Brazilian culture, American diplomats said. On Friday, she is to fly to Santiago to meet with Chile's president, Michelle Bachelet, and foreign minister, Alejandro Foxley.
 Ms. Rice is likely to address the flare-up over President Alvaro Uribe's decision to send Colombian forces into Ecuador to kill a senior rebel commander on March 1. The crisis ended Friday when Mr. Chavez, Mr. Uribe and Rafael Correa, Ecuador's president, shook hands.
 Last March, President Bush also avoided Argentina during his South American tour, visiting Brazil and Uruguay, Argentine supporters of Mr. Chavez, meanwhile, staged an anti-Bush rally in Buenos Aires.
 Relations between the United States and Argentina have been strained throughout Mr. Bush's presidency. Argentina still blames the American-controlled International Monetary Fund for its financial collapse in 2001. Argentina was forced to default on billions of dollars in debt to the I.M.F. and the Paris Club, which is composed mostly of European lenders. 
 Anti-American sentiment became a way for Nestor Kirchner, who took over as president in 2003, to play to leftist constituencies while turning around a country where more than half the population had slipped below the poverty line, said Daniel Kerner, an analyst at the Eurasia Group, a political risk advisory and consulting firm in New York.
 Anti-Bush sentiment erupted in November 2005 at a meeting of Latin American leaders that Mr. Bush attended in Mar del Plata, Argentina. In front of Mr. Bush, Mr. Kirchner criticized the neo-liberal policies of the 1990s that the United States sponsored and did little to stop anti-American protests. Mr. Bush left Argentina insulted by his treatment there.
 American officials were looking for change when Mrs. Kirchner, the wife of Mr. Kirchner, was elected last October. But just days after she was inaugurated in December, diplomatic tensions flared again when American prosecutors in Miami identified four Venezuelans and a Uruguayan in connection with a plot to cover up an $800,000 campaign contribution from Venezuela's government to Mrs. Kirchner after the money was discovered in a suitcase during a security check at a Buenos Aires airport.
 Mrs. Kirchner called the investigation ''garbage operations'' and asserted that it was intended to drive a wedge between the growing friendship between Argentina and Venezuela. State Department officials deny there was any political motivation.
 In retaliation, Mrs. Kirchner restricted diplomatic access for the American ambassador, Earl Anthony Wayne. Thomas A. Shannon Jr., assistant secretary for Western Hemisphere affairs, said in January that Argentina's reaction was ''regrettable and not positive.'' 
 On Wednesday night Mr. Shannon denied that Ms. Rice was snubbing Argentina by not visiting on this trip. ''There's only so much we can do with the days we have,'' he said.
 So far, two of the four men formally charged in the case have pleaded guilty to charges of conspiring to act as agents of a foreign country without notifying the attorney general of the United States. 
 The case has pushed Argentina and Venezuela even closer together. While Venezuela has continued to buy Argentine consumer products, it has also bought some $4 billion in Argentine bonds to help Argentina refinance its debt. During a visit by Mrs. Kirchner to Caracas last week Mr. Chavez pledged to supply Argentina with more than 10 million barrels of fuel oil and diesel a year. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Antiwar protesters raised red-painted hands during testimony by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice before a House committee on Wednesday. Ms. Rice is to visit South America on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); ASSASSINATION (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); POLITICS (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); POOR POPULATION (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); HUGO CHAVEZ (79%); CRISTINA FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (77%); NESTOR KIRCHNER (77%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (58%); MICHELLE BACHELET (57%); ALVARO URIBE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (72%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); BRAZIL (97%); ARGENTINA (96%); SOUTH AMERICA (94%); ECUADOR (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHILE (93%); COLOMBIA (93%); URUGUAY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008



318 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Bill to Propose Expanded U.S. Backing of Home Loans

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
An influential congressman is expected to offer a plan on Thursday that would provide federal backing to hundreds of thousands of home loans.
 The proposal would significantly expand an effort already under way to refinance onerous subprime mortgages with loans that are guaranteed by the Federal Housing Administration. The plan by the congressman, Barney Frank, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, would be more aggressive in addressing delinquent loans.
 As the financial markets and the economy have weakened, policy makers and industry officials have turned their attention to rising mortgage defaults. At the end of last year, 7.86 percent of all home loans were delinquent or in foreclosure, the highest that rate has been since 1979, the earliest year with data available. 
 Like other proposals floated by banks and regulators, Mr. Frank's plan would have mortgage companies write down the value of loans to their current market price before they are refinanced and given F.H.A. backing. Participation would be voluntary, however. 
 Mr. Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, offered a general outline of his plan at the American Bankers Association on Wednesday in Washington. He is expected to file the legislation on Thursday. 
 'The Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve are expected to announce as early as Thursday an effort to more closely monitor the risks banks take, according to Bloomberg News.
 Mr. Frank did not mention the prospect of the federal government's purchasing home loans outright, according to a report by the Stanford Group, a research firm. Mr. Frank and his staff have considered loan purchases in the past, but the Bush administration opposes such an arrangement. 
 In a speech last week, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. reiterated his opposition to a government bailout.
 It is unclear how much support Mr. Frank's bill will receive. Providing loans with the backing of the F.H.A., which serves as a mortgage insurer, could put the government at risk of significant losses if borrowers default on their new, lower debt.
 Several banks and policy makers have embraced some key ideas that underpin Mr. Frank's proposal. The Federal Reserve's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has said mortgage companies should write down the amount borrowers owe in some cases. The bank Credit Suisse has recommended a more activist role for the F.H.A., and the Office of Thrift Supervision has proposed creating a financial certificate that would allow investors to write down the value of loans in exchange for a share of the future increase in the value of the home.
 ''Much still depends on the text of the legislation and how it changes as it moves through the House and Senate,'' Jaret Seiberg, an analyst at the Stanford Group, wrote in a research note. ''Still, Frank's comments today are a positive as they suggest Democrats want to get a bill enacted rather than score political points by goading Republicans into killing a more radical proposal.''
 Others are pushing a different tack. 
 The National Community Reinvestment Coalition, a consumer advocacy group, will propose on Thursday that the government buy mortgages at a discount from investment trusts through an auction. After modifying the loans to lower balances and interest rates, the government would resell them to banks and investors, the group's president, John Taylor, said. The government could use the proceeds from the sales to buy more loans.
 ''This is not a bailout,'' Mr. Taylor said. ''This is a market-driven solution.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Barney Frank is seeking support for his plan to deal with delinquent home loans.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); NEW ISSUES (78%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (78%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (65%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (55%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (90%); BEN BERNANKE (57%); HENRY PAULSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008



319 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: New Hope for the Rich

 BODY:
Americans are getting poorer. In 2007, home equity fell below 50 percent for the first time on record since 1945. Total equity also fell for three straight quarters through last December. Adjusted for inflation, the annual income of the typical working household is still below its peak before the last recession, in 2001. That means the Bush-era expansion is on track to be the first since the government began keeping records in the 1960s in which household income fails to hit a new high. 
 And yet, in the Senate, Republicans are ready to do battle on behalf of America's wealthiest families.
 Starting in 2009, the estate tax will apply to Americans with property at death worth more than $7 million per couple, or $3.5 million for individuals -- a whopping 0.3 percent of people who die each year. As part of the 2009 budget resolution, Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Finance Committee, has proposed to keep the tax at those levels, with annual adjustments for inflation. The proposal is expected to pass, as early as Thursday. 
 Everyone knows that the Baucus proposal is better than the status quo: under current law, the estate tax will be eliminated in 2010 then revert in 2011 to the far higher levels that applied in 2001, before the Bush tax cuts. Republicans, however, think that Mr. Baucus's more-than-generous fix does not do enough to shield the wealthy. After it passes, Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona, is expected to propose further cutting the estate taxes of those still covered by the 2009 rules. 
 That would give the wealthiest Americans an additional $200 billion in tax cuts over 10 years, with most of that largess going to estates valued at more than $10 million per person, the top 0.1 percent. The government would have to borrow to make up for the $200 billion giveaway to rich heirs, worsening the deficit and adding about $100 billion in interest to the nation's tab. 
 The Kyl proposal needs a simple majority to pass. So if every Republican voted in favor, only one Democrat would have to join them for the proposal to pass. It is not a given that will happen. What is certain is that a yes vote, by whoever casts one, would be a triumph of let-them-eat-cake obliviousness. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ESTATE TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); FAMILY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (75%)

PERSON: MAX BAUCUS (76%); JON KYL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008



320 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE SPITZER SCANDAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: NEWS ANALYSIS; A Day That Shook the State, and Hinted at a Resolution to Come

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE and JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
On Day 442, everything changes. Again.
 When Gov. Eliot Spitzer took office 14 months ago, he seemed poised to upend the capital's powers that be, pledging that on ''Day 1, everything changes.'' But Mr. Spitzer's confrontational, sometimes bellicose manner antagonized his opponents and alienated his allies, and his sweeping electoral mandate dissipated month by month, a victim of the governor's mistakes and oversteps. 
 Now, as Lt. Gov. David A. Paterson prepares to succeed Mr. Spitzer, Republicans and Democrats alike are predicting an equally extensive change of atmosphere and, for better or worse, a return to comity between the governor and the Legislature. Mr. Paterson's temperament and style, his friends and fellow officials say, are as mild and subtle as Mr. Spitzer's are not.
 One indication that change is in the air came from Mr. Spitzer's fiercest antagonist, Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader. In a news conference on Wednesday, Mr. Bruno committed himself to working closely with Mr. Paterson, with whom he has enjoyed warm relations, to help the state move past the Spitzer scandal. 
 ''We are going to partner with the lieutenant governor when he becomes governor, and David has always been very open with me, very forthright,'' Mr. Bruno said. ''I look forward to a positive, productive relationship as soon as possible.''
 In politics, style and tone are crucial, but a major shift in either -- and, perhaps, a lengthy honeymoon with Legislative leaders -- may be the only sure outcome of Mr. Paterson's ascension to the governor's office on Monday, an event likely to be as transforming as any in New York political history. 
 Left in doubt are many of the largest issues facing state government. What policies will Mr. Paterson pursue, and will he adopt Mr. Spitzer's priorities as his own? How will his political philosophy differ from Mr. Spitzer's? And will he continue Mr. Spitzer's aggressive efforts to win control of the Republican-controlled State Senate, and thereby oust Mr. Bruno? 
 Elected to the largely ceremonial post of lieutenant governor, Mr. Paterson, unlike Mr. Spitzer, has no sure mandate of his own. His years as the minority leader of the State Senate left him with some legislative history, but in Albany, where the governor, the Assembly speaker, and Senate majority leader hold nearly unrestricted power, that post gave him relatively few opportunities to significantly shape legislation.
 ''He really didn't have a chance to develop an agenda and forcefully act on it, because if the majority leader or the speaker don't want it, it doesn't happen,'' said Douglas A. Muzzio, a professor at the Baruch College School of Public Affairs.
 Mr. Paterson is considered more liberal than Mr. Spitzer on some key issues, and that could create friction with the Republicans. He opposes the death penalty and strongly supports overhauling New York's Rockefeller-era drug laws, for example. Years ago he introduced a proposal to allow noncitizens to vote. On issues like abortion and embryonic stem cell research, Mr. Paterson is staunchly liberal, as is Mr. Spitzer.
 Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Democrat from Westchester, said Mr. Paterson was a more progressive Democrat than Mr. Spitzer, especially on economic and tax policy. ''The kind of things Eliot did, in terms of hundreds of nuisance taxes on the middle class but no taxes on the wealthy, I think that's the kind of thing that David will instinctively want to change,'' Mr. Brodsky said. ''Whether he can or not I don't know, but I think his instinct will be in that direction.''
 The fate of Mr. Spitzer's signature legislative initiatives, including proposals to reduce property taxes, revamp state campaign finance laws and require a commission to redraw legislative districts, is also unclear. Mr. Spitzer's avid and at times headlong pursuit of some of those goals is what first soured his relationship with Mr. Bruno.
 ''One of the things you've seen is that the separation of powers is very real, the Legislature has true power,'' said George E. Pataki, the former governor, on Wednesday. 
 Still, as minority leader in the Senate, Mr. Paterson drove toward overhauling Albany's notoriously secretive legislative process, a frequent target of good-government groups. In 2003, Mr. Paterson's caucus produced a reform proposal that in some respects anticipated Mr. Spitzer's own promises to change Albany and make government more open. 
 ''Do I believe David is serious about reform? I know he's serious about reform,'' said Senator Liz Krueger, a Democrat who has worked closely with Mr. Paterson on political reform issues. ''I think David's perspective on reform in Albany comes out of his experience as a 20-year legislator who saw for himself what worked and what didn't. And I believe what he would tell you is we were going in the wrong direction for too many of those years.''
 A member of a prominent Harlem political family, Mr. Paterson is the son of Basil A. Paterson, a former state senator and New York secretary of state. Many believe that the elder Mr. Paterson will play a key role in advising his son during the transition, as will Bill Lynch, a former deputy mayor of New York City and now a prominent lobbyist, and other members of Harlem's political establishment.
 Mr. Paterson has already plucked Luther A. Smith, who served as chief of staff to the former Manhattan borough president, C. Virginia Fields, from Mr. Lynch's firm to join him in Albany. Mr. Lynch said that he himself would remain an outside adviser to Mr. Paterson.
 One longtime Democratic legislative employee said it looked as if Mr. Paterson was building an Albany version of the mayoral administration of David N. Dinkins. On the whole, that person noted, those operatives and officials had relatively little experience in state government, a potential liability for the new governor.
 Some allies believe that Mr. Paterson should also jettison any of Mr. Spitzer's aides who were involved in efforts last summer to discredit Mr. Bruno over his use of state aircraft. Those efforts sparked several investigations, and P. David Soares, the Albany County district attorney, and officials with the Commission on Public Integrity said Mr. Spitzer's departure would not affect their inquiries.
 Meanwhile, Mr. Paterson will have to decide how hard he will work to change the balance of power in Albany, where Senate Republicans hold a bare majority in a state that is heading even more heavily Democratic.
 Mr. Spitzer styled himself an outsider and campaigned vigorously for Democratic Senate candidates, breaking a longstanding nonaggression pact whereby governors did not attempt to upend the Democratic majority in the Assembly or the Republican majority in the Senate. 
 Mr. Paterson is a consummate political insider and may be less inclined -- and under the circumstances, less able -- to offer such help. He will come into office after only a few days of transition time, and will have mere weeks to grapple with passing the state budget, for which he will require the cooperation of Mr. Bruno and Mr. Silver.
 Though Mr. Paterson is known for winning consensus, people who have worked with him warn that it is foolish to underestimate him. His genial demeanor, they say, masks finely honed political instincts and a talent for disarming opponents even as he bargains hard with them. Few in Albany forget how Mr. Paterson became minority leader in the Senate: by orchestrating a coup in 2002 against a fellow New York City Democrat, Senator Martin Connor.
 ''People go into meetings with him and think they are going to pick his pocket -- and walk out missing their own wallet,'' said one lobbyist in New York City. Mr. Silver, a Democrat who will tussle with the new governor on legislative and budget matters, offered a word of praise, mixed with a gentle warning. ''This is a matter of performance,'' he said on Tuesday. ''I think he is capable of being one of the finest governors New York has ever had.'' 
 Then he added: ''Ask that question in about a year.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In a State Assembly hallway, staff members watched Gov. Eliot Spitzer announce his resignation on Wednesday in Manhattan. Lt. Gov. David A. Paterson started forming his administration.(pg. B1)(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
On the floor of the State Senate on Wednesday, Majority Leader Joseph L. Bruno led a discussion of the Senate proposal for the state budget, which faces a deadline of April 1.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Posters for the Spitzer-Paterson campaign in 2006 in a Harlem window. At left, Lt. Gov. David A. Paterson, right, was visited by Thomas P. DiNapoli, the state comptroller.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM ROSKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (93%); DAVID PATERSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



321 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WILLEMSTAD JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Island's Treasure, the U.S. Dollar, Lures Venezuelans

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Sandra La Fuente P. contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WILLEMSTAD, Curacao 

 BODY:
Stroll down Columbusstraat. Enter the smoke-filled lobby of the San Marco Hotel and Casino. Proceed up a flight of stairs to the front desk. Dial Room 106. Bring a credit card issued in Venezuela. 
 In a quest to get their hands on American dollars, Venezuelans are flocking to this island in the Netherlands Antilles to take part in this elaborate back-room scheme and others like it to get around currency controls imposed by the government of President Hugo Chavez. 
 ''These Venezuelans come here to get their dollars, and we're happy to help them out,'' said Ronald Veenstra, 36, owner of the Supreme and Real, a bar opposite the San Marco Hotel, while mixing a mojito. ''I've never poured more drinks for any one group in my entire life.'' 
 For Venezuelans, the Curacao option for obtaining dollars emerged last year when the value of Venezuela's currency, the bolivar, fell sharply against the dollar as fears intensified over Mr. Chavez's economic policies, including the nationalization of oil and telephone companies.
 Faced with the highest inflation rate in Latin America, about 23 percent, and the dwindling value of the bolivar, Venezuela became an economic oddity in an age of ascendant currencies as varied as the Brazilian real and the Peruvian sol: a place where the dollar is still sought after. 
 That's where Curacao comes in. ''Venezuela has always been a natural market for Curacao,'' said Johannes Henriques, 63, a manager at the St. Michiel Bay Inn, reminiscing about past oil booms, when flush Venezuelans filled Willemstad's boutiques and hotels. ''Now the Venezuelans come to do their card thing, and it's an opportunity for them to get to know us again.'' 
 The ''card thing'' is an intricate scheme involving merchants, Socialist bureaucrats, Venezuelan travelers and middlemen. 
 Trying to slow capital flight, Venezuela limits its citizens to $5,000 in annual credit card purchases abroad. That is 10,750 bolivars, at the official exchange rate of 2.15 to the dollar. But at the prevailing black market rate of 4.50 to the dollar, the amount more than doubles to 22,500 bolivars. 
 Seizing on that gap, some Venezuelans began coming to Curacao's casinos last year and using their credit cards to buy chips. They played a few hands and cashed in the chips for dollars, which circulate here along with guilders, the Dutch currency. But the casinos soon prohibited them from buying chips with their cards because few actually used the chips to gamble. 
 Middlemen then moved in, organizing trips for Venezuelans and charging a 20 percent commission for cash advances at the office of a merchant, like the travel agency in Room 106 of the San Marco Hotel. The middleman and merchant divide the $1,000 commission, leaving the Venezuelan with $4,000 in cash. 
 The middlemen say they doctor receipts, with a wink and a nod from local banks that process the transactions. These intermediaries say the receipts, often for electronic items, offer the travelers alibis in case they are audited in Venezuela by bureaucrats ideologically loyal to Mr. Chavez. If problems arise, the middlemen say, a small so-called commission to some of the bureaucrats can smooth things over.
 Some Venezuelans hold the dollars as a hedge against economic uncertainty, while others exchange them back in Venezuela for bolivars at the black-market rate, for a profit. The merchants get hefty commissions for swiping credit cards.
 And in an illustration of where some of Venezuela's oil wealth is going, some middlemen have accumulated fortunes. ''I made $300,000 in December alone,'' said Roberto, 31, a middleman who would not give his full name out of concern of being identified as a profiteer. 
 Rosann Jansen, a researcher at the Curacao Tourist Board, said Venezuelan visitors roughly tripled in 2007 to 60,000 from a year earlier as airlines added flights from Caracas and smaller Venezuelan cities like Maracaibo, Valencia and Las Piedras. With flights booked months in advance, that number could rise to 100,000 this year. 
 ''I'm doing this to have some savings when I'm older,'' said Yesenia Castro, 53, a Venezuelan office worker who came here for dollars twice in less than a year. 
 Once the flights arrive, the middlemen's employees swarm the airport lobby trying to steer the Venezuelans to their bosses. As competition increases, commissions on these deals have dropped recently to around 15 percent, travelers say. 
 Officials in Caracas have been trying to end the practice after Venezuelan credit card purchases abroad surged 312 percent in 2007 to $5.1 billion. They made it illegal to publish the black market currency rate and renamed the currency the bolivar fuerte, or strong bolivar. 
 They have audited thousands of travelers while requiring others to stay abroad seven days to tap their quota of credit card dollars. But the new rules have simply bred more creative ways to bypass them. 
 Some middlemen simply foot the bill for modest two-day trips, then keep the exchange profits for themselves, effectively duping Venezuelans out of their quotas while plying them with liquor at beaches here, usually occupied by Dutch tourists focusing on their paperbacks. 
 Little soul-searching about exploiting Venezuela's idiosyncrasies seems to have emerged in Curacao, which has long been finding ways to grow prosperous off its neighbor to the south. 
 So many shops in downtown Willemstad have signs saying ''We welcome Venezuelan cards'' that it is a surprise to find one that does not. The explanation, when it comes, is simple. ''We don't do it,'' said Manish Chandhani, 25, a salesman in Baba's, an electronics store. ''My boss does not like to earn easy money.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Venezuelan tourists enjoy the waters of Mambo Beach in Curacao, but the real attraction for Venezuelans here is the opportunity to use their credit cards to bypass their home country's restrictions and obtain American money. The value of Venezuela's currency, the bolivar, has fallen sharply against the dollar. Venezuelan visitors roughly tripled in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOMAS MUNITA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Curacao has long found ways to prosper from Venezuela. Map of Willemstad in Curacao. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (76%); NATIONALIZATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); TRAVEL AGENTS (62%); INFLATION (52%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008



322 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Bush Signals Intent to Force Vote in Congress This Year on Colombian Trade Deal

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Bush administration signaled Wednesday that it would defy the wishes of Congressional Democrats and force a vote this year on a free trade agreement with Colombia, hinting that it would try to gain support for the pact by stoking fears of anti-American sentiment in the region.
 ''The Colombia agreement is pivotal to America's national security and economic interests right now, and it is too important to be held up by politics,'' President Bush told an audience of Hispanic business leaders here. ''There needs to be a vote on Colombia this year.'' 
 By itself, the Colombia pact would not have a major impact on trade, but it has become one of the administration's international economic priorities, along with other deals with Panama and South Korea. But all these accords have stalled amid skepticism in Congress and among many other Americans.
 In his talk to the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Bush cited recent disputes with President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, whom the United States and Colombia accuse of aiding insurgents and narcotics traffickers in Colombia. Passing the deal will support ''freedom and peace'' in the area, he said.
 The Colombia agreement was negotiated in 2006 but never formally submitted to Congress. Once it is submitted, Congress has 90 business days to vote it up or down. The administration says that it must submit the deal soon for a vote to take place this year.
 But Democrats in Congress say there are not enough votes to pass the pact, in part because of opposition by labor and environmental groups. Both Democratic presidential candidates, Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Barack Obama of Illinois, oppose the deal.
 The trade pact would open new markets for American farm goods, machinery, organic chemicals and plastics. Trade between the United States and Colombia came to $18 billion in 2007. The United States imports grains, cotton and soybeans from Colombia, much of it duty-free under temporary accords.
 Critics worry that the deal would lead to more American companies' transferring their manufacturing to Colombia and the loss of jobs at home. 
 The administration has flown dozens of lawmakers, including many Democrats, to Latin America in recent months and made some headway in gaining support. An effort has also been made to win over Democratic mayors and governors whose constituents might benefit from more exports to Latin America.
 But Democrats in Congress say that the administration should not try for a vote without first working out a package of aid to Americans thrown out of work by the influx of imports. Neither side rules out the possibility of such a ''trade adjustment assistance'' package in coming months, despite the partisan election-year atmosphere.
 The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, warned Mr. Bush on Wednesday not to submit the Colombia deal without a trade adjustment package or signs of further progress in cracking down on violence against labor organizers in Colombia. 
 ''The Colombia agreement is controversial on its merits,'' Ms. Pelosi said. ''Forcing the agreement on Congress, without the consent of the leadership, will only make it more so.''
 Administration officials say that if the Colombia deal is to be passed this year, they cannot afford to wait for a consensus before submitting it. They hope that actually submitting the deal and starting the 90-day clock will compel both sides to reach an agreement.
 ''We're telling the Democrats that we're still going to work with you, but if you back us up against the wall, we have no choice but to submit the agreement to Congress,'' said an administration official, speaking anonymously in order to discuss tactics candidly.
 Trade has become a hot issue in the presidential campaigns, with Senator John McCain of Arizona, the presumptive Republican nominee, attacking Senators Obama and Clinton for their skepticism about, and outright opposition to, current and future trade deals.
 Both Democrats have called for a renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada, approved in the 1990s with the support of President Clinton. Mr. Bush offered a jibe at the Democrats, warning that any such renegotiation would bring new demands on the United States that could shut down trade.
 Mr. Bush specifically criticized Senator Clinton, though not by name, for calling for a ''timeout'' on future trade accords. 
 ''You know, they toss out the word 'timeout' from trade,'' he said. ''It's got this kind of catchy little title to it.'' But he said a pause would lead to ''a timeout from growth, a timeout from jobs and a timeout from good results.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); POLITICS (76%); PLASTICS MARKETS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MAYORS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (66%); LAYOFFS (64%); ORGANIC CHEMICALS (62%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (62%); NATIONAL SECURITY (56%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (52%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US HISPANIC CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008



323 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: Unions Unveil McCain Attack

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
Even before he officially becomes the Republican nominee, Senator John McCain is facing a general election assault from organized labor. 
 On Tuesday, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. announced the start of a campaign attacking Senator McCain on economic issues, part of a $53.4 million grass-roots mobilization effort. 
 The anti-McCain effort will include leafleting at workplaces, knocking on doors, direct mail, phone banking and a Web site, mccainrevealed.org. Union activists also plan to confront Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, at his appearances in the coming months. 
 ''Our economy is in crisis after years of failed Bush administration policies that Senator McCain supports and has adopted as his own,'' Karen Ackerman, the labor federation's political director said in a statement. ''Senator McCain's record shows he's in lockstep with President Bush on economic issues.''
 The campaign will encompass 23 states, but the union, which has not endorsed a candidate in the Democratic primaries and caucuses, listed Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, all key battleground states, as its top priorities. 
 The Republican National Committee put out a statement calling on Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton, who are still tussling for the Democratic nomination, to reject the attacks. 
 ''Considering Senators Obama and Clinton's frequent denunciations of special interests, they must reject the unions' campaign against Senator McCain,'' said Alex Conant, the committee's press secretary.
 MICHAEL LUO 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (72%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (71%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (84%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2008



324 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2008

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2924 words

HEADLINE: A World of Art

BYLINE: JENNIFER RITTNER and JAVAID KHAN


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students share opinions about interesting museum exhibitions they remember. They then consider a variety of topics represented in museums and prepare exhibitions that highlight aspects from their current curriculum. 

 BODY:
Overview: In this lesson, students share opinions about interesting museum exhibitions they remember. They then consider a variety of topics represented in museums and prepare exhibitions that highlight aspects from their current curriculum.
Author(s):
Jennifer Rittner, The New York Times Learning Network
Javaid Khan, The Bank Street College of Education in New York City
Suggested Time Allowance: 1 hour.
Objectives:
Students will:
1. Share opinions about the museum exhibitions or collections they have found memorable.
2. Learn about a variety of topics in museums by reading and discussing the article "At Gettysburg, Farther From the Battle but Closer to History" or another article in "Museum: A Special Section."
3. Engage in a museum-related activity relevant to the class curriculum.
4. Complete their museum work for presentation.
Resources / Materials:
-pens/pencils
-classroom board
-a variety of art-making and/or poster-making supplies as outlined in the main activity
-copies of the article "At Gettysburg, Farther From the Battle but Closer to History," found online at http://www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20080313thursday.html (one per student)
-copies of the "Museums" section found online at http://www.nytimes.com/indexes/2008/03/12/arts/artsspecial/index.html
Note to teacher: With almost ten years of lesson plans in The New York Times Learning Network archive, we have written many on the subject of museums. Today, in honor of The Times' special Museums section, we attempt to bring some of the best of those ideas together to create a lesson that will allow you and your students to choose materials that best fit your current curriculum.
Activities / Procedures:
1. Warm-Up/Do-Now: Before class, write the following prompt on the board for students to respond to as a class: "What was the most memorable museum, collection, exhibition or art installation you have seen? Why? What objects, artists, subjects, movements or mediums do you think are the most interesting to learn about?" Prompt students to consider museums or exhibitions in a variety of subjects like art, history, living history, natural history or science. Have students share their opinions with the class.
2. Explain to the class that their reading assignment is a scavenger hunt. They should select any of the articles published in "Museums: A Special Section" (http://www.nytimes.com/indexes/2008/03/12/arts/artsspecial/index.html) and respond focusing on the following questions:
a. Where is the Gettysburg National Military Park museum moving? Why?
b. Who would have worn the regalia of the Dance of the Mountain Gods?
c. Which article is most likely to contain information about auction block footprints? What challenges are faced by the museum that houses those objects?
d. Which article is most likely to contain information about New Age practices?
e. Where in the Museum section can you find a painting by the artist El Greco?
f. Where can you find a bust of John F. Kennedy?
g. What is "i.Mirror?"
h. Where might sports fans go to find artifacts from their favorite pastimes?
i. Where is the National Cryptologic Museum? What does it display?
j. What article interests you most? Why?
3. Explain to students that they will explore a relevant curriculum topic through a museum lens. To begin, decide which of the curriculum areas is most suited for your class and select an article or articles relevant to that topic. Some areas of study covered in the special Museums section include: Gettysburg, the New Deal, Native American artifacts, World War II, slavery, historical photographs, aquariums and art of the 1960s. Then choose from one of the activities listed below and prepare the necessary materials and activity sheets.
A. USING ARTIFACTS TO TELL A STORY
(For example, could be used with "For American Indians, a Chance to Tell Their Own Story," http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/12/arts/artsspecial/12indian.html?ref=artsspecial).
Have students imagine that their community, or an area or community they are studying will someday become the site of an archaeological dig. What conclusions might future archaeologists draw about this community from unearthing key sites in the area? What contemporary objects might provide meaningful clues about life in the community during its heyday? Prompt students to identify the objects that might become meaningful artifacts for future archeologists at various community sites (school, library, recreation facility, shopping center, town hall, apartment complex, place of worship, park, business district, health care office and transportation center). What conclusions might be drawn about the community's rituals, values, hierarchy and structure, laws, work and entertainment based on the artifacts that might be found at each of the sites? Students might then create an exhibition of objects and images that tells a story about the community.
B. CREATING TRAVEL GUIDES TO THE PAST
(For example, could be used with "A Slavery Museum Negotiates the Treacherous Route to Funding," http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/12/arts/artsspecial/12slave.html?ref=artsspecial and/or "Type in 'Native American' and Search (Someday) 13 Million Photos," http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/12/arts/artsspecial/12photos.html?ref=artsspecial)
Explain to students that they will be learning about landmarks and other historic places that are associated with key themes or events in history (for example, immigration; slavery; terrorism; a particular war; etc.). They then will create related travel guides for educational tours of important sites associated with an elected theme or event. Have students choose two landmarks or historic places identified with this theme and write blurbs about each for an illustrated guide or annotated map. Have them include information about the particulars of each place as well as its larger significance.
C. CURATING EXHIBITIONS THAT EXPRESS DIFFERENT POINTS OF VIEW ON A COMMON THEME
(For example, could be used with the article "A Slavery Museum Negotiates the Treacherous Route to Funding," http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/12/arts/artsspecial/12slave.html?ref=artsspecial)
Explain to students that they will work individually to curate an exhibit of several objects that expresses varying points of view about a particular issue or theme. First have them brainstorm ways this theme or issue might be seen or illustrated differently. For instance, a controversial issue like gun control can be argued from many different perspectives. Similarly, a broad theme like "baseball," might be illustrated through a collection of objects and materials that show not just famous major league players and games, but also looks at the game itself, what it means to different communities, etc.
Have students collect art and artifacts that might illustrate an interesting diversity of points of view on the topic. Have them write captions for the objects selected and offer introductions (one to two paragraphs) that summarize their themes and the purposes of their exhibits. Advise students to collect a variety of materials, including copies of paintings, photographs, political cartoons, advertisements, newspaper articles and even physical objects (like flags or food containers) or video clips. In the next class, have students present their exhibits and discuss how the same topic engendered different points of view or ways of expressing similar points of view. Do they think their perspectives might be considered controversial? Why or why not?
D. CREATING AN EXHIBITION THAT COMPARES HISTORIC AND CONTEMPORARY CULTURE
(For example, could be used with "Re-Enter the Gilded Age,"http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/12/arts/artsspecial/12rooms.html?ref=artsspecial" or "A Moment in History, Recaptured for a Second Time," http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/12/arts/artsspecial/12GETTY.html?ref=artsspecial)
Have students create an exhibition that compares a historic society with a contemporary counterpart. Split the class into groups and explain that each group's task is to create a table display on one aspect of the societies selected (for example, religion, arts and entertainment, economics, etc.) How can students illustrate the similarities and differences between these two societies in terms of this aspect of their culture? Invite them to use drawings, lists, charts, collages, video or music clips, or anything else that will help convey their ideas. When the displays are complete and are installed for viewing around the room, place a piece of paper next to each. As students walk silently around the room and view all of the displays, they should write down comments on the accompanying paper.
Next, ask students what stood out to them the most from the exhibits they just viewed. Did anything they learned surprise them? What can we learn from the past?
4. WRAP-UP/HOMEWORK: Depending on the project chosen for the main lesson, students continue working in their groups or individually to complete their work for presentation.
Further Questions for Discussion:
-What do you think we can learn from viewing art?
-What can artifacts tell us about distant civilizations?
-Are there objects in your home that represent people, places or events that existed or took place before you were born? If so, what are they and what do they represent?
-If you could create a museum exhibition featuring an influential person, who would it be? What objects or images would you include to invoke the importance of that person's life?
-If you could create a museum display about yourself, what two or three objects or images would you choose to represent you? Why?
Evaluation / Assessment:
Students will be evaluated based on participation in the opening exercise and thoughtful preparation and execution of their presentations.
Vocabulary:
Hallowed, artifacts, jest, sanitize
Extension Activities:
1. Prepare a time capsule for your school and fill it with objects that represent the many aspects of life in your community. What might future generations know and believe about you and your classmates based on the objects you include? How might the objects selected be designed to favorably depict you and your community? What objects might you avoid including, and why? Keep a list of objects. Plan to return to the school with your peers in 5, 10 or 15 years to unearth the time capsule and gauge what it reveals.
2. Who (institutions, groups and individuals) owns ancient artifacts? What controversies have arisen concerning the excavation, sale and ownership of ancient artifacts from sites around the world? What roles have museums, archeologists, religious organizations, cultural groups and community leaders played in the illegal or black market trade of artifacts? What international laws have been put into place and why? Prepare a thorough report of your findings and convene a debate on the issues.
3. Paint and create a portrait gallery of noteworthy figures from your school or community history for display in a designated area of your school.
4. What laws exist concerning the unearthing of artifacts in the United States? What controversies have arisen concerning the excavation of American Indian and/or African American burial grounds in the United States in the past and present? Identify one such situation and write an opinion paper that addresses your perspective on the controversy and how it was handled by the various parties.
5. Prepare a "How-It-Works" poster explaining a traditional or modern painting conservation technique. How are laser technology, ultraviolet light and/or digital imaging used to conserve paintings and other relics of the past?
6. Read The Times every day for two weeks and clip several images associated with a current or breaking news item. Create a digital slide show that includes the images with a short caption to accompany each. How instrumental are the images in telling the story? As needed, write a narrative to record with the slide show. To order The New York Times for your classroom, click here.
Interdisciplinary Connections:
Economics - Review the ads that accompany the Museums section of The Times and identify a foundation or corporate sponsor for an exhibition. What relationship might the sponsor have to the theme or contents of the exhibition? What other cultural ventures does this foundation or corporation sponsor? How does the sponsor benefit from its philanthropic efforts? What is the monetary value of its sponsorship of this exhibition? How much money did it dispense in philanthropic ventures in its last fiscal year? Prepare a report based on your findings.
Journalism - Visit a museum and write a critique of an exhibition to publish in your school newspaper.
Media Studies - Walk through the commercial or business district in your community and photograph media images that you think tell a story about your community. These may be images of newspaper stands, billboards, store windows or signs. Who is the audience or audiences for these messages? What do they reflect about the wants, needs, concerns or desires of the community? Prepare a collage of images and write a short narrative that examines the ways in which those images reflect or influence an aspect of the community.
Other Information on the Web:
Library of Congress (http://www.loc.gov/rr/print/) offers an online database of American prints and photographs.
Smithsonian Institution (http://www.si.edu) provides information about and links to images in its collection of American art, history and science.
Academic Content Standards:
Grades 6-8
Science Standard 16- Understands the scientific enterprise. Benchmarks: Knows that people of all backgrounds and with diverse interests, talents, qualities and motivations engage in fields of science and engineering; knows that the work of science requires a variety of human abilities, qualities and habits of mind; knows various settings in which scientists and engineers may work; knows ways in which science and society influence each other.
Geography Standard 17- Understands how geography is used to interpret the past. Benchmarks: knows how physical and human geographic factors have influenced major historic events and movements; knows historic and current conflicts and competition regarding the use and allocation of resources; knows the ways in which the spatial organization of society changes over time; knows significant physical features that have influenced historical events.
Historical Understanding Standard 2- Understands the historical perspective. Benchmarks: Understands that historical accounts are subject to change based on newly uncovered records and interpretations.
World History Standard 11- Understands major global trends from 1000 B.C.E. to 300 C.E. Benchmark: Understands the concept and importance of "classical civilizations."
World History Standard 17- Understands the rise of centers of civilization in Mesoamerica and Andean South America in the first millennium C.E. Benchmarks: Understands what art and architecture reveal about early Mesoamerica and Andean societies; Understands social features of Andean societies.
Visual Arts Standard 3- Knows a range of subject matter, symbols an potential ideas in the visual arts. Benchmark: Knows different subjects, themes and symbols which convey intended meaning in artworks.
Visual Arts Standard 4- Understands the visual arts in relation to history and cultures. Benchmarks: Understands similarities and differences among the characteristics of artworks from various eras and cultures; Understands the historical and cultural contexts of a variety of art objects.
Grades 9-12
Science Standard 16- Understands the scientific enterprise. Benchmarks: Understands that individuals and teams contribute to science and engineering at different levels of complexity; Understands that science involves different types of work in many different disciplines; Knows that creativity, imagination and a good knowledge base are all required in the work of science and engineering.
Geography Standard 17- Understands how geography is used to interpret the past. Benchmarks: Understands how the processes of spatial change have affected history; Understands how people's changing perceptions of geographic features have led to changes in human societies; Understands the ways in which physical and human features have influenced the evolution of significant historic events and movements.
Historical Understanding Standard 2- Understands the historical perspective. Benchmarks: Analyzes how specific historical events would be interpreted differently based on newly uncovered records and/or information; Uses historical maps to understand the relationship between historical events and geography.
World History Standard 11- Understands major global trends from 1000 B.C.E. to 300 C.E. Benchmark: Understands patterns of social and cultural continuity in various societies.
World History Standard 17- Understands the rise of centers of civilization in Mesoamerica and Andean South America in the 1st millennium C.E. Benchmark: Understands relationships between Mesoamerican and Andean societies.
Visual Arts Standard 3- Knows a range of subject matter, symbols an potential ideas in the visual arts. Benchmark: Understands how visual, spatial, temporal and functional values of artworks are tempered by culture and history.
Visual Arts Standard 4- Understands the visual arts in relation to history and cultures. Benchmark: Knows a variety of historical and cultural contexts regarding characteristics and purposes of works of art.

        
At Gettysburg, Farther From the Battle but Closer to History

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); CURRICULA (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); HISTORY (89%); WRITERS (89%); VISUAL ARTS (88%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ART HISTORY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (77%); TEACHER EDUCATION (76%); HISTORIC SITES (74%); NATIONAL PARKS (64%) Art as a Reflection of Society; Creative Writing; Education; Fine Arts; Geography; Historic Preservation; Language Arts; Photography; Social Studies; Teaching with The New York Times; Visual Arts; World Cultures and Traditions

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2011



325 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Are the Grandkids Worth the Money?

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
Arresting global warming won't come cheap. Europe and Japan are already spending billions to meet the modest carbon emission cuts that they agreed to in Kyoto 10 years ago. And according to a recent United Nations report, switching to cleaner energy sources would require investments of up to $20 trillion over the next two decades. Add to that other economic costs, such as the rise in food prices attributable to the world's embrace of renewable fuels. 
 This is money that might be spent to address other pressing social problems, like world hunger, lack of access to clean water in poor countries, malaria, AIDS. Is that a good trade-off? How much should the world be willing to sacrifice today to avert the future costs of global warming? 
 The scientists are clear that there is not a lot of time for this or any other debate. Climate change could start causing irreparable damage in the not-too-distant future. And there is a seemingly clear-cut ethical position to guide us: people's rights should not depend on when they were born. 
 Assuming our grandchildren's welfare is just as valuable as our own provides a metric to measure the value of investments for the future: devoting X percent of the current generation's income to forestall global warming would be a good deal if it produced a benefit amounting to more than X percent of that future generation's income. 
 Such notions of intergenerational equity underpin the 2006 Stern Review on the Economics of Climate Change, a British study that marked a turning point in the debate, stressing the enormous cost of delaying preventive action. It projected that avoiding large-scale environmental damage, starting in the second half of this century, justified starting to spend immediately 1 percent of the world's income -- about $700 billion this year -- to cut carbon emissions.
 However, farsightedness, as in saving for a rainy day, went out of fashion a long time ago. People often sacrifice the future to the present. We may love our children and grandchildren. But since they can't vote, we stiff them in the public sphere: poverty is deeper among children than the elderly, yet public spending on the elderly vastly outstrips spending on the young. In Florida, ''I'm spending my children's inheritance'' is a popular bumper sticker. Even among very green Western Europeans, polls show that the older people get, the less they are willing to pay to reduce carbon emissions. 
 There are other potential incongruities. The people of the future will very likely be richer and more productive than today's. So why should we be spending so much on the future's welfare? The regressive notion that 1 percent of income is worth the same for the poorer present than for the richer future is the kind of thinking that underpins the misguided argument for a flat tax. Moreover, it probably would be cheaper to cut carbon emissions using the future's more advanced technology. 
 Skeptics have used these arguments to make a case against aggressive efforts to address global warming. A group of respected, mainly American economists signed the so-called Copenhagen Consensus, stating that efforts to address global warming, such as the Kyoto Protocol, had ''costs that were likely to exceed the benefits.'' It was better to spend money on some of the world's other pressing problems. 
 Some criticisms are sensible. Perhaps the return on investments to avoid future climate change should clear a higher hurdle than the Stern report's roughly one-for-one payoff as a share of income to compensate for its regressive features. William Cline, an economist at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, suggested 1-to-1.5. Yet while this might justify somewhat less investment today to address the costs of warming tomorrow, it would still warrant aggressive action. 
 The best case for bold action now is that it provides insurance against the chance of an unfathomably grim future of large-scale environmental disruption, widespread species extinction, worldwide hunger. All of that might come to pass if the world chooses to do nothing. Averting that kind of future is worth quite a lot of investment today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (91%); EMISSIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); FOOD SECURITY (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (72%); BIOFUELS (71%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (71%); MALARIA (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); FOOD PRICES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



326 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 5288 words

HEADLINE: Museum and Gallery Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 BRUCE NAUMAN: 'DRAWINGS FOR INSTALLATIONS' Ask almost anyone for a short list of the most influential contemporary artists, and Bruce Nauman's name will be there. This survey of drawings related to his architecturally scaled installations, ranging from 1968 to the present, suggests why. Some are preliminary sketches for later completed projects. Others are second-thought variations made after a piece was done. Still others -- a series of studies for underground installations, for example -- are hard-core conceptual projects realized only on paper. Above, ''Untitled (Drain 1/Drain 2),'' from 1978. 
 In most cases the planned installation is based on the construction of a plain, empty, oddly configured space in some way designed to elicit paranoia, boredom and amusement in varying degrees. We are invited to inch sideways down a narrow space between walls. Or to walk down a corridor that hits a dead end when the walls meet in a point. Or to enter a cubicle flooded by a jaundice-yellow light that makes us more and more uneasy the longer we stay. 
 Mr. Nauman is into nervous-making, into producing discomposure, first in himself as a test case, then in us. His methods may look simple, but the effects are psychologically and intellectually complex, a combination of child's play, performance art, endurance test and Zen meditation. 
 If this show at Sperone Westwater feels a bit dry and spectral, and it does, that's because Mr. Nauman's installation drawings are, for the most part, the furthest thing from virtuoso displays. But a catalog with an essay by Michael Auping and commentary by the artist helps brings them to historical life. And once submerged in their imprisoning, liberating logic, you can start to inhabit them. Generations of American artists, whether they know it or not, have done so, and learned much. Mr. Nauman's appointment to represent the United States at the next Venice Biennale is a natural honor long overdue. (Through March 29, Sperone Westwater, 415 West 13th Street, West Village, 212-999-7337, speronewestwater.com.) HOLLAND COTTER 
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'GILDED LIONS AND JEWELED HORSES: THE SYNAGOGUE TO THE CAROUSEL,' through March 23. Skills and motifs used in sacred art resurface in a surprisingly secular place: the carousel. In this exhibition, models of elaborate wooden synagogues and photographs of Jewish cemeteries with intricately carved gravestones in Eastern Europe are alongside paper cuts, which look like giant, precision-cut snowflakes mounted on colored paper. The lineage from synagogue to carousel is made explicit in a display that juxtaposes carved Torah arks with carousel horses fashioned in the baroque Coney Island Style. The show reveals a vibrant Jewish visual culture, where Judaism is often seen as text-oriented. It is also a great immigrant story in which skills learned in the shtetls of Europe made their way to the New World and, for a brief moment, flourished. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Martha Schwendener) 
 COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'ROCOCO: THE CONTINUING CURVE, 1730-2008,' through July 6. This enthralling show has an extraordinarily high sumptuousness quotient. It explores the 18th-century Rococo style and its legacy, with a focus on furniture, ceramic vases, jewelry, mirrors, snuff boxes and other sorts of domestic ware. It includes works from most of the countries that Rococo reached, from Germany to Guatemala; takes in 19th-century Rococo revivals; and pursues the spirit if not the actual style of Rococo into the 20th century and beyond. 2 East 91st Street, Manhattan, (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Ken Johnson)
 EL MUSEO DEL BARRIO: 'ART DOES NOT EQUAL LIFE: ACTIONS BY ARTISTS OF THE AMERICAS, 1960-2000,' through May 18. The redefinition of modernism(s) through the illumination of its Latin American manifestations has been one of the joys of the current New York art season. This revelatory addition concentrates on the Happenings, Conceptual and Performance Art and Body Art and video that thrived in Latin America despite, or in response to, dire political and economic situations. With photographic and video documentation in the majority, the toughness and scope of the material, aided by a thoughtful installation, create their own fascination. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Roberta Smith) 
 THE FRICK COLLECTION: 'PARMIGIANINO'S ''ANTEA'': A BEAUTIFUL ARTIFICE,' through April 27. Exhibitions don't come any smaller than ''Parmigianino's 'Antea': A Beautiful Artifice.'' A painting, a wall text, a nugget of a scholarly catalog, and that's it. It's enough. Certain pictures, like certain performers, don't need troops of extras to make a large effect. Solo suits them. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Holland Cotter)
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'CAI GUO-QIANG: I WANT TO BELIEVE,' through May 28. This museumwide survey of a leading Chinese artist indicates considerable command of cross-cultural references and extreme appropriation, including a gang of sculptors remaking a classic Social Realist ensemble of life-size figures while you watch. Gunpowder is a favored material, violence a frequent motif. A stop-action installation of seemingly exploding cars hangs in the atrium space. Scores of arrows make pincushions of snarling tigers (stuffed), and there are carved-wood religious sculptures and an entire fishing boat. Videos documenting pyrotechnical land-art pieces go boom. The show has far more than its share of hollow spectacle. The scorched, mural-size gunpowder drawings that combine elements of performance art, Abstract Expressionism and traditional Chinese and Japanese painting are the most believable. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)
 HISPANIC SOCIETY OF AMERICA: 'FRANCIS AL$(YUML$)S FABIOLA,' through April 6. The first of three collaborations between the Dia Foundation for the Arts and the Hispanic Society of America is an astutely site-specific display of 300 Fabiola paintings collected by the artist Francis Als, who is based in Mexico. Made by devout amateurs worldwide, all are based on a lost original from 1885 and show Fabiola, the fourth-century saint, in profile, wearing a vibrant red veil. Mr. Als's 300 examples pepper dark-wood-paneled galleries with smoldering color and are consistent with the collaborative, subversive and open-ended nature of his art. North Building Galleries on Audubon Terrace, Broadway between 155th and 156th Streets, Washington Heights, (212) 926-2234, diaart.org. (Smith)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'ARCHIVE FEVER: USES OF THE DOCUMENT IN CONTEMPORARY ART,' through May 4. You need no grounding in art theory to understand the messages generated by this powerful brain-pincher of a theme show. The archive of the title is less a thing or a place than a concept, an immersive environment: the sum total of documentary images, mostly photographic, circulating in the culture, on the street, in the media and finally in what is called the collective memory. From an Andy Warhol silk-screen of a black civil rights demonstrator attacked by police dogs, to a gallery wallpapered with the front pages of international newspapers reporting on the destruction of the twin towers, truth, untruth and their consequences make up the riveting story here. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0045, icp.org. (Cotter)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'THE COLLECTIONS OF BARBARA BLOOM,' through May 4. Instead of the walk-in installations for which Ms. Bloom is best known, this survey displays pieces from different phases of her career as discrete works of sculpture, assemblage, collage, photography and design. This is confusing, but attentive viewers will profit from studying her ideologically subversive, dryly humorous and formally inventive play with many different forms of representation, from faux-antique plaster self-portrait busts to a found-object sculpture in the form of a Braille edition of Playboy magazine. (See above.) (Johnson)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'DEPTH OF FIELD,' through March 23. The Met's recently acquired large-scale photographs finally have some room to breathe in the new Joyce and Robert Menschel Hall for Modern Photography, a high-ceilinged, gray-carpeted sanctuary on the second floor. Curators at MoMA need not worry: The inaugural installation (a sampler rather than a thematic slice) is dominated by white, mostly male Europeans and heavily weighted with references to history and landscape painting. Despite its limitations, ''Depth of Field'' is not a bad debut. We can also expect more from future installations, which will explore themes like ''photography about photography.'' (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
 THE MET: 'GUSTAVE COURBET,' through May 18. Starting with an amazing if claustrophobic gallery of self-portraits that emphasize Courbet's ambition, attention to the old masters and inborn truculence, this show offers a grand tour of one of 19th-century European painting's most unruly geniuses. Realism, at whose prow he is usually placed, is in many ways the least of it. Several works could easily date from the 20th century, by artists like Balthus, Picabia or Max Ernst. What Courbet made most real was the sheer, implicitly ironic uncanniness of painting itself, which he conveyed in a commanding discombobulation. Some paintings barely hold together; others collapse inward into strange, shapeless masses. No artist before Picasso put so much of himself on canvas; few since have built in so many spatial booby traps, ambiguous feelings or elements of rebellion and dissent. Some were conscious; others were left for us to discover, to feel in our bones. (See above.) (Smith)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'JASPER JOHNS: GRAY,' through May 4. Since his paintings of targets and American flags took the art world by storm 50 years ago, Jasper Johns has been a cultural fact and the subject of numerous museum exhibitions. But this is one of the best. Moody, opulent and eloquent, it singles out his many paintings in gray, the color at the core of his sensibility, along with numerous sculptures, drawings and prints that are inherently gray. Together they chronicle his maturation from brilliant, methodical young artist to a deeper, more lyrical, less predictable one. And frankly, it is almost a relief to follow the incessant unfolding of this singular career without the brightly colored, better-known masterpieces. (See above.) (Smith)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'POUSSIN AND NATURE: ARCADIAN VISIONS,' through May 11. If a painter can be judged by the love he inspires, Nicholas Poussin (1594-1665) was one of art history's great valentines. Corot, Delacroix, Constable and Cezanne all adored him. So did Picasso and Matisse. You can see why in this show of his post-Classical, pre-Romantic landscapes and drawings. Every age has a different style for ''serious'' in art; Poussin's was different from our own, but enthralling and moving in its moral gravity and poise. (See above.) (Cotter) 
 THE MET: 'SILVERSMITHS TO THE NATION: THOMAS FLETCHER AND SIDNEY GARDINER, 1808-1842,' through May 4. Blending neo-Classical kitsch, patriotic flair and superb craftsmanship, the Philadelphia silversmiths Thomas Fletcher and Sidney Gardiner pumped up the genre of the commemorative cup to works of awesome, small-scale monumentalism. Standing almost 30 inches from its hairy paw feet to the furrowed brow of a bellicose eagle mounted on the lid of its soup tureen bowl, an urn made in 1813 to honor Capt. Isaac Hull was at the time the heaviest, tallest and most complex work in silver ever produced in North America. It is still pretty impressive. (See above.) (Johnson)
 THE MET: 'ART OF TIME: EUROPEAN CLOCKS AND WATCHES FROM THE COLLECTION,' through April 27. This enthralling, compact show presents about 90 European timepieces, ranging from pocket watches to grandfather clocks and dating from the 16th through the 18th centuries. There are traditional mantel clocks in wooden, peaked-roofed houses and extravagantly fanciful forms like one from 1579 that has a revolving globe engraved with star charts and figures of the zodiac held up on the wingtips of a flying horse, all beautifully fashioned in silver. (See above.) (Johnson)
 THE MET: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2009. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'CLOSE ENCOUNTERS: IRVING PENN PORTRAITS OF ARTISTS AND WRITERS,' through April 13. Last spring, in its first foray into modern photography, the Morgan Library & Museum acquired 67 of Irving Penn's portraits of artists, writers and musicians. (Thirty-five were donated by Mr. Penn.) The entire group is temporarily on view in an exhibition that complements the library's collection of 20th-century drawings, manuscripts, books and musical scores. Organized by a guest curator, Peter Barberie, ''Close Encounters'' encompasses work from the 1940s, when Mr. Penn first started to work for Vogue, through portraits published in The New Yorker in 2006. Mr. Penn's subjects, including Marcel Duchamp, Arthur Miller and Truman Capote, emerged from their portrait sessions with their carefully shaped personas profoundly shaken. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'MICHELANGELO, VASARI AND THEIR CONTEMPORARIES: DRAWINGS FROM THE UFFIZI,' through April 20. Michelangelo, with a couple of spectacular drawings, is the marquee name here, but many of the 16th-century Florentine artists he influenced fill the space, beginning with the extreme polymath Giorgio Vasari. A handful of drawings by Pontormo and Rosso Fiorentino will knock your socks off, as will work by a few less familiar artists, all working to make the Medici rulers of Florence look good. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008590-0310, morganlibrary.org. (Cotter)
 MUSEUM OF ARTS & DESIGN: 'PRICKED: EXTREME EMBROIDERY,' through April 27. The second in a series of exhibitions (following last year's ''Radical Lace and Subversive Knitting''), ''Pricked'' makes another case for needlecraft without the ''craft.'' The show places widely known contemporary artists like Laura Owens and Ghada Amer alongside Elaine Reichek and others who have been working with thread and textiles since the '70s. In the best works historical and technical concerns overlap, just as they do in traditional embroidered samplers. 40 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 956-3535, madmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'JAN DE COCK: DENKMAL 11, MUSEUM OF MODERN ART, 11 WEST 53 STREET, NEW YORK, 2008,' through April 14. The word denkmal translates from German as monument or memorial. In Dutch it is a mold for thought. Both definitions fit the work of Jan De Cock, a 31-year-old Belgian artist who appropriates and arranges photographs in what might be viewed as an open-ended yet ultimately conservative encyclopedia. Overflowing with references to modern art, experimental film, photography and architecture, the project pulls most of the museum into its orbit. It incorporates elements of De Stijl, Russian Constructivism and Kurt Schwitters's collage/studio Merzbau, among other things. It is also the starting point of a yearlong project called ''American Odyssey,'' for which Mr. De Cock will travel to various and document cultural landmarks around the country. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'JOHN SLOAN'S NEW YORK,' through March 23 Etchings by the Ashcan School artist Sloan suggest he was a better draftsman than painter. Few of the 34 prints on view are much bigger than postcards, but teeming as they are with affectionate, finely detailed observations of old, young, poor and rich people on sidewalks, in parks and in subways, they have a Dickensian amplitude. 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Johnson)
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'PICTURING NEW YORK: THE ART OF YVONNE JACQUETTE AND RUDY BURCKHARDT,' through April 13 (Burckhardt); through May 4 (Jacquette). This dual exhibition displays photographs by Burckhardt, who died at 85 in 1999, alongside paintings by Ms. Jacquette, his widow and 20 years his junior, who is still working. Burckhardt's black-and-white images approach the city from several angles, descending from rooftops to street level and even into the subways. Ms. Jacquette's works peer down into the canyons between high-rises. This pair of shows does not establish either artist as an unjustly overlooked talent, but it reveals the competing visions of the city behind a romantic and creative partnership. 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Rosenberg)
 NEUE GALERIE: 'GUSTAV KLIMT: THE RONALD S. LAUDER AND SERGE SABARSKY COLLECTIONS,' through June 30. The first New York museum show devoted exclusively to this Viennese master is less a coherent Klimt exhibition than a Klimt-o-rama. The main draw is a veritable retrospective of the drawings, erotic and otherwise, and a smattering of paintings starring the new-in-town, gold-on-gold ''Adele Bloch-Bauer I.'' Also here: a photo mural of sections of Klimt's most famous painted mural, the ''Beethoven Frieze''; a period room; photographs and personal effects, including one of the artist's signature caftans; and piped-in music, all written in Vienna of course, and available for purchase on CD. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Smith)
 NEW MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'UNMONUMENTAL: THE OBJECT IN THE 21ST CENTURY,' through March 30. The New Museum has eked as much exhibition space as possible out of its new, elegantly bare-bones building and is devoting almost all of it to a raucous, polemical first show. The premise, as reflected in the work of 30 artists (among them, Rachel Harrison, Isa Genzken, Eliot Hundley, Carol Bove, Jock Bock and Sarah Lucas), is that assemblage sculpture is the most viable art form of the moment. Lo-tech, cheap, portable and rough around the edges if not actually falling apart, it reflects our fractured times and also resists easy absorption by the art market. While visually messy, way too hip and a tad monotonous, the show is a gauntlet thrown down to other New York museums. It says: Get your nerve on. Take a stand. Do something that inspires true argument, not just endless kvetching. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Smith)
 NOGUCHI MUSEUM: 'DESIGN: ISAMU KENMOCHI AND ISAMU NOGUCHI,' through May 25. The Bamboo Basket Chair was the result of a brief collaboration in 1950 between the Japanese-American sculptor and designer Isamu Noguchi (1904-88) and the Japanese industrial designer Isamu Kenmochi (1912-71). The chair was never manufactured, and the prototype was lost. The example here was recreated from photographs. Mostly, however, the chair provides an excuse to compare the design careers of Noguchi and Kenmochi and examine their roles in midcentury modern design, as well as the cultural relationship between Japan and the United States. Kenmochi's ''Japanese modern'' furniture is here, as well as a room devoted to Noguchi's most popular design achievement, the Akari light sculptures. 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. (Schwendener)
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'WACK! ART AND THE FEMINIST REVOLUTION,' through May 12. This big, messy, fascinating scrapbook of a show focuses on the years between the mid-1960s and the early '80s, when feminism had its most intense impact on contemporary art. Presenting works by 120 women, it is uneven in quality, but the overall effect is exciting. It takes you back to a heady time when women were throwing out old, patriarchal laws and reinventing art in all kinds of idiosyncratic and sometimes dangerously extreme terms. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)
 QUEENS MUSEUM OF ART: 'NEW YORK STATES OF MIND,' through March 23. Organized for the House of World Cultures in Berlin, where it appeared last fall, this show is too narrow, uneven and ideologically tendentious to represent truly the spirit of New York art. Nevertheless, it is an interesting, provocative exhibition, featuring high-profile artists like David Hammons, Terence Koh, Josephine Meckseper, Patty Chang and about two dozen others. If you want to have a lively argument about the real nature of New York art, it's a good place to start. Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, (718) 592-9700, www.queensmuseum.org. (Johnson)
 SCANDINAVIA HOUSE: 'ARS FENNICA: FINNISH ART NOW,' through April 12. Finland has its own version of the Turner Prize in Britain: the $50,000 Ars Fennica Prize. This sleepy show presents works by 2007's four finalists. It includes gimmicky sculptures by Markus Kahre; fairy-tale-like images painted and drawn by Elina Merenmies; Anna Tuori's brushy, mock-kitsch paintings of vaguely Asian landscapes; and, by Elina Brotherus, large, bland landscape photographs and a relaxing video triptych of people skinny dipping in peaceful, outdoor waters. 58 Park Avenue between 37th and 38th streets, (212) 879-9779, scandinaviahouse.org. (Johnson)
 Galleries: SoHo
 MICHEL GONDRY: 'BE KIND REWIND' Acting on a populist, anti-corporate impulse, the director of the movie ''Be Kind Rewind'' has invited amateurs to make their own movies using a miniature version of a Hollywood back lot constructed in a gallery's industrial, garage-size space. Visitors not making films can wander among the sets and, in a simulation grungy video shop up front, watch short, intermittently amusing but woefully unskillful films that aspiring filmmakers have made thus far. Deitch Projects, 18 Wooster Street, near Grand Street, (212) 343-7300, deitch.com, through March 22. (Johnson)
 Galleries: Other
 BARBARA T. SMITH: '1965-1972' Including paintings, photographs, drawings and ''The Field,'' an installation piece consisting of 16 blades of grass over nine feet tall, this is the first New York gallery show of a California installation and performance artist now in her mid-70s. It provides a core sample of a fertile, fast-moving period in an innovative, little-known career whose through line is perception, the body and a sense of play. Maccarone, 630 Greenwich Street, at Morton Street, West Village, (212) 431-4977, maccarone.net, through March 21. (Smith)
 'DIEBENKORN IN NEW MEXICO' In graduate school in Albuquerque at the beginning of the 1950s, Richard Diebenkorn put his own spin on the drawing-painting fusion of Willem de Kooning's black-and-white paintings, interjecting an elegant, waggish sense of line borrowed from George Herriman's Krazy Kat cartoons, along with brushy, glowing layers of color. He would later go on to make grander, more complex works, but in many ways his painting was never freer, less predictable or more full of the future than in New Mexico. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, at Waverly Place, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart, through April 5. (Smith)
 UNDER PAIN OF DEATH' This uneven show about capital punishment has too many pieces that are only indirectly related to the theme, but it has some thought-provoking works, including ''The Last Supper,'' an Errol Morris-style documentary film by Mats Bigert and Lars Bergstrom, about preparing final meals for condemned prisoners; and an understated, oddly abstracted video by Harun Farocki in which surveillance tapes reveal murderous conditions in a maximum-security prison. Austrian Cultural Form, 11 East 52nd Street, (212) 319-5300, acfny.org, through May 10. (Johnson)
 Out of Town
 PHILADELPHIA MUSEUM OF ART: 'NOTATIONS/WILLIAM KENTRIDGE: TAPESTRIES,' through April 6. This uneven show of not-so-lively collages, sculptures and prints, and 11 large and much livelier tapestries based on the collages, confirms that the work of this South African artist is best in translation, filtered through a second process. In this case it is the craft of expert weavers; the degree to which their increase in scale, texture, intricacy and color improves on the collages is more than striking. The subject here is displacement, refugeeism and survival, conveyed by the imposing silhouettes of ''Porters'' that either carry or oddly merge with objects while seeming to move across 19th-century maps of Europe and other continents. The style is a kind of send-up of Baroque art, but the images point metaphorically and painfully toward the future. Benjamin Franklin Parkway, at 26th Street, (215) 763-8100, philamuseum.org. (Smith)
 SMITHSONIAN AMERICAN ART MUSEUM: 'COLOR AS FIELD: AMERICAN PAINTING, 1950-1975,' through May 26. An overdue, if far from perfect, reconsideration of Color Field painting reintroduces the joyful pictorial derring-do of an art movement partly done in by the single-minded advocacy of its biggest fan, the great American art critic Clement Greenberg. It is wonderful to see some of the best of this work float free of the Greenbergian claims for greatness and inevitability, propelled by the fantastic soft power of brilliant color, big scale and judicious amounts of pristine raw canvas -- especially as wielded by Helen Frankenthaler, Morris Louis, Kenneth Noland and Jules Olitski. Perhaps humorless power-lust prevented Greenberg from seeing that if, as he said, Abstract Expressionism was Baroque, then Color Field might be Rococo: beautiful, sometimes frivolous and even comedic. Eighth Street and F Street, NW, Washington, (202) 633-7970, americanart.si.edu. (Smith)
 Last Chance
 TOMMY HARTUNG The main draw in this solo debut is ''The Story of Edward Holmes,'' an enchanting if overly slow stop-action video animation made with small objects and table-top set-ups. The purposefully generic, slightly archaic, hard-to-follow voice-over -- written by Mr. Hartung -- concerns the determined captain of a storm-tossed frigate and his crew, most of them represented by little plastic replicas of 19th-century portrait busts. There are intimations of colonialism and exploitation, deft layers of literary conventions and a wry sense of sculptural expediency. The objects that appear in the film complete the show; while nothing quite jells, it presents a multifaceted sensibility of unusual promise. Moti Hasson Gallery, 535 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 268-4444, motihasson.com; closes on Sunday. (Smith)
 THE JEWISH MUSEUM: 'FROM THE NEW YORKER TO SHREK: THE ART OF WILLIAM STEIG' . Children may know William Steig as the creator of Shrek, but their grandparents can trace that ornery green ogre's roots through a body of children's books, New Yorker cartoons and drawings dating to the Depression. Neither group will be disappointed by this exhibition. With reading and activity nooks alongside drawings of contentious and alienated grown-ups, the show is a child pleaser that does not stint on the adult biography of the thrice-divorced, periodically depressed Steig. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, jewishmuseum.org; closes on Sunday. (Rosenberg)
 FRANZ KLINE Full advantage should be taken of any chance to tangle with the beams and rigging of Franz Kline's black-and-white abstractions, and to ponder their relationship to contemporary sculptors like David Smith and Mark Di Suvero. The works here span 1951 to 1960 and include two small, sprightly ink studies. The standouts are the complexly balanced, calligraphic ''Ninth Street'' (1951), made just before Kline's beams straightened out, and ''Heaume'' of 1958, a skewed, four-square hulk that evokes the artist's affection for all things railroad, including locomotives and ties. L&M Arts, 45 East 78th Street, (212) 861-0020, lmgallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 JAN KOPP: 'THE MISSING IMAGE' For the New York solo debut of this artist based in Paris, an imposing if nonchalant sculpture of a large satellite dish made of pink foam is followed by a snappy, five-part video in which repeating sequences speed up and slow down in sync with music. In one a border collie periodically sends a flock of sheep spilling across the landscape like so much liquid, set to the opening passages of Stravinsky's ''Rite of Spring.'' It may be little more than smart music video, but it's mesmerizing. Martos Gallery, 540 West 29th Street, Chelsea, (212) 560-0670; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 JEAN LOWE: 'ACHIEVE AND MAINTAIN A MORE POWERFUL DELUSION' Here's a book that some people might find useful: ''10 Steps to Becoming a Published Author in Your Next Life.'' It's one of 200 funny, richly painted papier-mache sculptures of books displayed on fake wooden shelves in this San Diego artist's laugh-out-loud exhibition. McKenzie Fine Art, 511 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 989-5467, mckenziefineart.com; closes on Saturday. (Johnson)
 BJARNE MELGAARD This exhibition basically fires on all cylinders: neo-Neo-Expressionist painting, video, installation, design-decoration, word-image narrative (with antique furniture), romance and sex (all kinds). Which is to say that it both celebrates and thumbs its nose in nearly every imaginable direction. A good time should be had by just about anyone, and there's comfortable seating as well. Greene Naftali, 508 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 463-7770, greenenaftaligallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 SARAH PICKERING: 'FIRE SCENE' As an artist in residence at the Fire Service College in Moreton-in-Marsh, England, from 2006 to 2007, Sarah Pickering took pictures of ''burn units,'' set-dressed interiors set on fire to educate forensic teams and crime scene investigators. The blazes in these photographs provoke an immediate adrenaline response. More interesting, however, is the carefully orchestrated clutter of the imaginary households. In ''Electric Radiator,'' a space heater brushes up against a chintz sofa; in ''Makeshift Cooking,'' a similar device is being used to warm a teakettle. It all amounts to a broken-windows theory of disorder as the root of disaster. Daniel Cooney Fine Art, 511 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-8158, danielcooneyfineart.com; closes on Saturday. (Rosenberg)
 KON TRUBKOVICH: 'ALMOST NOWHERE' This young, Russian-born artist is adept at a range of mediums, including video, photography, video-based photo-realist painting (which looks almost abstract) and several forms of appropriation. He also has an attention-holding subject, prison life (especially the 1971 Attica uprising) as fact and as metaphor. But he fails as yet to tie it all together in a compelling way that would lessen his debut's resemblance to a very hip group show. Boesky Gallery, 509 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 680-9889, marianneboeskygallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (88%); JEWS & JUDAISM (84%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (79%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); RELIGION (64%); CEMETERIES (60%); MEDITATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (67%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



327 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: As Debts Pile Up, the Collectors Try to Put On a Friendlier Face

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Just in time for a recession, the debt collection industry is working to shed its reputation for remorselessly hounding people.
 Oh, the collectors still want the money. But now they would like to be seen as helpful and sympathetic, even a force for good.
 They have started calling the indebted ''our customers.'' They are pushing consumer tips on the ideal way to respond when a collector comes calling (basically: pay up). They note that debt collecting is an old American tradition. (Abraham Lincoln was a debt collector, some histories say.) They point out how, in a time of rising unemployment, they are hiring.
 ''Collectors actually care about consumers,'' said Rozanne Andersen, general counsel of ACA International, the main industry trade group. ''They want to teach consumers how to get out of debt. They're trying to put themselves out of business.'' 
 If so, they are doing a poor job. So many people are in so much debt that the government says bill collecting is one of the fastest-growing businesses. By 2016, employment in it is projected to exceed half a million workers, up 23 percent in a decade. 
 When that projection was made in 2006, the times seemed comparatively good. Many Americans were paying their bills by refinancing their homes. That era is rapidly receding as home equity shrinks, foreclosures spiral upward and credit card defaults increase.
 Figures are scant on the number of debtors or how much they owe, but it is clear that even mild downturns can push millions toward insolvency. The number of borrowers who were at least four months behind on a credit card, auto, house or installment loan doubled after the 2001 recession, to nearly seven million, according to credit bureau data analyzed by a Federal Reserve economist.
 When a bill goes unpaid, the credit card company, hospital, store or other creditor usually makes efforts to collect. If that fails, the debt is assigned for collection or sold outright to third-party agencies. In 2005, 150,000 such debt collectors took in $51.4 billion, a PricewaterhouseCoopers study indicated.
 A weak economy yields more work for third-party collectors but not necessarily higher revenue because unemployed debtors as a rule cannot pay. The industry thinking is that if collections can be made less adversarial, the success rate may go up.
 ''Most of our customers want to pay,'' said Gary Wood, president of DBA International, a group of debt buyers and collectors. ''We want a relationship that will enable the customer to satisfy their need to pay what they owe and at the same time enable us to feed our families.''
 ACA International, through its foundation, is developing a personal financial management course, which it plans to post on its Web site next month and promote in national newspaper advertisements. A draft version offers a view from the collector's perspective: It recommends that consumers who are victims of identify theft contact the Federal Trade Commission, but does not say that they can do the same if they have complaints about collectors. (They can.)
 ''You attract more flies with honey than with vinegar,'' the ACA foundation's chairman, William E. Wilcox, said. ''This is just a start.''
 There is another reason for the collection industry's public relations push: tough economic times could bring more scrutiny of collectors by legislators and regulators.
 ''Collectors are in a jam,'' said Robert M. Hunt, a senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, who follows the industry. ''The business is so big and the anecdotes so nasty, they can't hide.'' Much better, Mr. Hunt said, to take the initiative.
 Even in the relatively good times in the middle of this decade, complaints about the industry consistently rose. In 2006, the most recent figures available, the Federal Trade Commission received 69,204 complaints against third-party collectors, more than quadruple the number in 2001.
 Many people said the collectors misrepresented the character, amount or legal status of a debt. Others said the collector harassed them by calling repeatedly or continually, used obscene language or threatened dire consequences if no payment was forthcoming. 
 Collectors say the complaints are a tiny fraction of the hundreds of millions of communications a year they have with debtors, and should not be used as a lever to tighten regulation. To protect its interests, ACA International, formerly the American Collectors Association, opened a full-time Washington lobbying office this month.
 Another collectors group, the National Association of Retail Collection Attorneys, has hired a leading public relations firm, Waggener Edstrom Worldwide, and started pressing its arguments on Capitol Hill.
 ''When changes are made by Congress or regulators, we want to make sure there are no unintended consequences,'' the association's president, Robert G. Markoff, said.
 Mr. Markoff's group represents an increasingly prominent part of the debt industry: law firms that are hired by creditors or that buy delinquent accounts outright. If phone calls to the indebted person do not produce the desired results, the lawyers sue, and may seek to have paychecks garnished.
 Association membership has jumped 44 percent in the last five years, to 820 law firms. It had operated in the shadow of ACA International, which is based in Minneapolis and has 5,500 members, but lately it has sought to draw differences.
 ''We're trying to create an awareness that attorneys collect debt ethically,'' Mr. Markoff, whose practice is in Chicago, said. ''To lump us in with a high school graduate who has not received similar training is not fair.''
 In a recent interview, Ira F. Leibsker, another Chicago collections lawyer and past president of the association, acknowledged that the notion of a friendly debt collector had its limits. ''We're trying to take people's money from them. Let's be honest,'' he said.
 He cited some points rarely mentioned about the industry, like the opportunities it offers. ''I have 180 employees feeding 180 families,'' he said. ''Half if not more are single mothers, some of whom have only a high school education.'' His employees make $12 to $20 an hour phoning debtors.
 The lawyers' group, like ACA International, is practicing outreach of a sort. Mr. Markoff is writing a column on President Lincoln, describing an inability to pay his own bills and his time as a collection lawyer. 
 Mr. Markoff also believes in self-empowerment. ''I'm proud to be a debt collector,'' he said. ''I tell everyone within earshot and with my head held high.''
 One recent morning he was in a courtroom in Chicago, waiting for dozens of debtors to show up in response to summonses. Only one appeared: Joslyn Savage, born in 1964, married with three children.
 As soon as Ms. Savage checked in with the court, Mr. Markoff took her into the hallway and sat her down on a bench.
 ''This is kind of old, isn't it?'' he said, holding a folder with a six-year-old bill for $2,644 from a Citibank credit card. ''We'd like to see if we can settle it.''
 He asked questions rapidly and politely: Employed? No. Own real estate? Not in her name. Bank accounts? No. Expensive jewelry? She twisted her wedding ring. He reassured her that he was not going to take it.
 Ms. Savage said her only income was her unemployment check. Mr. Markoff set up a payment plan of $100 a month and went away, satisfied with his new customer. She sat there a while longer, seeming more resigned than anything else. 
 ''I used the money; I didn't pay;I feel I have to pay,'' she said. ''What can I do?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Assistants working at the law firm of Baker, Miller, Markoff & Krasny in Chicago helping to pursue debtors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER WYNN THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLECTION AGENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); RECESSION (90%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (73%); FORECLOSURE (70%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (69%); CREDIT BUREAUS (69%); LAWYERS (54%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (50%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ACA INTERNATIONAL (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (53%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



328 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: One Ill Compounds Another, Hammering the Economy

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ; Jad Mouawad contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Almost everything seems to be going wrong for the American economy at once. People are buying less, but most things are costing more. Mortgage rates are rising, the dollar is falling and prices of key commodities like oil are leaping from one record high to the next.
 On Thursday, the dollar plumbed new lows against the Japanese yen and several other major currencies; the price of an ounce of gold jumped above $1,000 for the first time; and lenders raised home loan rates once again. Government figures showed retail sales fell in February as consumers cut back on cars, furniture and electronics.
 Stocks fell sharply after the retail sales report was released early in the day, and a large investment fund said it was nearing collapse. The volatility that has defined the market lately continued unabated. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 2 percent in the morning, then rebounded partly in reaction to a report that said banks were nearing the end of subprime mortgage losses. It was up nearly 1 percent in the afternoon before paring that gain to close up 0.5 percent, to 1,315.48 points. The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 35.5 points, to 12,145.74 points. 
 A toxic blend of economic and financial developments is testing policy makers and lawmakers who are struggling to contain the slump brought on by the collapse of the mortgage market, a downturn that now looks sure to push the economy into a recession. Though current conditions are a far cry from the 1970s, resurgent inflation is raising the threat of stagflation -- a condition in which unemployment and the price of goods and services both rise.
 Since the credit markets began to seize up in August, the steps taken by the Federal Reserve and the rest of the federal government have often bolstered stocks briefly, but so far they have done little to stem the larger downward drift.
 Many specialists say policy makers can do only so much to protect the economy and warn that the government should be careful not to exacerbate inflation and create a new bubble like the one in housing that has burst. Lower interest rates and increased federal spending may not be enough to shore up growth, and some suggest that the only remedy for the pain may be the pain itself. A Standard & Poor's report predicted that subprime mortgage write-downs at banks were nearly done, though losses in other areas might continue.
 ''We have to be careful about what medicines we throw at this, whether it's stimulus packages or a bailout,'' said Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab & Company. ''A lot of what we are dealing with is a solvency problem. We need to let the system wash it out.''
 By this way of thinking, the markets will eventually correct themselves. The housing and mortgage markets will pick up once home prices have fallen far enough to attract buyers. The dollar will keep falling until the weaker exchange rate increases American exports and, in turn, the broader economy. 
 Stocks and bonds will decline until weaker players who rely heavily on borrowed money are driven out of the markets, allowing those who were more conservative to invest cheaply.
 ''It's not a silver lining; it's a platinum lining,'' Carl B. Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics, said about the falling dollar and exports.
 In the past 12 months, the dollar has slid nearly 14 percent against six major world currencies, reaching its lowest levels since the American exchange rate was allowed to float freely in the 1970s. Exports in January, by comparison, were up 16.3 percent from a year earlier; imports were up 10.9 percent.
 On Thursday, one dollar fetched 100.69 yen, the lowest level since the mid-1990s and down 13.4 percent over the last year. The dollar has slipped 8.4 percent against the Chinese yuan and 18.4 percent against the euro.
 The fall of the dollar has contributed to the surge in commodity prices, many specialists say. Oil, foodstuffs and many other raw materials are priced in dollars, and as the currency falls in value, suppliers of these commodities demand higher prices just to stay even.
 The weakness of the dollar partly explains why oil prices have jumped $23 a barrel in the past six weeks alone. Oil futures touched $111 a barrel for the first time on Thursday and settled at $110.33 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, up 41 cents. Gold prices surged past $1,000 a troy ounce but closed at $993.80, up 1.4 percent for the day.
 ''Where do you go?'' said John Kilduff, senior vice president for energy at MF Global in New York. ''Where do investors go? Obviously, they are fleeing the dollar and seeking out hard assets like commodities. And that's pushing up oil prices.''
 For American consumers, the surge in commodity prices comes on top of falling home prices, tightening credit conditions and, lately, a weakening job market. The national average 30-year fixed mortgage rate climbed to 6.13 percent on Thursday, from 6.03 percent a week earlier, according to Freddie Mac. The rate on five-year adjustable rate loans jumped to 5.58 percent, from 5.34 percent.
 It is no wonder, economists say, that retail sales and other measures of consumer spending are falling.
 ''We are nearing levels where it's probably not a great thing for the dollar to keep weakening,'' said David Gilmore, a partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics in Essex, Conn.
 The Federal Reserve's decisions to cut short-term interest rates to 3 percent, from 5.25 percent last year, is one of the biggest factors driving the dollar lower, experts say. Interest rates in Europe and much of Asia are higher, drawing investors to those currencies.
 Policy makers at the Fed have acknowledged concerns about the dollar and inflation but have stressed that they are far more worried about a significant slowdown in economic growth. Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Fed, will give a speech Friday in Washington in which he is expected to provide an update on the central bank's thinking. The Fed is widely expected to reduce interest rates again next week.
 The Fed is in an unenviable position. Even as it has to guard against inflation, parts of the financial system are under severe pressure.
 On Thursday, Carlyle Capital, an affiliate of the private equity firm the Carlyle Group, said that its negotiations with lenders had broken down and that it was in default on $16.6 billion in loans. Carlyle had borrowed the money to buy mortgage securities backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. All appeared well until the prices of those bonds declined and the lenders made a margin call -- a demand that Carlyle put up more collateral to cover the loans.
 Andrew Feltus, a bond fund manager at Pioneer Investments in Boston, said the banks were reducing the amount of money they lend to the financial system. Few investors want to buy in the middle of this process, because they expect even lower prices as funds are forced to sell.
 ''You have not seen the rush to risk at all,'' he said. ''People are still scared.''
 Anthony Lembke, a portfolio manager at MKP Capital Management, a hedge fund, said one of the biggest uncertainties in the bond market is the size of the losses in mortgage securities. Banks and investors are both expected to remain jittery, even about safer investments, until they have a firmer answer.
 ''We have got to get to the bottom of the housing market,'' he said, ''before we know how big the losses are going to be.''
 Bond prices fell as stocks rose Thursday. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note dropped 16/32, to 99 25/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 3.53 percent, from 3.46 percent.
 Following are the results of Thursday's Treasury auction of 10-year notes:

GRAPHIC: GRAPHS: FREDDIE MAC YIELDS: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.) (pg. C7)
EVERYWHERE, SIGNS OF TROUBLE: Stocks and the dollar have fallen sharply since the market peaked on Oct. 9, 2007, while commodity prices have soared. (Source: Bloomberg) (pg. C7)
RETAIL SALES: Total retail and food services sales, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. C7)
TAX-EXEMPT YIELDS: Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly. (Source: The Bond Buyer) (pg. C7)
THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) (pg. C7) Graph showing stock and the dollar plummeting while commodity prices rose. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); RETAIL SALES (75%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (74%)

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB & CO INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



329 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 3093 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
AROUND TOWN
 Museums and Sites
 ST. PATRICK'S DAY FESTIVITIES Sometime during the fifth century, the teenager who would become St. Patrick was captured in his native Britain and forced into slavery in Ireland. He escaped, only to return as a missionary and convert virtually the entire country to Christianity. March 17 -- the day he is said to have died -- was observed first with a feast, then with parades and now with a series of pub crawls featuring drinks tinted a radioactive shade of green. 
 For those in New York looking to celebrate the patron saint of Ireland but who prefer a more entertaining activity than, say, monitoring the shade of your tongue as it progresses from lime to emerald with each successive beer, there are plenty of options. The first, on Sunday, is an open day at the Irish Arts Center. For the seventh year, the center has compiled a free sampler of Irish culture. 
 The day ''allows us to showcase what Irish cultural activities we offer, with the idea of capturing the interest of New Yorkers from all cultural backgrounds,'' said Rachael Gilkey, the office manager for the center. The event includes performances by students at the Niall O'Leary School of Irish Dance and the singer Ashley Davis, whose serenely clear voice recalls that of Enya. There is also an Irish Gaelic class, followed by a conversation hour to test the phrases you've learned. Face painters will be on the premises, but never fear. The daylong event is for people of all ages. 
 Of course, no St. Patrick's Day would be complete without the requisite parade. Brooklyn holds one on Sunday at 1 p.m., proceeding through what's called South Slope to Union Street and back. But that is a mere warm-up for the giant of all parades, the New York City St. Patrick's Day Parade, above, on Monday at 11 a.m. An estimated 100,000 participants will accompany the grand marshal, the sportscaster Tommy Smyth, up Fifth Avenue. 
 After all that marching, if you should happen upon a pub whose napkins are decorated with shamrocks, well then, slainte. (Open day, Sunday from noon to 6:15 p.m., Irish Arts Center, 553 West 51st Street, Manhattan, 212-757-3318, irishartscenter.org; free. Brooklyn parade: Sunday at 1 p.m., Prospect Park West and 15th Street, saintpatricksdayparade.com; free. Manhattan parade: Monday at 11 a.m., Fifth Avenue at 44th Street, nyc-st-patrick-day-parade.org; free.) MONICA DRAKE 
 MERCHANT'S HOUSE MUSEUM, 29 East Fourth Street, East Village. Saturday at 1 and 3 p.m., ''Wearin' o' the Green Tea,'' an afternoon tea followed by a lecture and a tour of the servants' quarters; $40; $30 for members. Monday at 7 p.m., ''Yeats in New York,'' a reading by Simon Loekle, a literary scholar and radio show host for WBAI-FM, 99.5; $20; $10 for students and members. (212) 777-1089; merchantshouse.com. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays, noon to 5 p.m. $8; $5 for students and 65+; free for members and children under 12. 
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street. Through Sunday, ''Manhattan Noon,'' 30 color photographs by Gus Powell, taken during his lunch hour. Through April 13, ''Street Dance: The New York Photographs of Rudy Burckhardt,'' a display of 90 works. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. (212) 534-1672; mcny.org. Suggested admission: $9; $5 for students and 62+; free for children under 12 and for everyone on Sundays, 10 a.m. to noon; $20 for families. 
 NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street. Through Sunday, ''Audubon's Aviary: Portraits of Endangered Species,'' a display of 40 watercolors, with recorded birdcalls and video. Monday at 7 p.m., ''The American Musicals Project Concert Series: Hello Jerry!,'' a tribute to the music of Jerry Herman, with performances by Lee Roy Reams and Karen Munson in the third of four programs celebrating Broadway composers of the 20th century; $30 to $40; (212) 873-3400, Ext. 305. Through April 13, ''Here Is New York: Remembering 9/11/01,'' an exhibition of photographs, artifacts and oral histories documenting the terrorist attack. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; to 8 p.m. on Fridays; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. (212) 873-3400; nyhistory.org. $10; $7 for educators and 65+; $6 for students; free from 6 to 8 p.m. on Fridays; free at all times for children under 12. 
 NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY, Humanities and Social Sciences Research Library. Through June 14, ''John Milton at 400: 'A Life Beyond Life,' '' with portraits; documents that include a first edition of ''Paradise Lost''; and recordings featuring music inspired by Milton's poetry, from classical to heavy metal. Through Sunday, ''Beatific Soul: Jack Kerouac on the Road,'' featuring his diaries, manuscripts, photographs and personal items. Mondays, and Thursdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Tuesdays and Wednesdays, 11 a.m. to 7:30 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. (except March 23). (212) 592-7730; nypl.org. Free.
 NEW YORK TRANSIT MUSEUM, Gallery Annex, Grand Central Terminal, next to the stationmaster's office. Through July 6, ''A Railroad Reborn: Metro-North at 25,'' an exhibition of photographs and artifacts in celebration of the line's 25th anniversary. Mondays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (212) 878-0106. Free. 
 Gardens
 BROOKLYN BOTANIC GARDEN, 1000 Washington Avenue, Prospect Heights. Saturday and Sunday at 1 p.m., free guided tours. Saturday at 3 p.m., the first of a six-part workshop in Chinese brush painting; the entire course is $205, including materials ($189 for members), or $165 without materials ($149 for members); registration required: (718) 623-7220. Conservatory hours through mid-March: Tuesdays through Sundays, and holidays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Grounds hours, Tuesdays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., and Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. (718) 623-7200; bbg.org. $8; $4 for students and 65+; free for under 12 and members at all times and for 65+ on Fridays. Free all day on Tuesdays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to noon. 
 NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN, Bronx River Parkway (Exit 7W) and Fordham Road, Bedford Park, the Bronx. Through April 6, the Orchid Show, with thousands of varieties on display, as well as lectures and gardening demonstrations. Open Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tram tours daily, every 20 minutes. (718) 817-8700, nybg.org. During the Orchid Show, an All-Garden pass is $20; $18 for students and 62+; $7 for children 2 to 12; and free for children under 2. Grounds admission: $6 (Bronx residents, $5); $3 for 62+ and students; $1 for children 2 to 12; and free for under 2. Parking, $12. 
 QUEENS BOTANICAL GARDEN, 43-50 Main Street, Flushing. Sunday, 1 to 3 p.m., ''Lucky Lawn Care,'' a workshop. Tuesdays through Sundays, through March, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Parking, $5 ($3 for members) Saturdays and Sundays only; free weekdays. (718) 886-3800. queensbotanical.org. Free. 
 WAVE HILL, Independence Avenue and West 249th Street, Riverdale, the Bronx. Saturday and Sunday at 1 p.m., a family art project in making a family tree. Sunday at 2 p.m., a performance by the Ying Quartet; $24; $21 for 65+ and students; $15 for members. Advance tickets required: (718) 549-3200, Ext. 385. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., (718) 549-3200, wavehill.org. $6; $3 for students and 65+; $2 for children 6 and older; free for members and under 6; Tuesdays, free all day; Saturdays, free 9 a.m. to noon.
 Events
 ASTROLAND AMUSEMENT PARK OPENING, Sunday at noon, Surf Avenue, at West 10th Street, Coney Island, Brooklyn. The first 100 people in line will receive a free ride on the Cyclone; otherwise, a ride is $6, and a repeat ride, $4. (718) 265-2100; astroland.com. 
 BRONX MUSEUM OF THE ARTS, 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania. Through Aug. 4, ''Making It Together: Women's Collaborative Art and Community,'' an exhibition devoted to female artists. Through July 27, photographs by Jamel Shabazz. (718) 681-6000; bronxmuseum.org. Free. 
 BROOKLYN HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 128 Pierrepont Street, Brooklyn Heights. Through Aug. 31, ''Reflections on Community Development: Stories From Bedford-Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation,'' an exhibition on the area's economic and residential transformation, told with recordings, documents and photographs. Through April 27, ''Lost in Transition: South Brooklyn, Williamsburg and Coney Island,'' an exhibition of photographs by high school students documenting changes in the neighborhoods, as well as works by the photographer Eugene Armbruster. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. $6; $4 for students with ID and 62+; free for children under 12 and members. (718) 222-4111; brooklynhistory.org.
 BROOKLYN PUBLIC LIBRARY, Grand Army Plaza, Flatbush Avenue and Eastern Parkway. Saturday at 4 p.m., a discussion with Paula J. Giddings, author of ''Ida: A Sword Among Lions: Ida B. Wells and the Campaign Against Lynching,'' a biography of the suffragist and anti-lynching crusader. (718) 230-2100; brooklynpubliclibrary.org. Free.
 CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK GRADUATE CENTER, 365 Fifth Avenue, at 34th Street. Through Saturday, ''A Changing Cuba in a Changing World,'' a symposium with panels on its culture, economics and politics. Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5:20 p.m.; Saturday, 9 a.m. to 12:10 p.m. Information: web.gc.cuny.edu/bildnercenter/cuba/program.shtml. Fees: $40 to $95. Monday at 6:30 p.m., a performance of excerpts from an adaptation of Faulkner's novel ''The Sound and the Fury'' by the theater company Elevator Repair Service, followed by a discussion with members of the company and scholars. (212) 817-2005; free. Wednesday at 6:15 p.m., a screening of the documentary ''Eyes of the Holocaust,'' by Janos Szasz, about survivors who were children during the Holocaust. (212) 817-1945; free. 
 JAMES IVORY IN PARIS, a film series, at Gould Hall, 55 East 59th Street, Manhattan. Tuesdays through March 25. This Tuesday, ''Surviving Picasso,'' directed by James Ivory, at 12:30 and 7 p.m. (in English), and 4 and 9:30 p.m., in French with English subtitles. (212) 355-6160; fiaf.org. $10; $7 for students. 
 NATIVE AMERICAN SPRING AUCTION, American Indian Community House, 11 Broadway, near Bowling Green, second floor, Lower Manhattan. Saturday at 7 p.m., with a preview at 6 p.m. Sponsored by the Thunderbird American Indian Dancers. (201) 587-9633. Free. Proceeds from the auction benefit a scholarship fund.
 PIER ANTIQUES SHOW, Pier 94, 12th Avenue and 55th Street, Clinton. Features 500 dealers and includes vintage clothing. Saturday, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. stellashows.com. Daily admission: $15. 
 PRATT INSTITUTE Hazel and Robert Siegel Gallery, Higgins Hall, 61 St. James Place, at Lafayette Avenue, Fort Greene, Brooklyn. Through March 25, ''Drawing Cities,'' an exhibition by the architect James S. Rossant. Daily, 1 to 5 p.m. jamesrossant.com. Free. 
 SNAKES AND LADDERS 2008 -- FESTIVAL OF NEW IRISH MUSIC, Sunday at 7 p.m. and Monday at 12:30 p.m., at the World Financial Center, Winter Garden, 220 Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan. (212) 945-0505; worldfinancialcenter.com. Free. 
 VOELKER ORTH MUSEUM, 149-19 38th Avenue, Flushing, Queens. Sunday at 2 p.m., a celebration of the history and culture of Ireland, with dances, music and food. (718) 359-6227; vomuseum.org. Free.
 Spoken Word
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park. Saturday at 3 p.m., ''Funding a Revolution,'' a panel discussion on women and philanthropy. Sunday at 2 p.m., a screening of ''These Girls,'' a film by the Egyptian-born director Tahani Rached about teenage girls living on the streets of Cairo; a discussion follows the screening. Sunday at 3 p.m., a performance of blues, rock 'n' roll and rhythm and blues by Queen Esther. (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. All events are free with museum admission: $8; $4 for 62+ and children. 
 FORBIDDEN BROADWAY LECTURE, at the Council Senior Center, 241 West 72nd Street, Manhattan. Sunday at 1 p.m., with Gerard Alessandrini, the writer and director of the theatrical productions ''Forbidden Broadway'' and ''Forbidden Hollywood.'' Sponsored by the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged; (212) 273-5304. Donation: $3. 
 92ND STREET Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue. Monday at 8 p.m., ''Letters to a Young Writer: A Celebration of the 92nd Street Y Poetry Center Schools Project, 1988-2008,'' a discussion with the writers Frank McCourt, Jessica Hagedorn, Donald Antrim, Nicole Krauss and Rebecca Pawell; free. Thursday at 8:15 p.m., ''Stand-Up Comedy of the '70s,'' a discussion, with film clips, with the comedians and actors Robert Klein and Richard Belzer; the author and comedy historian Eddy Friedfeld; and the author and editor Richard Zoglin; $26. (212) 415-5500; 92y.org. 
 KGB BAR SUNDAY NIGHT FICTION SERIES, 7 to 9 p.m., at 85 East Fourth Street, East Village. (212) 505-3360. Free. 
 WORDS & MUSIC, a presentation of poetry and music at the Cue Art Foundation, 511 West 25th Street, Chelsea. Friday at 6:30 p.m., with Edwin Torres, a poet, and Wolter Wierbos, a trombonist. Reservations required: (212) 206-2583, cueartfoundation.org. Free. 
 Walking Tours
 ADVENTURE ON A SHOESTRING Saturday at 1 and 3 p.m., ''When Irish Eyes Were Smiling!,'' a walk in Clinton, meeting on the northeast corner of Eighth Avenue and 48th Street. (212) 265-2663. $10.
 A TOUR GROWS IN BROOKLYN, a tour that focuses on brownstone life in Park Slope. Daily at 10 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. (212) 209-3370, brooklynwalkingtour.com. $25; $15 for children; including lunch.
 BIG ONION WALKING TOURS Saturday at 11 a.m. and Monday at 1 p.m., tours of Lower Manhattan that focus on the area's Irish history, each meeting in front of St. Paul's Chapel, on Broadway between Vesey and Fulton Streets. (212) 439-1090. $15; $12 for 63+; $10 for students and New-York Historical Society members. 
 CENTER FOR THE URBAN ENVIRONMENT Two Brooklyn tours. Saturday at 11 a.m., ''The Many Faces of Williamsburg'' visits the area's ethnic enclaves, as well as its art scene, meeting on the south side of Broadway, at Hooper Street. Sunday at 11 a.m., ''Crossing Gowanus'' includes a stop in the Carroll Gardens Historic District garden. (718) 788-8500, Ext. 217. Each tour: $13; $10 for members; $8 for students and 62+. 
 .
 EAST VILLAGE TOURS Lower Manhattan walks. Friday and Saturday at 11 a.m., a tour of the East Village, meeting at the Astor Place Cube. Saturday and Tuesday at 1 p.m., ''Gangsters, Murderers and Weirdos,'' meeting at the northwest corner of Second Avenue and Houston Street. Sunday at 2 p.m., the Five Points section, meeting on the southwest corner of Chambers and Centre Streets. (917) 215-2575, eastvillagetours.com. Each tour: $15; $10 for students. 
 I'LL TAKE MANHATTAN TOURS Saturday at 1 p.m., ''Mansions, Millions and Magnificence,'' a walking tour of the Millionaires' Mile on Fifth Avenue, meeting at the statue of General Sherman, Fifth Avenue and 59th Street. (732) 270-5559. $15. 
 JOYCE GOLD HISTORY TOURS OF NEW YORK Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Hell's Kitchen and Its Vivid Irish Past,'' a tour of the Clinton area, meeting on the northwest corner of 10th Avenue and 42nd Street. (212) 242-5762. $15; $12 for 65+. 
 METRO TOUR SERVICE Friday through Sunday at 2 p.m., visiting Brooklyn Heights, Fort Greene and Clinton Hill, Brooklyn, meeting in front of the Marriott Hotel, Adams and Tillary Streets, downtown Brooklyn; (718) 789-0430. $25.
 MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY Saturday at 2 p.m., ''Park Slope in Winter,'' meeting in Brooklyn in front of the Montauk Club, Eighth Avenue and Lincoln Place. Sunday at 1 p.m., a walk from City Hall Park to the African Burial Ground, meeting at the park, Broadway and Park Row. Monday, ''Irish Footsteps in Old New York'' covers the social, cultural and economic history of Irish immigrants, meeting on the northeast corner of Mulberry and Prince Streets, Lower East Side. (212) 439-1049. Each tour: $15; $12 for members. 
 NEW YORK CITY CULTURAL WALKING TOURS Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Stuyvesant Park Historic District,'' meeting on the northeast corner of 14th Street and First Avenue, East Village. (212) 979-2388. $15.
 NEW YORK TALKS AND WALKS Saturday at 7 p.m., ''Ghosts of the City,'' a Lower Manhattan walk in search of the haunts of former inhabitants, among them slaves, Dutch settlers and well-known writers; meeting inside Blimpie's Restaurant, 38 Park Row. (888) 377-4455. $20 cash; $15 credit card. 
 NYC DISCOVERY TOURS Saturday at 1 p.m. and 3:45 p.m., and Sunday at noon and 2:45 p.m., ''Little Ireland and Little Italy History and Tasting Tour'' visits cultural and gastronomic sites of importance to Irish and Italian immigration, with a sampling of holiday treats. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 465-3331. $20, including food.
 SHOREWALKERS Saturday at 9 a.m., ''The Bridges and Waterways of New York's Central Park,'' from the southwest tip of the park to the Harlem Meer, meeting at the entrance to the atrium of the Time Warner Center, Columbus Circle and 59th Street; (917) 912-9533. Sunday at 9:15 a.m., a walk on Staten Island along the Kull von Kill to the Bayonne Bridge, meeting at the Staten Island Ferry terminal in Lower Manhattan, on the left upper deck near the benches; (212) 713-7769, Shorewalkers.org. Each tour, $3.
 STREET SMARTS N.Y. Saturday at 2 p.m., ''Stanford White: Splendor and Scandal'' visits buildings designed by that architect, meeting at the Washington Arch. (212) 969-8262. $10. Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Ghosts on Broadway,'' with visits to a haunted hotel and the New Amsterdam Theater, meeting in front of the Belasco Theater at the corner of West 44th Street and Avenue of the Americas. (212) 969-8262. Each tour, $10.
 UNION SQUARE: CROSSROADS OF NEW YORK, Saturdays at 2 p.m., a tour that focuses on the political history of the area, meeting by the statue of Abraham Lincoln near the 16th Street transverse. Sponsored by the Union Square Partnership and Big Onion Walking Tours. (212) 517-1826, unionsquarenyc.org. Free. 
 Recreation
 CENTRAL PARK CHALLENGE, Saturday, with three eight-kilometer runs. An open run for all begins at 7:30 a.m., followed by a men's championship run at 9, and a women's invitational run at 9:30. All begin on the East Drive at 102nd Street, reachable from 97th Street and Fifth Avenue. Sponsored by the New York Road Runners. (212) 860-4455, nyrr.org. Advance registration: $30; $20 for members; $14 for 18 and younger and 62+. Race-day registration: $35; $25 for members; $15 for 18 and younger and 62+.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CHRISTIAN HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (89%); SLAVERY (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); TEA (75%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); RELIGION (72%); DANCE (68%); DANCE EDUCATION (66%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) IRELAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



330 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; HAVENS ELLICOTTVILLE, N.Y.; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: A Laid-Back Village With Lots of Snow and Comfort

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

 BODY:
WHEN Greg Dekdebrun was a teenager, his mother used to drive him to the Greyhound station in Buffalo on Friday nights in winter and put him on the bus for the 45-minute trip to Ellicottville, where his father, who owned three ski shops in Buffalo, had opened a small shop in the nascent ski resort.
 ''This was the 1960s, not all that long ago, and it was just a little weekend village here,'' said Mr. Dekdebrun, who now owns that shop. ''I would come down here and sleep on a bench in the ski shop, then do the rentals Saturday morning, then walk out to the slopes myself and ski in the afternoon. My family would come down Sunday. 
 ''It was that kind of place. In some ways, it still is.'' 
 Ellicottville may have only two ski areas -- HoliMont and Holiday Valley -- and a five-block downtown, but it is venerated by its partisans like Mr. Dekdebrun. In the last few years, many of those partisans have come from Ontario, particularly east of Toronto, to buy second homes.
 Kieron Hayes, who lives outside Toronto, started coming to Ellicottville five years ago. It's just two hours from his home, even counting delays at the border, and has better ski conditions. 
 ''It is warmer and less windy than Collingwood,'' he said, referring to a ski area north of Toronto, ''and the lift lines are more efficient.''
 Then came the rise in the Canadian dollar, which gave Mr. Hayes a reason to look at properties. He hasn't found the right place yet, but that's his goal. 
 ''We have a baby, so we're looking at coming here for at least 15 or 20 years,'' he said. ''So buying makes a lot of sense, With the economy down in the States and the dollar so good here, there will be no better time than this to get a place here.''
 Brian McFadden, executive director of the Ellicottville Chamber of Commerce, estimates that 30 to 40 percent of new buyers of second homes in Ellicottville are Canadian.
 ''They have always been coming here to ski, but now they are buyers,'' he said. ''We used to be just for people from Western New York, close-in Ontario and out maybe to Pittsburgh and Cleveland's suburbs. Now, people come from a little farther, out to almost Indiana.''
 Gail and Steve Grillo didn't want to have a long drive to get away from their hectic lives. They live in Bradford, Pa., about 40 miles south of Ellicottville.
 ''We have friends who have places in the Adirondacks, and it seems to be a chore just to get there,'' Ms. Grillo said. ''My husband and I work really hard, and we know we can get in a car and go an hour and be in someplace where we have no mail and only a cellphone.''
 They bought a small town house in Ellicottville for less than $100,000 in 1993, when their sons were young. Last year, with their sons in their early 20s, and their town house having more than doubled in value, they moved up to a new $400,000, three-bedroom, four-bath house within a few blocks of downtown.
 ''At night in the winter, you can see all the lights twinkling from downtown from several levels,'' Ms. Grillo said, ''and the ski slope is just out back.'' 
 The Scene
 Dina DiPasquale's parents had a second home in Ellicottville in the 1970s, when she was a child, but when it came time for college, she wanted to stray a bit farther from her home in Buffalo.
 ''I went out to Colorado, basically to ski,'' she said. But by 1988, she wanted to be closer to her family. ''I didn't want to be in Buffalo, so Ellicottville made sense.'' 
 She first became a ski instructor, then opened a catering business. Now she owns Dina's, a chic restaurant along Washington Street, the main drag.
 ''It is an easy place to live,'' she said. ''Everyone knows everyone else, and everyone wants to help each other out.'' 
 Ellicottville has become more of a year-round outdoor destination, but its ski slopes are still the main draws. HoliMont is a private ski resort that has 1,500 members who ply 52 runs that are served by nine lifts. 
 Holiday Valley is similar in size, and sits about two miles south. Since it is in the southern part of the lake-effect region near Buffalo, Ellicottville almost always gets a lot of snow; it has gotten about 140 inches so far this season. 
 In the last decade, though, Ellicottville has tried to do more when there's no snow on the ground. The walls in Mr. McFadden's office are covered with posters for events like March Mardi Gras Weekend, a jazz festival and the September Rock 'n' Oldies Weekend.
 ''There is plenty of opportunity to come here, and we find more than enough to do,'' said Louis Condotta, a construction manager who lives with his wife, Christine, and their two daughters outside Toronto. The Condottas bought a three-bedroom, one-and-a-half-bath condo a mile outside the village two years ago for $130,000.
 ''I had been skiing here for 22 years, so I knew I liked it, and we had a baby, so we knew we were good for coming here for at least 15 more years,'' he said. ''There are parks all over the place, and we can walk to the village to get a quick bite to eat''
 Pros
 Ellicottville is accessible, less than an hour from Buffalo, and within three hours of Pittsburgh, Cleveland and Toronto. 
 Also, housing prices are low compared with those in similar villages in the Adirondacks, Catskills, Berkshires or Poconos.
 Cons
 The village is small. And while it has one of everything, there is not much variety when it comes to eating and shopping. The skiing is good and varied, but it isn't Vail or Aspen.
 The Real Estate Market
 Given the great number of Canadians drawn to Ellicottville, real estate prices have continued to rise. But by the standards of Eastern New York, prices are still reasonable. 
 Joany Klopp Bund, of Holiday Valley Realty, said a one-bedroom condominium can be bought for as little as $110,000, and that even high-end, three-bedroom condos near the ski resorts will only cost in the $400,000-to-$500,000 range.
 ''This is a place people go for comfort, for family, not for luxury,'' she said. ''They want a view of the valley or the slopes. They want a place to entertain a bit, but nothing fancy.''
 Most three- or four-bedroom houses, the average size for second homes here, will go for $300,000 to $400,000, usually on half-acre lots, local real estate agents say. Even in the most desirable areas, near the ski slopes, houses with a view and four or five bedrooms will still only cost $500,000 to $800,000.
 The few houses that are for sale at $1 million or more are spectacular, said Cathleen Pritchard of Century 21 Town & Country. 
 ''Someone bought an old chalet on a beautiful lot for $545,000, tore it down and built a 7,000-square-foot log home with seven bedrooms and five baths,'' she said. ''That might be $1.5 million.''
 LAY OF THE LAND
 POPULATION 1,862, according to a 2006 estimate by the Census Bureau.
 SIZE 45 square miles.
 WHO'S BUYING More and more Canadians, who have long gone there to ski. Historically, most second-home buyers were from Western New York and Pennsylvania, but now people from Ohio and eastern Indiana are arriving.
 GETTING THERE Ellicottville is about a 45-minute drive south of Buffalo, on Route 219. Interstate 86 passes near the town to the south. It is also possible to fly into Buffalo Niagara International Airport and make the drive.
 WHILE YOU'RE LOOKING Bush Bed and Breakfast (5286 Route 353, Little Valley; 716-938-6106; www.bushbedandbreakfast.com), near Route 242, has rooms with Victorian period furniture for $75 to $125 a night in ski season, and for $60 to $100 in the off-season. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 21, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Friday with the Havens column, about Ellicottville, N.Y., and its two ski areas, misstated the name of the ski resort shown. It is Holiday Valley -- not HoliMont, the other resort mentioned in the column.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MAIN DRAW: Skiers relax at HoliMont, one of two resorts that are attracting families to Ellicottville, south of Buffalo.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG BENZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP Map details area of Ellicottville 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTING GOODS STORES (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); SKIING (90%); MOUNTAINS (77%); RESORTS (72%); CURRENCIES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



331 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1771 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

 BODY:
AROUND TOWN
 Museums and Sites
 MERCHANT'S HOUSE MUSEUM, 29 East Fourth Street, East Village. Saturday at 1 and 3 p.m., ''Wearin' o' the Green Tea,'' an afternoon tea followed by a lecture and a tour of the servants' quarters; $40; $30 for members. Monday at 7 p.m., ''Yeats in New York,'' a reading by Simon Loekle, a literary scholar and radio show host for WBAI-FM, 99.5; $20; $10 for students and members. (212) 777-1089; merchantshouse.com. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays, noon to 5 p.m. $8; $5 for students and 65+; free for members and children under 12. 
 NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street. Through Sunday, ''Audubon's Aviary: Portraits of Endangered Species,'' a display of 40 watercolors, with recorded birdcalls and video. Monday at 7 p.m., ''The American Musicals Project Concert Series: Hello Jerry!,'' a tribute to the music of Jerry Herman, with performances by Lee Roy Reams and Karen Munson in the third of four programs celebrating Broadway composers of the 20th century; $30 to $40; (212) 873-3400, Ext. 305. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; to 8 p.m. on Fridays; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. (212) 873-3400; nyhistory.org. $10; $7 for educators and 65+; $6 for students; free from 6 to 8 p.m. on Fridays; free at all times for children under 12. 
 NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY, Humanities and Social Sciences Research Library. Through Sunday, ''Beatific Soul: Jack Kerouac on the Road,'' featuring his diaries, manuscripts, photographs and personal items. Mondays, and Thursdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Tuesdays and Wednesdays, 11 a.m. to 7:30 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. (except March 23). (212) 592-7730; nypl.org. Free.
 Gardens
 NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN, Bronx River Parkway (Exit 7W) and Fordham Road, Bedford Park, the Bronx. Includes 48 gardens and plant collections. Through April 6, the Orchid Show, with thousands of varieties on display, as well as lectures and gardening demonstrations. Open Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tram tours daily, every 20 minutes. (718) 817-8700, nybg.org. During the Orchid Show, an All-Garden pass is $20; $18 for students and 62+; $7 for children 2 to 12; and free for children under 2. Grounds admission: $6 (Bronx residents, $5); $3 for 62+ and students; $1 for children 2 to 12; and free for under 2. Parking, $12. 
 QUEENS BOTANICAL GARDEN, 43-50 Main Street, Flushing. Sunday, 1 to 3 p.m., ''Lucky Lawn Care,'' a workshop. Tuesdays through Sundays, through March, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Parking, $5 ($3 for members)Saturdays and Sundays; free on weekdays. (718) 886-3800. queensbotanical.org. Free. 
 WAVE HILL, Independence Avenue and West 249th Street, Riverdale, the Bronx. Saturday and Sunday at 1 p.m., a family art project in making a family tree. Sunday at 2 p.m., a performance by the Ying Quartet; $24; $21 for 65+ and students; $15 for members. Advance tickets required: (718) 549-3200, Ext. 385. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., (718) 549-3200, wavehill.org. $6; $3 for students and 65+; $2 for children 6 and older; free for members and under 6; Tuesdays, free all day; Saturdays, free 9 a.m. to noon.
 Events
 ASTROLAND AMUSEMENT PARK OPENING, Sunday at noon, Surf Avenue, at West 10th Street, Coney Island, Brooklyn. The first 100 people in line will receive a free ride on the Cyclone; otherwise, a ride is $6, and a repeat ride, $4. (718) 265-2100; astroland.com. 
 BROOKLYN PUBLIC LIBRARY, Grand Army Plaza, Flatbush Avenue and Eastern Parkway. Saturday at 4 p.m., a discussion with Paula J. Giddings, author of ''Ida: A Sword Among Lions: Ida B. Wells and the Campaign Against Lynching,'' a biography of the suffragist and anti-lynching crusader. (718) 230-2100; brooklynpubliclibrary.org. Free.
 CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK GRADUATE CENTER, 365 Fifth Avenue, at 34th Street. Through Saturday, ''A Changing Cuba in a Changing World,'' a symposium with panels on its culture, economics and politics. Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5:20 p.m.; Saturday, 9 a.m. to 12:10 p.m. Information: web.gc.cuny.edu/bildnercenter/cuba/program.shtml. Fees: $40 to $95. Monday at 6:30 p.m., a performance of excerpts from an adaptation of Faulkner's novel ''The Sound and the Fury'' by the theater company Elevator Repair Service, followed by a discussion with members of the company and scholars. (212) 817-2005; free. Wednesday at 6:15 p.m., a screening of the documentary ''Eyes of the Holocaust,'' by Janos Szasz, about survivors who were children during the Holocaust. (212) 817-1945; free. 
 NATIVE AMERICAN SPRING AUCTION, American Indian Community House, 11 Broadway, near Bowling Green, second floor, Lower Manhattan. Saturday at 7 p.m., with a preview at 6 p.m. Sponsored by the Thunderbird American Indian Dancers. (201) 587-9633. Free. Proceeds from the auction benefit a scholarship fund.
 PIER ANTIQUES SHOW, Pier 94, 12th Avenue and 55th Street, Clinton. Features 500 dealers and includes vintage clothing. Saturday, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. stellashows.com. Daily admission: $15. 
 PRATT INSTITUTE Hazel and Robert Siegel Gallery, Higgins Hall, 61 St. James Place, at Lafayette Avenue, Fort Greene, Brooklyn. Through March 25, ''Drawing Cities,'' an exhibition by the architect James S. Rossant. Daily, 1 to 5 p.m. jamesrossant.com. Free. 
 SNAKES AND LADDERS 2008 -- FESTIVAL OF NEW IRISH MUSIC, Sunday at 7 p.m. and Monday at 12:30 p.m., at the World Financial Center, Winter Garden, 220 Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan. (212) 945-0505; worldfinancialcenter.com. Free. 
 VOELKER ORTH MUSEUM, 149-19 38th Avenue, Flushing, Queens. Sunday at 2 p.m., a celebration of the history and culture of Ireland, with dances, music and food. (718) 359-6227; vomuseum.org. Free.
 Spoken Word
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park. Saturday at 3 p.m., ''Funding a Revolution,'' a panel discussion on women and philanthropy. Sunday at 2 p.m., a screening of ''These Girls,'' a film by the Egyptian-born director Tahani Rached about teenage girls living on the streets of Cairo; a discussion follows the screening. Sunday at 3 p.m., a performance of blues, rock 'n' roll and rhythm and blues by Queen Esther. (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. All events are free with museum admission: $8; $4 for 62+ and children. 
 92ND STREET Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue. Monday at 8 p.m., ''Letters to a Young Writer: A Celebration of the 92nd Street Y Poetry Center Schools Project, 1988-2008,'' a discussion with the writers Frank McCourt, Jessica Hagedorn, Donald Antrim, Nicole Krauss and Rebecca Pawell; free. Thursday at 8:15 p.m., ''Stand-Up Comedy of the '70s,'' a discussion, with film clips, with the comedians and actors Robert Klein and Richard Belzer; the author and comedy historian Eddy Friedfeld; and the author and editor Richard Zoglin; $26. (212) 415-5500; 92y.org. 
 Walking Tours
 ADVENTURE ON A SHOESTRING Saturday at 1 and 3 p.m., ''When Irish Eyes Were Smiling!,'' a walk in Clinton, meeting on the northeast corner of Eighth Avenue and 48th Street. (212) 265-2663. $10.
 BIG ONION WALKING TOURS Saturday at 11 a.m. and Monday at 1 p.m., tours of Lower Manhattan that focus on the area's Irish history, each meeting in front of St. Paul's Chapel, on Broadway between Vesey and Fulton Streets. (212) 439-1090. $15; $12 for 63+; $10 for students and New-York Historical Society members. 
 CENTER FOR THE URBAN ENVIRONMENT Two Brooklyn tours. Saturday at 11 a.m., ''The Many Faces of Williamsburg,'' meeting on the south side of Broadway, at Hooper Street. Sunday at 11 a.m., ''Crossing Gowanus'' includes a stop in the Carroll Gardens Historic District, meeting in front of the drugstore on the corner of Smith and President Streets. (718) 788-8500, Ext. 217. Each, $13; $10 for members; $8 for students and 62+. 
 I'LL TAKE MANHATTAN TOURS Saturday at 1 p.m., ''Mansions, Millions and Magnificence,'' a walking tour of the Millionaires' Mile on Fifth Avenue, meeting at the statue of General Sherman, Fifth Avenue and 59th Street. (732) 270-5559. $15. 
 JOYCE GOLD HISTORY TOURS OF NEW YORK Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Hell's Kitchen and Its Vivid Irish Past,'' a tour of the Clinton area, meeting on the northwest corner of 10th Avenue and 42nd Street. (212) 242-5762. $15; $12 for 65+. 
 MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY Sunday at 1 p.m., a walk from City Hall Park to the African Burial Ground, meeting at the park, Broadway and Park Row. Monday at 2 p.m., ''Irish Footsteps in Old New York'' covers the social, cultural and economic history of Irish immigrants, meeting on the northeast corner of Mulberry and Prince Streets, Lower East Side. (212) 439-1049. Each, $15; $12 for members. 
 NEW YORK CITY CULTURAL WALKING TOURS Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Stuyvesant Park Historic District,'' meeting on the northeast corner of 14th Street and First Avenue, East Village. (212) 979-2388. $15.
 NEW YORK TALKS AND WALKS Saturday at 7 p.m., ''Ghosts of the City,'' a Lower Manhattan walk in search of the haunts of former inhabitants, among them slaves, Dutch settlers and well-known writers; meeting inside Blimpie's Restaurant, 38 Park Row. (888) 377-4455. $20 cash; $15 credit card. 
 NYC DISCOVERY TOURS Saturday at 1 p.m. and 3:45 p.m., and Sunday at noon and 2:45 p.m., ''Little Ireland and Little Italy History and Tasting Tour'' visits cultural and gastronomic sites of importance to Irish and Italian immigration, with a sampling of treats. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 465-3331. $20, including food.
 SHOREWALKERS Saturday at 9 a.m., ''The Bridges and Waterways of New York's Central Park,'' from the southwest tip of the park to the Harlem Meer, meeting at the entrance to the atrium of the Time Warner Center, Columbus Circle and 59th Street; (917) 912-9533. Sunday at 9:15 a.m., a walk on Staten Island along the Kull von Kill to the Bayonne Bridge, meeting at the Staten Island Ferry terminal in Lower Manhattan, on the left upper deck near the benches; (212) 713-7769, Shorewalkers.org. Each, $3.
 Recreation
 CENTRAL PARK CHALLENGE, Saturday, with three eight-kilometer runs. An open run for all begins at 7:30 a.m., followed by a men's championship run at 9, and a women's invitational run at 9:30. All begin on the East Drive at 102nd Street, reachable from 97th Street and Fifth Avenue. Sponsored by the New York Road Runners. (212) 860-4455, nyrr.org. Advance registration: $30; $20 for members; $14 for 18 and younger and 62+. Race-day registration: $35; $25 for members; $15 for 18 and younger and 62+.
 Information about events to be considered for inclusion in Spare Times can be sent to weekend@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (89%); HISTORY (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); LIBRARIES (76%); LITERATURE (76%); MUSIC (76%); BIRDS (73%); MUSICAL THEATER (72%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (70%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (67%); GARDENING (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



332 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Gold Glitters, Dollar Loses Its Luster

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
How low can the dollar go?
 Battered by bad news and mounting fears over the American economy, the dollar plumbed new depths on Thursday, helping drive oil prices to record levels. The greenback traded at a new low of $1.56 against the euro, while oil prices settled at $110 a barrel. Early in the day, the dollar sank below 100 Japanese yen for the first time since 1995, but it ended the day slightly above that milestone.
 The dollar has been declining in value against the euro and several other currencies since 2002, slamming travelers to Europe and American consumers purchasing European goods. Politicians are deploring the weak dollar as a sign of American economic decline and influence.
 To make matters worse, many economists say that the problems of a sagging dollar are feeding off each other. As the dollar weakens, holders of dollars, especially those overseas, are aiming for better returns on their assets by diversifying their portfolios toward other currencies, sending the dollar into further decline. 
 ''If we look forward, we are going to see the U.S. economy weakening more and interest rates cut more,'' said Desmond Lachman, a resident fellow at the conservative American Enterprise Institute. ''The immediate prospects for the dollar don't look encouraging.''
 The huge American trade deficit, while shrinking somewhat, continues to generate more dollar reserves for overseas exporters at a time when it is less attractive for them to keep those reserves in dollars. Some Middle East countries are hinting that they may move away from pricing their oil entirely in dollars, which would cause further downward pressure.
 And as the Federal Reserve cuts interest rates to jolt the economy, investors are more likely to move money to securities in other currencies to get higher returns.
 Kenneth S. Rogoff, the Harvard economist, said he sees the main forces behind the dollar's fall as declining American interest rates and the continuing trade imbalance.
 ''This was coming eventually with or without a recession,'' Mr. Rogoff said. ''I think every big player -- including central banks, the pension funds and funds outside the United States -- has been looking to diversify out of dollars gradually over a long period. They are not doing it all at once, but the process has accelerated.''
 The dollar's decline is stirring some fresh tensions with Europe, which is keeping interest rates steady even as it experiences a drop in exports to the United States and other countries whose currencies are more closely aligned with the dollar. 
 Yet Europe also has a silver lining. It has not been hit by skyrocketing oil prices because oil is priced in dollars and the dollar's decline has kept oil prices down when translated into euros. 
 This week, in a widely noticed comment, Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank, said that ''we are concerned about excessive exchange rate moves'' and that ''excessive volatility and disorderly movements'' of currencies were ''undesirable for economic growth.''
 Mr. Lachman said that Mr. Trichet's comment sent signals that if the dollar continued to plummet against the euro, the United States might well agree with European finance ministries to some kind of intervention to keep it from falling further. 
 While the Reagan administration once helped arrange currency deals when the dollar was too strong, the Bush administration has sent every signal that it does not believe in such interventions. Not only are President Bush and Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. opposed philosophically to trying to influence currency markets, there is also the concern that any overt support for the dollar might backfire, igniting a panic sell-off of more dollars.
 Mr. Paulson repeatedly states that ''a strong dollar is in America's interest'' and the best way to keep the dollar strong is to have a strong American economy. In November he said that the robust fundamentals of the economy would eventually ''shine through,'' attracting investors and pushing the dollar back up.
 But many experts scoff at Mr. Paulson's pronouncements as happy talk. Warren E. Buffett, the financier, said recently that ''the government can talk about how it's in our interest to have a strong dollar,'' but it is not following policies that would help. 
 The trade deficit, he argues, means that ''we force-feed a couple of billion dollars a day to the rest of the world'' -- namely to those countries that export to the United States.
 Lately the administration has been pointing to trade figures showing that the American trade deficit is declining. Exports grew more than 12 percent last year, and they grew more than 13 percent in the 12 months that ended in January. The trade deficit was more than 5 percent smaller for that time period as a result.
 Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez hailed the latest trade numbers as a reflection of improving American competitiveness. What he and other administration officials never say -- indeed they have apparently been instructed not to say it -- is that the improvement is a result of the dollar's decline, which makes American goods cheaper.
 The reason, administration officials say, is that they do not want to be accused of ''talking down the dollar'' and undercutting Mr. Paulson's ''strong dollar'' mantra.
 The administration's situation has resulted in an even more contorted set of policies relating to energy.
 President Bush has appealed to oil-producing countries to increase the flow of oil to put a damper on oil prices. He has been repeatedly rebuffed, however, as oil ministers from the Persian Gulf charge that rising oil prices result more from American economic mismanagement than from constricted supplies of oil.
 Many oil experts agree. According to Daniel Yergin, who runs Cambridge Energy Research Associates, the price of oil for Europeans is still roughly what it was last year. What is causing oil prices to surge, he said, is low American interest rates that are being pushed down in hopes of avoiding a recession. While global demand has indeed grown, those low rates have also spurred an investor rush to commodities, especially oil contracts. 
 ''There's a new player in the oil market -- the Federal Reserve,'' Mr. Yergin said. ''Not because it wants to push up oil prices, but as a consequence of its lowering interest rates to stimulate the U.S. economy.''
 How much further will the dollar plunge? The consensus is that it has a way to go, in part because China and other Asian exporters are still buying dollars to suppress the value of their own currencies, so they can continue pumping out exports to the United States.
 The International Monetary Fund, which monitors currency fluctuations at the behest of its 185 member countries, rates both the dollar and the euro as on the ''strong side'' because of Chinese currency practices keeping the value of the yuan low.
 The fear of some economists is that, as the dollar declines, there could be a panic sell-off. But most experts doubt such a panic would occur, because it would be in nobody's interest, least of all investors who are holding dollar-based investments.
 For all its problems, the dollar is still widely seen as the world's safest currency.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In El Alto, Bolivia, a bank ad reads: ''If the dollar goes down, save in Euros.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUAN KARITA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. C6)
Top left, The dollar's fall and gold's rise were felt at a gas station in Seattle where prices were being changed, Top right, the Tokyo foreign exchange market. Bottom left, a shopper at Wal-Mart in Turnersville, N.J. Bottom right, a shop in Bangkok's Chinatown, where gold bars were being sold. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ELAINE THOMPSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS, TOP LEFT
SHIZUO KAMBAYASHI/ASSOCIATED PRESS, TOP RIGHT
MEL EVANS/ASSOCIATED PRESS, BOTTOM LEFT
 SUKREE SUKPLANG/REUTERS, BOTTOM RIGHT) (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (92%); CURRENCIES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); EURO (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); INTEREST RATES (87%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RECESSION (78%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); PENSION FUNDS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (60%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (55%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (92%); THAILAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BOLIVIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



333 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: Art in Review

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
WINE, WORSHIP
 and Sacrifice
 The Golden Graves of Ancient Vani
 Institute for the Study of the Ancient World
 15 East 84th Street, Manhattan
 Through June 1
 It turns out that the story of Jason and the Argonauts has some basis in fact. Ancient Greeks did sail across the sea -- the Black Sea -- to Colchis (modern-day Georgia), a land rich in gold and other precious metals. It seems the Colchians had a technique, involving sheepskins, for extracting gold dust from running water -- hence, the Golden Fleece. 
 Now a tantalizing glimpse of Colchian civilization can be had in ''Wine, Worship and Sacrifice: The Golden Graves of Ancient Vani,'' a small inaugural exhibition at the Institute for the Study of the Ancient World. The institute was founded in 2006 by the philanthropist and art collector Shelby White as a scholarly research center, under the auspices of New York University. This exhibition was organized in collaboration with the Smithsonian Institution's Freer and Sackler galleries with help from the Georgian National Museum, which lent all the objects in the show. 
 In two small galleries the exhibition presents more than 100 objects unearthed on the site of Vani, a major Colchian city founded in the eighth century B.C. There is beautiful, intricate gold jewelry that once adorned the bodies of luminaries in their graves, where they were buried with many possessions, including slaves and pets. Wine vessels were commonly found in graves, too, as wine production and consumption were central to the Colchian economy.
 Besides highlighting funerary customs, the exhibition demonstrates what a cosmopolitan city Vani had been. It presents artifacts that were evidently produced locally, like three haunting bronze stick figures wearing miniature gold jewelry, and also imported objects like a diminutive bronze representing a satyr in the classic Hellenistic style.
 Two striking bronze lamps or incense burners have functional elements shaped like elephant heads. In one, the heads are realized in a semi-abstract, almost geometric style. In the other, they are rendered so realistically that it is easy to identify them as Indian rather than African elephants.
 The star of the show is a life-size bronze torso of a young man whose classical lines suggest a Greek origin. Metallurgical analysis of the sculpture, which was created in the second century B.C., proved that it was actually made in Colchis, which means some highly sophisticated artists once lived there. KEN JOHNSON
 STEVE WHEELER
 In Context
 David Findlay Jr. Fine Art
 41 East 57th Street, Manhattan
 Through March 22
 This lively exhibition sheds more light on Steve Wheeler (1912-92), a contemporary of Philip Guston (1913-80), who offered among the sharper alternatives to Abstract Expressionism. 
 Wheeler's work started to resurface about 15 years ago. In the face of AbEx's big scale, open gestures and abstract purity, he cultivated tightly wound geometries that were fiery in color, finely diced and full of hints of disjointed figures and faces. His style -- sometimes called Indian Space Painting -- took cues from Northwest Coast Indian and Pre-Columbian art, comic books and European masters like Klee and Miro. The free-flowing pixelated compositions, while full of angles, owe something to automatist drawing.
 This exhibition surrounds Wheeler's paintings and drawings with works from the late 1930s to the early '60s, done by 14 of his contemporaries. A loose-limbed automatist work by Roberto Matta hangs next to a mosaiclike relief by Alfonso Ossorio; both have connective tissue with Wheeler's obsessive compositions. The idiosyncratic geometries of Stuart Davis -- which breathe in a way that Wheeler's don't -- are acknowledged as a possible influence, especially on three little-known, more open Wheeler works from the early 1940s.
 Other artists who have Indian Space moments are well represented: Will Barnet, Howard Daum, Gertrude Barrer, Peter Busa and especially Richard Pousette-Dart, working boldly in turquoise on white. Byron Browne anticipates late (figurative) Jackson Pollock in a small 1947 work painted in black over jewel-like colors.
 Such company makes the singular intensity and consistency of Wheeler's art palpable, but also clarifies his limitations by bringing out its airless, puzzlelike rigidity. This may be why a small, vibrant watercolor from the late '40s by Mr. Barnet provides such pleasure. It was dashed off on a mailer from a men's shop, Casual Aire, and it easily lives up to the advertising. ROBERTA SMITHMEG WEBSTER
 Paula Cooper Gallery
 465 West 23rd Street, Chelsea
 Through March 22
 In Meg Webster's first New York show since 2000, her interest in nature continues, but her materials are not as raw as before. Full of crisp edges and shiny surfaces, the pieces here form a parable about the environment.
 A video of a starving polar bear on a tiny screen sets the stage. Next comes a work on paper that uses cement as paint, similar to earlier monochromes Ms. Webster made with organic materials like pollen and egg yolk. The narrow, tapering ''Nose Cone Vessel'' is stainless steel, five feet tall and filled to the brim with water, a cornucopia that suggests a missile repurposed for peacetime use. ''Titanium Hemisphere,'' 21 inches across, contrasts the perfection of manufactured materials with the idea of the planet as a depleted shell.
 ''Melted Weapon Box'' is a small open box made of steel, lined with a second box made of aluminum, displayed alongside an actual-size black-and-white photograph of an M-4 assault rifle; the boxes are cast from the melted weapon. Finally, ''Contained Asphalt,'' a three-sided glass column, 52 inches tall and filled with gleaming black asphalt, reminds us of the material that each day covers more and more of the earth's surface, heating it up and threatening flora and fauna. Back to the polar bear.
 These works, which move from white through grays to black, may make more sense together than apart, but their sculptural elegance and conceptual economy bring a new clarity to Ms. Webster's work. ROBERTA SMITH 
 EDGAR BRYAN
 Zach Feuer
 530 West 24th Street, Chelsea
 Through March 22
 Edgar Bryan's first New York solo show is so low-key that it must be trying to prove something. Deft subtlety disguised as wry, inept wistfulness has always been Mr. Bryan's strength. Here he aims it at painting as a bravura activity; New York debuts as aggressive declarations; and oil paint as female flesh. Anyway, he's using acrylic.
 Perhaps to come across as the anti-Currin or the un-Balthus, Mr. Bryan concentrates on two of painting's oldest subjects, the female nude and the still life, the latter using only vases and jugs. Both kinds of ''vessels'' seem made up, or borrowed from comic books, along with the alternately pale and saturated off-key palette.
 Essential to the look: using as little paint as possible. Therein lies the bravura. Colors, when present, are mostly stained. The characteristically scrawny, awkwardly posed young woman in ''The Sword'' is not only nude; she's also nearly paint-free. She both shoulders a large water jug (as in Corot) and holds a sword (as in Poussin). But the jug's narrow neck, black-to-red glaze and teal highlight is more 1950s Los Angeles than French Academy in Rome.
 The conversation among painted, unpainted and glazed is constant. Objects tend to dominate, in both the titles and on the ground. In ''The Black Vase'' they hem in an akimbo nude who seems to be trying to touch the top and bottom edges as if to meet compositional obligations.
 In the end you may find yourself watching Mr. Bryan's every move in these sweet, sharp meditations. A self-portrait shows the artist crouching at a toy easel, working on a small, relatively thick-surfaced abstraction. The work personifies his central oxymoron: sincere irony. ROBERTA SMITH 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A figurine from ancient Georgia at the Institute for the Study of the Ancient World.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGIAN NATIONAL MUSEUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); CLASSICS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); JEWELRY (89%); MAMMALS (88%); FINE JEWELRY (76%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (74%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); WINERIES (74%); SCULPTURE (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); EXTRACTIVE METALLURGY (71%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (68%); ART COLLECTING (68%); CITY LIFE (65%); CONSUMPTION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); GEORGIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



334 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; SINGAPORE JOURNAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Terror Suspect Eludes Posse Of 4 Million

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: SINGAPORE 

 BODY:
The big mistake, officials here say, was letting the terrorist suspect make a trip to the bathroom.
 Mas Selamat bin Kastari, alleged by the government to be the leader of a terrorist group here, escaped from a high-security prison two weeks ago while taking a bathroom break, in a major embarrassment for this efficient, tightly battened city-state.
 In a furious response, the government put the entire country on alert, setting up checkpoints, sealing its borders, patrolling its parks and its shores, even urging people to keep an eye on their bicycles in case the wanted man decided to pedal to freedom. 
 With each new empty-handed day the embarrassment deepens as Singapore confronts its Tora Bora moment, its most-wanted terrorist suspect melting into the urban terrain, as Osama bin Laden evaded American troops in Afghanistan. 
 For some people here, this noisy, flailing search -- even more than the escape itself -- has cast Singapore in an unfamiliar light of haplessness. 
 ''We had all bought into the image of a well-organized government machinery,'' wrote Alex Au, author of a popular political Web site called Yawning Bread. ''Suddenly, our picture of Singapore as a kind of Big Brother state is, well, full of holes.'' 
 All around the city, police officers are on patrol and their checkpoints have delayed traffic for as much as 15 hours in some places, according to newspaper reports. 
 Security officers on boats and Jet Skis are patrolling the coastline and the police have removed keys from the ignitions of unattended motor boats. 
 In what one newspaper called ''extensive land, sea and air searches,'' military officers in jungle fatigues and Nepalese Gurkha paramilitary forces have scoured the city for the runaway inmate. 
 Wanted posters are everywhere, mug shots have been transmitted to millions of cellphones and the entire nation of four million people has been deputized to look out for a round-faced man who is 5-foot-2, weighs 139 pounds and walks -- or at least runs -- with a limp. 
 Newspapers here say it is the biggest manhunt in Singapore's history. Mr. Mas Selamat, 47, who is said to be the chief of operations in Singapore for the Jemaah Islamiyah terrorist network, is accused by the government of being the coordinator of a failed plot to bomb the United States Embassy and several other targets in Singapore. Officials also say he planned to crash an airplane into Singapore's airport. 
 He had been in detention here since 2006 under the Internal Security Act, which allows the government to hold suspects without trial, and his escape shocked terrorism experts in the region. 
 ''Everyone thought Singapore had the tightest security system of anyone around,'' said Sidney Jones, a leading terrorism expert for the International Crisis Group. 
 As a nation, Singapore is as lean and mean and flexible as the rapid-response military the Pentagon dreams of, and it reacted with impressive speed and agility to recent Asian outbreaks of bird flu and SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome. 
 But for the moment it seems to have met its match in Mr. Mas Selamat. His disappearance challenges the government's basic promise to its citizens that it will keep them safe and comfortable. 
 The authorities have released little information about his escape on Feb. 27, but they say that he acted alone and on the spur of the moment and that he is probably still in Singapore. 
 The official account is that the prisoner asked to go to the bathroom while waiting for family members to visit, then simply disappeared from the Whitley Road Detention Center. 
 If this is true, said Lee Kin Mun, a leading political blogger who calls himself Mr. Brown, the government should ''take a leaf from school exams, where security seems to be tighter'' and where students must be escorted to the bathroom. 
 The country's founder and former prime minister, Lee Kuan Yew, boiled the whole debacle down to one word: complacency. 
 He used the episode to strike again with his frequent warning that Singaporeans must work hard to protect the modern but fragile country he created from a social or economic explosion. 
 ''It shows that it is a fallacy, it is stupid, to believe we are infallible,'' he said. ''We are not infallible. One mistake and we've got a big explosive in our midst. So let's not take this lightly. I think it's a very severe lesson on complacency.'' 
 His son, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, said, ''It is definitely a setback, and it should never have happened.'' And then, echoing his father: ''It's the danger of complacency, of thinking that everything is all right.'' 
 In Singapore, words like that amount to marching orders, and government agencies seem to be rushing to demonstrate that whatever else they are, they are anything but complacent. 
 Wong Hong Kuan, the assistant police commissioner, is at the center of the storm, commanding both his security forces and the public response. 
 ''He knows machines, so keep an eye on your car,'' said the newspaper Today, reporting on a recent briefing by Mr. Wong. ''Anyone who discovers their vehicles, including motorcycles and bicycles, missing, should make a police report immediately.'' 
 ''Err on the side of caution,'' the paper quoted Mr. Wong as saying. ''Every second counts.'' 
 The public has swung into action, as it has with previous nationwide campaigns -- to have fewer children, to have more children, to keep toilets clean, not to throw things off balconies, to speak good English, to smile and to commit ''spontaneous acts of kindness.'' 
 More than a thousand people have telephoned the police with tips. Concerned citizens are stopping people on the street who fit the fugitive's description. This is not a good place to be a man with a limp. 
 ''Mas Selamat'' seems to be everywhere. 
 He has been seen running into a park wearing only a pair of shorts monogrammed with the initials of the detention center. He has been spotted at an outdoor food stall, ''but it turned out to be the man is Chinese,'' according to a witness quoted in the news media. 
 Someone followed his footprints up a flight of stairs to a rooftop, where the footprints disappeared. Someone else saw him running down a highway toward a causeway linking Singapore to Malaysia. 
 A comedian, Ahmad Stokin, 51, said he had been stopped eight times, but did not seem to find it funny. He said he might look a bit like the picture on the wanted posters and he may have a limp, but it is in his right leg, not his left. 
 Two weeks into the search, these fruitless sightings are about all the papers have to report about the biggest news story of the day. 
 The top headline on Thursday about the search in the country's main newspaper, The Straits Times, read: ''I Think I Saw Mas Selamat.'' 
 An unidentified woman, the paper reported, had just recalled seeing someone who fit the description two weeks ago near the Singapore Association of the Visually Handicapped. 
 Pondering this report, the newspaper left its readers with what is now a pointless question. 
 ''Was Fugitive Limping Along This Road?'' it asked in a headline, and displayed a photo of an empty, rain-slick road where the witness had been standing. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wanted posters of Mas Selamat bin Kastari are everywhere in Singapore, as are searching glances. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WONG MAYE-E/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); PRISONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); MARINE VESSELS (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); WRITERS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (62%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEPAL (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



335 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1720 words

HEADLINE: For a Climber, Calm Above, Terror Below

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

DATELINE: MOAB, Utah 

 BODY:
He had learned this extreme form of tightrope walking from a homeless man who wrote books on quantum physics. But that was years ago, while goofing around on a flexible piece of nylon webbing tied close to the ground between a tree and the bumper of a Chevy van.
 This was something else entirely for Dean Potter, one of the world's best climbers, barefoot in the dying sun last Friday, walking between ledges of a U-shaped rim above Hell Roaring Canyon, a 400-foot sheer sandstone wall on his right, a 900-foot drop to a dry riverbed on his left. No leash tethered him to the rope. Nothing attached him to earth but the grip of his size-14 feet and the confident belief that, if needed, his parachute would open quickly and cleanly and not slam him into the canyon wall. 
 At 6 feet 5 inches and 180 pounds, wirily strong, Potter dressed in jeans and blue T-shirt emblazoned with a hawk. He wore a wide headband over unruly hair, gaining the appearance of a less gaunt and reckless Keith Richards as Alpine daredevil. As Potter stepped onto the 180-foot rope -- a strand of iridescent blue against desiccated canyon shades of brick and tan and coppery green -- he was believed to be the first person to combine the adventure sports of highlining and BASE-jumping.
 He was also taking another stride toward his longing for avian flight, not as a birdman in a nylon wing suit or squirrel suit, which he had tried, but as a soloist who could jump off a cliff in a way that he did not yet understand, with a strength and concentration that he did not yet possess, and simply fly. Trance music pulsed from speakers on the canyon ledge with knowing lyrics: ''Sometimes I think my dreams are wild.''
 Highlining was a high-wire version of slacklining, an extreme cousin of tightrope walking in which no pole was used for balance and the rope was elastic, allowing for various tricks involving walking, sitting, lying down, flipping, even spinning hula hoops. BASE-jumping was an acronym used to describe parachuting from objects like buildings, towers, bridges and cliffs.
 At 35, Potter had long stirred wonder as a climber. Six years ago, in Yosemite National Park, he became the first person to free climb El Capitan and Half Dome together in less than 24 hours, meaning he used ropes only for protection in case he fell, climbing only with his hands and feet for a vertical mile. It was an effort requiring remarkable concentration and speed that would be unthinkable for an average weekend climber, who would need gear and most or all of a two-week vacation to make a similar ascent.
 In 2001, Potter climbed the famous Nose route on El Capitan, a 3,000-foot vertical wall with a fierce overhang, in 3 hours 24 minutes. It was a feat stunning in its economy, considering that, in 1958, the renowned climber Warren J. Harding led the first team up the route in 45 days. Often, Potter has climbed thousands of feet carrying no ropes at all, nothing to aid his grip but shoes and a bag of chalk.
 ''Sport is all about being in the zone, when time and space stop and everything goes away,'' said Beaver Theodosakis, the founder and president of prAna, the climbing apparel company that sponsors Potter. ''Dean holds that zone for hours on end, when the mind can't wander, when you can't second-guess, when you have to be so confident and deliberate in your moves. Imagine in everyday life, if we could go to the office like that and not be distracted.''
 If he was awe-inspiring, Potter was also a polarizing figure in the climbing world. In 2006, he climbed Delicate Arch, the revered 60-foot sandstone structure located near here that is featured on Utah license plates. Technically, it was not an illegal ascent, but Potter came under ferocious criticism, accused by others of slicing grooves in the structure (which he denies) and of betraying the soulfulness of climbing with self-promoting news media attention.
 ''Do what you want, but don't make it a spectacle,'' Cory Richards, a Moab photographer and climber, said.
 In the uproar, Potter lost his sponsorship with Patagonia, the environmentally sensitive clothing and apparel company. 
 Still, he said he had no regrets about climbing Delicate Arch. ''I know we totally respected that place,'' he said. He continues to climb with ambition. At the same time, rock climbing has become so mainstream that gyms invite children to scale indoor walls at birthday parties. In the way surfers branched into skateboarding in the late 1950s, Potter was now pushing the envelope in the emerging sports of highlining and BASE-jumping.
 ''I think that partly has been a motivator for Dean, to keep pushing into the unknown and getting a little more fringe as things are getting more homogenized,'' Steph Davis, a top climber and Potter's wife, said.
 Potter, an Army brat who grew up in New Hampshire, began slacklining in 1993 under the tutelage of a Yosemite character named Chongo, famous among climbers for his itinerant lifestyle and his obsessive musings on theoretical physics.
 On his Web site, chongonation.com, Chongo warned that even for rock-climbing experts and extreme sport professionals, a misstep while highlining could result in serious Newtonian consequences of action and equal and opposite reaction.
 Last Thursday at Hell Roaring Canyon, Potter believed he was finally ready to walk the 180-foot rope while tethered to a leash around his waist. During a couple weeks of rehearsal, he had felt exposed on the rope, with a touch of vertigo. A parabola of sandstone curved off to his right, never more than 60 feet away. To his left, the gorge yawned a half-mile wide. Straight ahead, the rope was anchored to a narrow promontory that seemed to hover, drawing his vision a mile down the canyon.
 ''When I get in the middle, an emptiness takes over,'' Potter said. ''I felt a little helpless.''
 On his first few attempts at sunset, the temperature dipping into the 30s, Potter straddled the rope as he fell, barrel-rolling into a sitting position and scooting back to the ledge. And then with impeccable balance and concentration, his arms waving in smooth, swooping motions, he reached midway and beyond. The rope was more taut than a regular slackline. Still, it gave about two feet in the middle and moved a foot from side to side. Potter kept his equilibrium. The leash's metal ring dragged behind him, giving a reassuring scrape along the rope that was amplified by the canyon's acoustics.
 He secured the rope between his two biggest toes, focusing on a yellow flag hanging from the outcropping at the end of the line. He grew more confident and his breathing became shallow and loud and when he covered the distance Potter let out a whoop.
 It was at times like this, full of calm and terror, Potter said, that he felt most connected to himself and his surroundings.
 ''When there's a death consequence, when you are doing things that if you mess up you die, I like the way it causes my senses to peak,'' Potter said. ''I can see more clearly. You can think much faster. You hear at a different level. Your foot contact on the line is accentuated. Your sense of balance is heightened. I don't seem to feel that very often meditating.''
 From the time he was a boy, Potter said, he had a recurring dream. He was in the air and people were giving him instructions in high-pitched squeaks, teaching him how to fly. At the end of his dream, he began to fall, dropping toward a dead tree, and then he awakened. As a climber, he came to believe that he might be seeing his own death. But as a highliner and BASE-jumper, he said, he had come to view his dream as an affirmation of flight instead of a portent of mortality.
 Potter's whole career has been moving toward a moment of detachment, said a friend, Brad Lynch, a filmmaker who has spent two years on a film about him called ''The Aerialist.'' First, Potter climbed with ropes, then only with his fingers. Now he held on by the clutching of his feet.
 ''How little can you be attached to the earth by?'' Lynch said. ''How thin you can you make the veil?''
 Last Friday morning at Hell Roaring Canyon, the sky was cloudless. The wind calmed as temperatures rose into the 50s. The leash was gone. Now Potter would rely on a parachute for safe passage to the ground. If he slipped off the highline, he would have four or five seconds to open the chute before he hit the broken rock below. It was imperative that he jump away from the sandstone wall so that he could float safely to a sandy wash on the canyon floor. The landing zone was marked with a circle on the river bed. A yellow flag signaled the wind direction.
 As Potter stepped onto the line, he seemed not yet comfortable with the 12 pounds of extra weight from the parachute. When he fell and straddled the rope, it became more difficult to roll back into a sitting position. His movements, fluid without the chute, were jerky now, less certain.
 After a few tries, he said he needed a break then changed his mind. He walked 15 feet or so along the line, lost his steadiness, stuck his left leg out as a counterbalance, windmilled his left arm, then bounded on both feet off the rope, dropping into the canyon. He chute opened with a popping sound and he wafted toward the river bed, overshooting the landing zone in his bare feet, cutting his foot slightly on a rock.
 ''It's still intimidating'' without a leash, Potter said after climbing back to the canyon rim. ''There was no noise from that steel ring holding me onto the earth.''
 Still, he clearly relished the liberation of his brief free fall from the line.
 ''I flew a little, oooh, yeah, pretty nice,'' Potter said.
 At sunset, he gave it another try, but his second parachute was a pound or two heavier. Potter seemed tired and wobbly, sticking his left leg out for balance, then his right. 
 Again he hopped off the rope, gliding toward the river bed, landing this time like a leaf on water. In a week, he thought he would be able to walk the entire line. Already, he felt one step closer to flying.
 ''Part of me says it's kind of crazy to think you can fly your human body,'' Potter said. ''Another part of me thinks all of us have had the dream that we can fly. Why not chase after it? Maybe it brings you to some other tangent. Chasing after the unattainable is the fun part.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dean Potter, above and at left, one of the world's best mountain climbers, navigated Hell Roaring Canyon in Utah last week with only a parachute to save him if he slipped.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM HURST)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPH DAVIS)(pg. D1)
 Dean Potter lost his balance, left, trying to cross between two ledges at Hell Roaring Canyon. He pushed away from the rope line, center, and had only four or five seconds to open his parachute.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPH DAVIS)(pg. D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXTREME SPORTS (89%); CLIMBING (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); QUANTUM MECHANICS (73%); PHYSICS (73%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (70%)

PERSON: KEITH RICHARDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



336 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Gold Glitters, Dollar Loses Its Luster

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Eighty feet below the sidewalks of Lower Manhattan lie half a million bars of gold, the most valuable stockpile of bullion in the world.
 On Thursday, the market value of that gold, held in the vault of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, approached $242 billion. And several miles south, Steve Martinez, who owns a slightly smaller hoard of gold, stared at his television in disbelief.
 ''I'm sitting here, I have that TV on all day, and I'm watching the reports of gold,'' said Mr. Martinez, who runs a company that supplies gold leaf to high-end restaurants, churches and Las Vegas casinos out of his home on Staten Island. ''It's $1,000 an ounce!'' 
 It was a historic day for a historic metal. Gold -- pride of kings, undoer of men and one of the world's earliest currencies -- has gone through an immense price run-up in recent months. And on Thursday, the treasure of millennia finally ticked past the millennium mark.
 The metal peaked at $1,005 a troy ounce before noon. It fell back by day's end, with the June contract settling at $998.70, its highest nominal close, but below its inflation-adjusted peak, reached in the early 1980s after a series of wars, oil shocks and a deep domestic recession.
 Gold has always been a refuge in troubled times. In early 1815, when Napoleon escaped from Elba to return to France and war seemed imminent, the price of gold in London rose more than 20 percent; it fell back that June after he was beaten at Waterloo. 
 ''Gold has longevity. It doesn't go bad,'' said Bart Melek, global commodities strategist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. ''It's hard to replicate.''
 Last year, as financial markets began to quake from the subprime mortgage turmoil, some began watching gold as a recession gauge. ''I think if everything hit the fan, this would be something to own,'' the economist Peter L. Bernstein, an expert on gold, said in an interview last fall.
 And as the credit crisis became more severe -- and costly oil and food edged up inflation -- the run-up in gold prices accelerated. ''Gold is a good barometer of financial and economic events,'' said James Steel, chief commodities analyst at HSBC. ''The credit crisis has triggered a lot of safe-haven buying in commodities in general, but particularly in gold.''
 With the dollar falling to record lows and the Federal Reserve sharply dropping interest rates, gold has become an even more attractive investment. 
 The increased demand comes as the amount of gold being mined in South Africa, the world's largest producer of precious metals, has declined. On Thursday, the South African government said that widespread electrical failures had reduced the supply of precious metals. 
 Gold output plummeted 17 percent from a year earlier and the country's overall mining output dropped by the most in at least 10 years.
 At Thursday's prices, the value of the gold at Fort Knox ticked up to $147 billion. The half a million bars at the New York Fed, worth $167 billion a year ago, rose to $242 billion.
 And in Rockefeller Center, Robert B. Raiber, a dentist, was warning patients that the price of installing a gold crown was about to go up.
 ''Patients will see a 10 or 20 percent increase on what it may cost to do a gold inlay or a crown,'' said Dr. Raiber, who sits on the board of the New York State Dental Association. 
 In Manhattan, Dr. Raiber said, gold crowns already cost up to $2,000. The amount of gold in a complete crown -- three pennyweights, or less than a fifth of an ounce -- would now fetch $149.81 on the open market, up from $103 a year ago.
 The high prices are forcing some patients to consider other options, like crowns made of porcelain or acrylic. 
 ''Gold is the best restorative material known to dentistry, bar none,'' Dr. Raiber said. But, he added, ''the combination of a recession and the increase in cost for dental work may cause people to hold back.''
 Back on Staten Island, Mr. Martinez said that the cost of importing the gold for his business, the Gold Leaf Company, was on the rise. 
 ''I've had to raise the prices,'' he said. Two grams of decorative gold powder, which Mr. Martinez recommends storing in a ''small empty pepper shaker'' for ease of use, now costs $120, up from $95 in June.
 As the markets buzzed over $1,000-an-ounce gold, Mr. Martinez was hardly glowing.
 ''This whole thing has been nothing but a headache,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The price of a one-ounce Krugerrand rose to $1,016 at a shop in California. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLD MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); RECESSION (87%); RESTAURANTS (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); INTEREST RATES (61%); SUBPRIME LENDING (61%); CASINOS (56%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (68%); CALIFORNIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (74%); CANADA (68%); FRANCE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



337 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: Small Businesses Face Cut In Immigrant Work Force

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: HYANNIS, Mass. 

 BODY:
For years, William Zammer Jr. has relied on 100 seasonal foreign employees to turn down beds, boil lobsters and serve cocktails at the restaurants, golf course and inn he owns on Cape Cod and in nearby Plymouth.
 This summer, however, the foreign workers will not be returning, and Mr. Zammer, like other seasonal employers across the nation, is scrambling to find replacements.
 ''It's a major crisis,'' he said. ''We're very short on work force. We'll be looking at opening a little later, closing a little earlier, looking at how we do our menus.'' 
 Mr. Zammer is caught up in a Congressional standoff over immigration overhaul that is punishing employers who play by the rules and that, advocates of change say, could cost small companies billions in lost business. 
 In an effort to win support for a comprehensive immigration overhaul, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and its allies have blocked voting on legislation that would allow employers to rehire foreign seasonal nonagricultural workers independent of a 1991 quota. 
 As a result, the government is limited to issuing the 66,000 seasonal work visas set when the visa program, known as H-2B, became law -- 33,000 for winter workers and 33,000 for summer workers. Last year, more than 120,000 foreign workers entered the country on H-2B visas.
 For Cape Cod, the impact has been devastating. Employers will receive only 15 of the 5,000 visas they had requested, according to the Cape Cod Chamber of Commerce.
 ''It's just ruthless for the Hispanic caucus to do this, use it as a bargaining chip,'' said Mr. Zammer, whose foreign workers -- mostly from Jamaica and Eastern Europe -- normally make up 25 percent of his staff. ''We're working at finding new people. We have to. But it's extremely difficult, because you end up stealing from other people who are also trying to get help.'' 
 Returning workers became exempt from the cap in 2005, when Congress passed the Save our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act, and President Bush signed it into law. The act expired in 2007, and Congress passed a one-year extension that was attached to the National Defense Authorization Act. The extension expired on Sept. 30, 2007, the end of the 2007 fiscal year.
 Employers say that unless Congress acts soon, they will have to scale back operations, because the labor pool in many resort areas is not deep enough to provide new workers, and many people do not want seasonal jobs. 
 Patti Ann Moskwa, owner of the Yankee Rebel Tavern on Mackinac Island, Mich., plans to cut back dinner hours because she will be understaffed this summer. She said the 15 foreign workers who cooked and cleared tables at her restaurant were more than employees. 
 ''They're like our family,'' Ms. Moskwa said. ''You don't want to be the person to call these people and tell them the government won't let them back. It's a sad situation for us and the workers.''
 Republicans in Congress have resisted immigration overhaul, insisting that the focus be first on enforcing current laws. The Hispanic Caucus contends that a broad overhaul is needed and that legislation exempting returning foreign workers from the cap on visas should be part of it.
 ''I recognize that H-2B visa fixes are an important part of the immigration crisis,'' said Representative Joe Baca, Democrat of California and chairman of the Hispanic Caucus. ''But that should be just another check mark in the column as to why this Congress must take real action on immigration reform.'' 
 A bipartisan coalition of 182 members of Congress has co-sponsored measures sponsored by Representative Bart Stupak, Democrat of Michigan, and Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland, that would allow returning workers back.
 ''The H-2B visa program is being held hostage,'' said Representative Bill Delahunt, a Democrat who represents Cape Cod. ''We're talking about a stimulus package, and yet we're putting at risk regional economies from the East Coast to the West Coast and many sections of the country in between.'' 
 Representative Charles Boustany Jr., Republican of Louisiana, has introduced a measure that calls for immediate consideration of Mr. Stupak's bill. Congressional aides involved in the negotiations over the measure said Democratic leaders were discussing a compromise measure with the Hispanic Caucus and others.
 Some advocates for business owners argue that employers who go to the trouble of hiring legal employees are being unfairly punished. 
 ''It's kind of sad that those who have followed the law, paid an inordinate amount of money to follow the law by paying attorneys' fees, prevailing wage and following the rules, are those who are getting hurt,'' said Don Mooers, an immigration lawyer working with Save Small Businesses, a group of small business owners lobbying for the cap to be lifted. 
 ''I get that question every day, 'Why are we following the law when the guy down the street isn't, and I'm the one who may face going out of business,' '' Mr. Mooers said 
 Here on Cape Cod, the need for imported seasonal labor is especially acute, as 25 percent of residents are over 65 and high real estate prices have driven many blue-collar workers elsewhere. 
 ''We have a very old population, twice the national average of people on Medicare and we're losing population to other parts of the country because of our affordable housing problem,'' said Wendy Northcross, chief executive of the Cape Cod Chamber of Commerce. ''We're losing the population that could potentially take some of our seasonal jobs.'' 
 D. J. Vander Silk, owner of D. J.'s Lawn Service in Grand Rapids, Mich., said he had planned to hire 30 workers from Mexico on temporary seasonal visas, but will not get any. ''I feel like we're right on the edge,'' he said. ''There's a robber outside the house and we're about to get hit in the head.'' 
 Now Mr. Vander Silk and his 20 remaining employees are not accepting new clients and are trying to recruit workers from Florida and the local community. The homes he bought a few years ago to shelter the temporary workers will remain empty for the near future. 
 ''We're in uncharted waters,'' he said.
 Sandy Munley, executive director of the Ohio Landscape Association, said the industry employed about 3,000 H-2B workers in Ohio last year, and did not know how many would return. Many contractors are giving away jobs to businesses with adequate staffing, Ms. Munley said. 
 ''This industry tends to be very supportive of each other,'' she said, ''but I don't think anything's ever come to this degree, where people are giving away work. Typically, contractors tend to get it done, but they all definitely say this is historic in a sad way.''
 Jim Royal, who operates Kelly Miller Circuses, said he could not find employees to assemble big tops for his traveling circus. He usually relies on 25 H-2B workers from Mexico. 
 ''It's affecting virtually every circus in America,'' Mr. Royal said. ''We're still on hold. We've applied and haven't gotten anything. We're trying desperately to recruit, but the artists will probably have to help out.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: D. J. Vander Silk, owner of D. J.'s Lawn Service in Grand Rapids, Mich., with mowers that may go unused for lack of workers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM BIRD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 William Zammer Jr., owner of restaurants on Cape Cod, will be forced to open for summer tourists a little later than usual. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RYAN CONATI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPH: LIMITING FOREIGN WORKERS: The number of temporary visas issued to nonagricultural foreign workers will be limited to 66,000 in the 2008 fiscal year, about half the number issued last year. (Source: U.S. Department of State) Graph showing the number of temporary work visas issued. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); SEASONAL WORKERS (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CAUCUSES (88%); LEGISLATION (88%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF STATE (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (77%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (75%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



338 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'FUNNY GAMES'; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: A Vicious Attack on Innocent People, on the Screen and in the Theater

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
It is customary to describe film directors who keep a tight rein on their audience's responses, who coldly and meticulously manipulate emotion, as sadists. Not necessarily in a bad way; filmmaking is to a large degree an art of control. Alfred Hitchcock, Stanley Kubrick and Steven Spielberg can all, with some justice, be accused of sadism, a charge that hardly detracts from -- indeed, that helps to explain -- the way they provide entertainment.
 Michael Haneke, an Austrian auteur who has worked for many years in France, has always been more interested in punishing his audience than in entertaining it. His scrupulously constructed, skillfully made films, many of which have won prizes at leading international festivals, are excruciatingly suspenseful and also, more often than not, clammy and repellent.
 It is likely that Mr. Haneke would take the last two adjectives as praise -- it's fine with me if they show up in advertisements -- or at least as the acknowledgment of fulfilled intentions. His is an especially pure and perverse kind of cinematic sadism, the kind that seeks to stop us from taking pleasure in our own masochism. We will endure the pain he inflicts for our own good, and feel bad about it in the bargain. 
 ''Funny Games,'' Mr. Haneke's first English-language film -- and a compulsively faithful replica of his notorious 1997 German-language feature of the same title -- subjects its viewers to a long spectacle of wanton and gratuitous brutality. So, of course, do countless other movies, though few of them can claim this one's artistic pedigree or aesthetic prestige. And indeed, the conceit of ''Funny Games'' is that it offers a harsh, exacting critique of vulgar, violent amusements, a kind of homeopathic treatment for a public numbed and besotted by the casual consumption of images of suffering. That the new version takes place in America is part of the point, since Americans -- to a European intellectual this almost goes without saying -- are especially deserving of the kind of moral correction Mr. Haneke takes it upon himself to mete out.
 Our problem is that we think violence is fun. Well, the fun stops here, people. Ann and George (Naomi Watts and Tim Roth) drive out to the country with their young son, Georgie (Devon Gearhart), towing their lovely wooden sailboat behind their Land Rover and listening to opera CDs. As they settle into their tasteful, gated vacation home, the family is confronted by two well-spoken young sociopaths, who in the course of the following night torment them with a knife, a gun, a golf club and impeccable prep school manners. These fellows variously address each other as Peter and Paul, Tom and Jerry and Beavis and Butt-Head (Leopold and Loeb would have given the game away), and they are played by Michael Pitt and Brady Corbet. 
 Mr. Pitt, blue-eyed and baby-faced, appears to be the calm, ironical alpha predator, while Mr. Corbet, acting skittish and high-strung, looks like the weaker, crazier one. But that might just be part of the game they and Mr. Haneke are playing, since the whole point of Peter and Paul is that they function without identifiable motive or affect. 
 When asked by George -- his leg smashed, his hands tied, his eyes wide with terror -- ''Why are you doing this?,'' Mr. Pitt's character responds with answers that parody the kind of facile back story usually applied in cases like this: unhappy childhood; sexual instability; class resentment; bad education. All of it is facetious, and none of it explains anything.
 In his better movies -- I admit to a qualified admiration for ''Code Inconnu'' (2000), ''The Piano Teacher'' (2001), ''The Time of the Wolf'' (2003) and ''Cache'' (2005) -- Mr. Haneke uses extremity and shock to illuminate social and psychological realities, or at least possibilities. His ideas are often facile encapsulations of chic conventional wisdom about the terrible consequences of sexual repression, economic privilege or racial hypocrisy, but his formal dexterity gives these films a creepy power nonetheless. 
 You may try to dismiss what they are saying (which is basically that you, bourgeois cultural prestige-monger that you are, should congratulate yourself for having purchased a dose of Mr. Haneke's contempt), but their unsettling effects are not so easy to shake.
 To some extent, the same is true of ''Funny Games,'' which efficiently induces a state of panic and dread, and which features some fine bits of acting, especially from Mr. Pitt and Ms. Watts. The images Mr. Haneke puts on screen (they are shot with crisp, glossy-magazine elegance by Darius Khondji) are shocking, but they don't unfold with the usual slasher-movie jolts of grisliness. The camera frequently stands still as the horror unfolds just beyond its range, and when a bloody event takes place, we are likely to be shown the face of a passive witness rather than that of the perpetrator or the victim.
 ''Why don't you just kill us and get it over with?'' George whimpers. His would-be killer's reply -- ''What about entertainment?'' -- carries beyond the screen, where the voyeuristic masses are implicated in the gruesome spectacle of senseless cruelty. Are we, though? What if the guilt trip never takes off? Or, even worse, what if the American audience, cretins that we are, were to embrace Mr. Haneke's vision not for its moral stringency but for the thrill of, say, watching Ms. Watts, bound at the ankles and wrists, hop around in her underwear? Who will be implicated then? I started out by calling Mr. Haneke a sadist, but it seems to me that he may be too naive, too delicate, to merit that designation, which should be reserved only for the greatest filmmakers. 
 At least with the remade ''Funny Games,'' Mr. Haneke shows a certain kinship with someone like Eli Roth, whose ''Hostel'' movies have brought nothing but scorn from responsible critics. (If Mr. Haneke wanted to break into the American market, rather than take solace in the ambivalent embrace of the intelligentsia, he should have undertaken not a remake but a sequel.) The ''Hostel'' pictures and their ilk revel in the pornography of blood and pain, which Mr. Haneke addresses with mandarin distaste, even as he feeds the appetite for it. 
 Like Peter and Paul, who wear immaculate white gloves as they go about their awful business, ''Funny Games'' tries to insulate itself from its own awfulness in the fine cloth of self-consciousness. On a few occasions Mr. Pitt turns to address the audience directly, mocking us for rooting for Ann and George's survival, deriding our desire for neat resolutions. At these moments, using techniques that might have seemed audacious to an undergraduate literary theory class in 1985 or so, the film calls attention to its own artificial status. It actually knows it's a movie! What a clever, tricky game! What fun! What a fraud.
 ''Funny Games'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It has scenes of graphic, pointless violence.
 FUNNY GAMES
 Opens on Friday nationwide.
 Written and directed by Michael Haneke; director of photography, Darius Khondji; edited by Monika Willi; production designer, Kevin Thompson; produced by Chris Coen, Hamish McAlpine, Hengameh Panahi, Christian Baute and Andro Steinborn; released by Warner Independent Pictures. Running time: 1 hour 52 minutes. 
 WITH: Naomi Watts (Ann), Tim Roth (George), Michael Pitt (Paul),Brady Corbet (Peter), Devon Gearhart (Georgie), Boyd Gaines (Fred), Siobhan Fallon Hogan (Betsy) and Robert LuPone (Robert). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Naomi Watts in a scene from ''Funny Games,'' Michael Haneke's remake of his own 1997 film.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE RIVELLI/WARNER INDEPENDENT PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (78%); FESTIVALS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (67%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (66%); GOLF (64%)

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (72%); GERMANY (54%)

TITLE: Funny Games (Movie)>; Funny Games (Movie)>

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



339 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: Preventing Another Genocide

 BODY:
The world's failure to end the killing in Darfur may soon be compounded by renewed fighting in southern Sudan. Another genocide cannot be allowed to happen. 
 The new threat centers on the oil-rich region of Abyei, which is claimed by both Sudan's government and the semiautonomous government of South Sudan. Several hundred people have died there in recent clashes between a large group of Arab nomads, the Misseriya, and South Sudan's armed forces. Like the janjaweed militias that unleashed Darfur's horrors, the Misseriya are armed and encouraged by Khartoum. 
 More than two million people died in a 20-year civil war before the Bush administration brokered a peace deal in 2005. The goal was to create a unified democratic state. Sudan's president, Omar al-Bashir, has since balked at most everything that might make that work. 
 He rejected a plan for governing Abyei, setting its boundaries and sharing oil wealth. And he refused to comply with other commitments: forming joint military units, preparing for the return of refugees and taking a credible census before national elections in 2009. 
 President Bush -- who has done a huge amount of hand-wringing about Sudan and Darfur -- should have been pressing Khartoum to keep those commitments. But, as ever, there has been far too little follow-through. 
 We are encouraged that Mr. Bush has appointed a new envoy, Richard Williamson, a straight-talking lawyer who is already goading the United Nations and the White House to do more about Darfur's nightmare. The Security Council had promised to send 26,000 peacekeepers by the end of last year. So far, there are only 9,000 because of Khartoum's obstruction, United Nations red tape and the fecklessness of all the major states. 
 Mr. Williamson's goal -- another 3,600 peacekeepers by the end of May -- still falls pitifully short of what is needed. He will also have to find ways to salvage the north-south peace deal before it is too late. 
 All of that means that the international community must find more effective ways to pressure Khartoum. China, Sudan's major oil client, has real leverage but has not done nearly enough. Beijing and Russia must suspend arms sales. The United States must keep sanctions in place and consider a no-flight zone over Darfur. 
 Major players -- including Europe and Sudan's Arab allies -- should make clear that Khartoum will pay a stiff price if it attacks the South. The United Nations should increase monitoring of flashpoints in Abyei and work to prevent local clashes from escalating. 
 The United States and others also need a fallback plan. They need to do a lot more to help southern Sudan build up its government and economy and, if necessary, its ability to defend itself.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); GENOCIDE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); PEACEKEEPING (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); CIVIL WAR (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); LAWYERS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); REFUGEES (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: OMAR AL-BASHIR (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (52%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (52%) SUDAN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



340 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Inside Art

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
DRAWING CENTER 
 Won't Move to Seaport 
 The Drawing Center has walked away from a plan to relocate from SoHo to the South Street Seaport. It is the third time that an effort to find a new home for this art institution has fallen through.
 The site, on the corner of John and South Streets in Lower Manhattan, is owned by the city and currently being leased to the South Street Seaport Museum, which had once planned to build there. Negotiations to transfer the lease back to the city and then to the Drawing Center began in earnest in February 2007. 
 ''In July we were on the verge of moving forward,'' said Brett Littman, the Drawing Center's director. But the talks stalled, and the project's estimated cost rose to $61 million from the initial $50 million. The center's board had second thoughts. 
 ''With a downturn in the economy, we didn't feel this was a prudent time to embark on such an ambitious project,'' said Mr. Littman, who noted that a 12 percent increase in construction costs in the city was a factor. 
 Kate D. Levin, the city's commissioner of cultural affairs, said: ''It is a case of an organization getting real estate fatigue. It's been a long process, and they have made a responsible, thoughtful decision.'' The Drawing Center's first attempt to leave its cramped space on Wooster Street ended in 2005, when it was pushed out of a proposed ground zero building because of objections to its programming. It then set its sights on Pier 18, being vacated by the Fulton Fish Market. That site proved too expensive, and building over water came to seem imprudent for an institution devoted to works on paper. 
 If the Drawing Center had completed a move to the South Street Seaport, it would have received $10 million from the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation and another $10 million from the city's Department of Cultural Affairs, because the site would have aided in the revitalization of the neighborhood. Only the development corporation's grant will still be available, Mr. Littman said, if the center finds another site south of Houston Street. 
 ''It's hard to walk away from $20 million,'' said Eric Rudin, co-chairman of the center's board. ''The institution deserves more and better space, but this is not the moment.'' 
 He and Mr. Littman said the center planned to explore other sites. ''I think we can come up with a better solution,'' Mr. Littman said. 
 AT SOTHEBY'S FOR A CAUSE
 Raymond Nasher, the Dallas collector and real estate developer who died last year at 85, spent a lifetime buying art. He and his wife, Patsy, who died in 1988, amassed more than 1,000 works, by artists including Picasso, Dubuffet, Jasper Johns and Roy Lichtenstein. 
 Before Mr. Nasher's death he had been arranging to sell some of this art to build an endowment for the Nasher Sculpture Center, a 550,000-square-foot museum and sculpture garden in downtown Dallas. It opened in 2003 adjacent to the Dallas Museum of Art. The museum is owned by the Nasher Foundation, the beneficiary of the Nasher estate. 
 About 200 works of Impressionist, Modern and contemporary art from the Nasher collection will be auctioned at Sotheby's. Several of the star works will be offered at its evening Impressionist, Modern and contemporary art sales in May; other pieces will be included in a sale of American art. But the largest group, including works by Lichtenstein, Robert Rauschenberg, Franz Kline and Larry Rivers, will make up a single-owner auction on May 9. Sotheby's estimates that the sales will raise $30 million for the museum. 
 ''As a collector, Ray went in a different direction than most,'' said Warren P. Weitman Jr., chairman of Sotheby's in North and South America. The Nashers concentrated on sculpture, and most of their paintings and drawings were sculptural in nature or directly corresponded to sculptures in their collection. 
 Among the works in Sotheby's important sale of Impressionist and Modern art on May 7 are two late paintings by Picasso. ''The Kiss,'' painted in 1969 while he was on the French Riviera with his wife, Jacqueline, portrays an angry couple kissing; it is estimated at $10 million to $15 million. ''The Studio'' (1961-2) features several nude models inspired by his wife, and its estimate is $6 million to $8 million. 
 MET BUYS A DELACROIX
 The Metropolitan Museum has acquired an 1862 painting by Delacroix, ''Ovid Among the Scythians,'' with funds from Jayne Wrightsman, a trustee. The purchase was in honor of the museum's director, Philippe de Montebello, who announced his plans for retirement in January. 
 The painting depicts an episode from Ovid's exile in Tomis (a remote town on the Black Sea), a subject Delacroix, who died in 1863, had painted several times earlier in his career. 
 ''It is our only late painting by Delacroix,'' said Gary Tinterow, the Met's curator in charge of 19th-century, Modern and contemporary art. ''This is his late, final statement on a theme that interested him his whole life.'' 
 This work , which came from a Swiss private collection, is the second Delacroix donated by Mrs. Wrightsman. Mr. Tinterow has just hung the new acquisition below her 1995 gift, ''Portrait of Madame Henri Francois Riesener (Felicite Longrois),'' the artist's aunt, painted by Delacroix in 1835. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Acquired by the Met: ''Ovid Among the Scythians,'' painted by Delacroix a year before he died.(PHOTOGRAPH BY METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (79%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); SOUTH STREET SEAPORT MUSEUM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



341 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART IN REVIEW; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Art in Review

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
STEVE WHEELER
 In Context
 David Findlay Jr. Fine Art
 41 East 57th Street, Manhattan
 Through March 22
 This lively exhibition sheds more light on Steve Wheeler (1912-92), a contemporary of Philip Guston (1913-80), who offered among the sharper alternatives to Abstract Expressionism. 
 Wheeler's work started to resurface about 15 years ago. In the face of AbEx's big scale, open gestures and abstract purity, he cultivated tightly wound geometries that were fiery in color, finely diced and full of hints of disjointed figures and faces. His style -- sometimes called Indian Space Painting -- took cues from Northwest Coast Indian and Pre-Columbian art, comic books and European masters like Klee and Miro. The free-flowing pixelated compositions, while full of angles, owe something to automatist drawing. 
 This exhibition surrounds Wheeler's paintings and drawings with works from the late 1930s to the early '60s, done by 14 of his contemporaries. A loose-limbed automatist work by Roberto Matta hangs next to a mosaiclike relief by Alfonso Ossorio; both have connective tissue with Wheeler's obsessive compositions. The idiosyncratic geometries of Stuart Davis -- which breathe in a way that Wheeler's don't -- are acknowledged as a possible influence, especially on three little-known, more open Wheeler works from the early 1940s.
 Other artists who have Indian Space moments are well represented: Will Barnet, Howard Daum, Gertrude Barrer, Peter Busa and especially Richard Pousette-Dart, working boldly in turquoise on white. Byron Browne anticipates late (figurative) Jackson Pollock in a small 1947 work painted in black over jewel-like colors.
 Such company makes the singular intensity and consistency of Wheeler's art palpable, but also clarifies his limitations by bringing out its airless, puzzlelike rigidity. This may be why a small, vibrant watercolor from the late '40s by Mr. Barnet provides such pleasure. It was dashed off on a mailer from a men's shop, Casual Aire, and it easily lives up to the advertising. ROBERTA SMITH
 MEG WEBSTER
 Paula Cooper Gallery
 465 West 23rd Street, Chelsea
 Through March 22
 In Meg Webster's first New York show since 2000, her interest in nature continues, but her materials are not as raw as before. Full of crisp edges and shiny surfaces, the pieces here form a parable about the environment.
 A video of a starving polar bear on a tiny screen sets the stage. Next comes a work on paper that uses cement as paint, similar to earlier monochromes Ms. Webster made with organic materials like pollen and egg yolk. The narrow, tapering ''Nose Cone Vessel'' is stainless steel, five feet tall and filled to the brim with water, a cornucopia that suggests a missile repurposed for peacetime use. ''Titanium Hemisphere,'' 21 inches across, contrasts the perfection of manufactured materials with the idea of the planet as a depleted shell.
 ''Melted Weapon Box'' is a small open box made of steel, lined with a second box made of aluminum, displayed alongside an actual-size black-and-white photograph of an M-4 assault rifle; the boxes are cast from the melted weapon. Finally, ''Contained Asphalt,'' a three-sided glass column, 52 inches tall and filled with gleaming black asphalt, reminds us of the material that each day covers more and more of the earth's surface, heating it up and threatening flora and fauna. Back to the polar bear.
 These works, which move from white through grays to black, may make more sense together than apart, but their sculptural elegance and conceptual economy bring a new clarity to Ms. Webster's work. ROBERTA SMITH 
 EDGAR BRYAN
 Zach Feuer
 530 West 24th Street, Chelsea
 Through March 22
 Edgar Bryan's first New York solo show is so low-key that it must be trying to prove something. Deft subtlety disguised as wry, inept wistfulness has always been Mr. Bryan's strength. Here he aims it at painting as a bravura activity; New York debuts as aggressive declarations; and oil paint as female flesh. Anyway, he's using acrylic.
 Perhaps to come across as the anti-Currin or the un-Balthus, Mr. Bryan concentrates on two of painting's oldest subjects, the female nude and the still life, the latter using only vases and jugs. Both kinds of ''vessels'' seem made up, or borrowed from comic books, along with the alternately pale and saturated off-key palette.
 Essential to the look: using as little paint as possible. Therein lies the bravura. Colors, when present, are mostly stained. The characteristically scrawny, awkwardly posed young woman in ''The Sword'' is not only nude; she's also nearly paint-free. She both shoulders a large water jug (as in Corot) and holds a sword (as in Poussin). But the jug's narrow neck, black-to-red glaze and teal highlight is more 1950s Los Angeles than French Academy in Rome.
 The conversation among painted, unpainted and glazed is constant. Objects tend to dominate, in both the titles and on the ground. In ''The Black Vase'' they hem in an akimbo nude who seems to be trying to touch the top and bottom edges as if to meet compositional obligations.
 In the end you may find yourself watching Mr. Bryan's every move in these sweet, sharp meditations. A self-portrait shows the artist crouching at a toy easel, working on a small, relatively thick-surfaced abstraction. The work personifies his central oxymoron: sincere irony. ROBERTA SMITH 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PAINTING (78%); MARINE MAMMALS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



342 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Dutch-Traded Fund Moves Toward Collapse

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
David M. Rubenstein, co-founder of the Carlyle Group, pledged on Thursday to ''make amends'' to investors in a fund that has ties to his firm and is facing collapse. 
 ''We're working to find ways to help people to deal with losses and maybe recover some capital,'' Mr. Rubenstein said in a telephone interview. 
 The fund, Carlyle Capital, came to the brink of collapse on Thursday after discussions on refinancing failed, prompting a default on its debt. The fund's inability to strike a deal in talks with creditors late Wednesday, despite help from Mr. Rubenstein and the Carlyle Group's strong ties to lenders, sent renewed shudders around global markets. Investors fear that more funds will run into trouble as clients seek withdrawals. 
 ''I thought we'd work out a way to solve the problem but each of the banks were so worried about their own credit situation,'' Mr. Rubenstein said. ''The result is not a happy one. Over 20 years we had good investment judgment, but we're not infallible.''
 Mr. Rubenstein said that the banks recognized this was ''an unusual situation'' and he did not expect the fund's collapse to have any repercussion on the Carlyle Group's relationships with the lenders, which include most Wall Street banks. The Carlyle Group shares some investors with the fund, which is run by Carlyle Group executives who also own about 15 percent of the fund, but Carlyle Group does not own any of its assets.
 Carlyle Capital said Thursday that it expected lenders to take possession of its remaining assets, a portfolio of United States residential mortgage-backed securities rated AAA. 
 ''If banks are unwilling to lend, then this is the lifeblood of capitalism being restricted,'' said Justin Urquhart Stewart, co-founder of 7 Investment Management in London. ''Hedge funds and other weaker operations are being broken like people stepping on twigs.'' 
 Carlyle Capital's problems also provide a glimpse into the challenges faced by the usually secretive hedge fund industry because, unlike most such funds, Carlyle Capital is publicly listed. The situation has also raised questions about the vulnerability of the privately held funds, which disclose little data. 
 Carlyle Capital joins a number of funds that have run into trouble this year after banks hit by write-downs on assets backed by subprime mortgages started to call in loans or asked for better collateral. 
 Among the funds that are struggling, Peloton Partners, a hedge fund in London run by former Goldman Sachs partners, was forced to liquidate its largest funds last month. Thornburg Mortgage, a major American lender, also ran into trouble after it failed to meet some margin calls, and Drake Management in New York said that it might shut its largest hedge fund. 
 Some investors say they believe that attempts by central bankers to inject funds into the banking system may not be enough to revive markets. 
 ''It's a confidence issue,'' said Irfan Younus, a banking analyst at NCB Stockbrokers. ''People are still nervous, and banks are reluctant to lend more because they're in the process of deleveraging.'' 
 Last month, Carlyle Capital was managing $21.7 billion in assets-- mostly triple-A rated mortgage debt issued by Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. Like many of its peers, it had leveraged itself aggressively, borrowing $31 for each dollar of equity, according to its annual report. Lenders include Deutsche Bank, Bear Stearns, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase. 
 As those investments lost value and banks worried about their debt exposure, creditors demanded that Carlyle Capital put up more and more funds as collateral for the loans. A $150 million credit line from its parent, the Carlyle Group, was not enough to keep it out of trouble. 
 By Wednesday, it had defaulted on about $16.6 billion of debt and some lenders started to liquidate assets. 
 Talks to halt liquidations and revive the fund failed late Wednesday after the value of collateral declined further, prompting an additional $97.5 million in margin calls. 
 The fund's shares, which were first offered in July 2007 and are traded on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange, are now worth 43 cents each, compared with $19 when they started trading last summer. They have dropped more than 90 percent since the company's problems became public last week. 
 In a statement Wednesday, the Carlyle Group stressed that it had not purchased any of Carlyle Capital's securities and was linked to the fund only by name, the credit line and the fact that about 15 percent of the fund's securities are owned by Carlyle Group employees. The fund is run by John C. Stomber, a managing director at the Carlyle Group and a former executive at Cerberus Capital Management.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (74%); INTERVIEWS (71%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%)

COMPANY: CARLYLE GROUP LP (92%); CARLYLE CAPITAL CORP LTD (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (92%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (92%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%) NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



343 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Global Firm, When Sued, Turns Local

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS; Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at norris.blogs.nytimes.com.

 BODY:
This is the era of the global firm, whether in finance or industry. A company like Toyota or Citigroup may have its headquarters in one city, but it has operations all over the world and gets capital from a similarly broad base. When Citi ran into difficulties, it turned to Abu Dhabi. 
 And then there is accounting. 
 At first glance it appears that there are also a handful of global accounting firms -- the Big Four and a couple of others -- but that is not the reality. 
 Those firms are formally organized as a series of partnerships, each of them relying for capital on its own partners rather than on outside sources of capital. And while they may market themselves as unified organizations with worldwide abilities, a very different view is presented when someone sues over a failed audit.
 Then the firms disclaim any responsibility for actions of a firm with a similar name in another country. It is as if Toyota in Japan insisted it had nothing to do with Corollas made in California.
 The accounting firms do that in large part to limit their liability. A single bad audit may bring in fees of less than $1 million -- and liability of half a billion dollars. The partners in Britain have no desire to share in the liability of the American or Brazilian affiliate.
 But that may have to change. Some courts are cutting through the legal barriers -- as one appeals court did in Florida this week -- even as the big auditing firms find it necessary to impose controls and international coordination on their various affiliates. The firms need to assure that international accounting rules are interpreted the same way in London as they are in Frankfurt and Tokyo, no matter how many legally separate partnerships are involved.
 In a Florida case, the lawyer for BDO International, which is the coordinating entity for BDO's international network of firms, persuaded a judge to rule that the international firm, which is based in the Netherlands, had no responsibility for a bad audit performed by BDO Seidman, the American affiliate. BDO Seidman lost the case at trial, and was ordered to pay damages of $521 million.
 In a hearing before an appellate court, BDO International's lawyer dismissed as ''puffery,'' not reality, the claims by his client that it exercised strict management and control over its affiliates. The appeals judges were not impressed, and this week ruled that a jury should consider whether BDO Seidman was an agent of the international firm, making the international firm liable for the bad audit. (BDO Seidman's appeal of the case is pending.) 
 It is not clear just where BDO International would get the money even if it eventually loses the case -- an official testified it has only 10 employees -- but the plaintiffs hope they could go after other BDO affiliates. 
 Eventually, the need for capital may force accounting firms to find ways to change local rules and seek capital from a wide variety of sources, much as Wall Street firms did a generation ago when they began to incorporate and sell stock to investors.
 Paul V. Boyle, the chief executive of the Financial Reporting Council, the British accounting regulator, has suggested such a change may be needed to assure an adequate number of competitors, an issue of concern in many countries since the collapse of Arthur Andersen reduced the Big Five to what some people called the Final Four. 
 ''Outside capital has the potential to facilitate either a new entrant of scale to the industry, or to accelerate the growth rate of some of the smaller existing firms,'' he said in an interview Thursday.
 As it is, regulators fear taking too harsh action against any one of the survivors. One reason the Justice Department shied away from seeking a conviction of KPMG for its tax shelter promotions was a concern that such a move could kill the firm.
 One fear of all accounting firms is that a big legal verdict could be fatal, and that has led to what may be the counterproductive effort to legally insulate each national partnership -- leaving each of them poorly capitalized and vulnerable. If they feel vulnerable, they are more tempted to settle cases that they might win, and that itself can drive up costs.
 The BDO network is not as large as that of the Big Four, but it stretches around the world. The case that threatens it was brought by a Portuguese bank, Banco Espirito Santo International, that had lent $170 million to a Florida company whose audited financial statements showed it had $225 million in accounts receivable. It turned out the real number was $5 million, and that a fraud had been going on for years. Some of those involved went to prison, and the bank sued BDO Seidman and BDO International.
 ''They advertise to the world, 'We are all one firm; we have strict quality controls,' '' said Steven W. Thomas, a partner in Thomas Alexander & Forrester, who represented Banco Espirito Santo. ''Then when they are sued, they say, 'no, we are all separate firms and have nothing to do with each other.' ''
 The appeals court ruling pointed to BDO annual reports advertising its ''strict quality control'' over member firms, including BDO Seidman.
 That kind of control may really be needed in the globalized world we live in, with companies operating across continents. But firms that really have such control are going to need much more capital than any local firm can have, both to withstand the results of errors and to put in place the controls that will reduce their number.
 To accomplish that, it is likely to be necessary to revise laws that now say auditing firms must be controlled by auditors -- and by local auditors at that. There is no comparable rule that you have to be a banker to own stock in a bank, or an engineer to own shares of a car company. But there are rules that such companies need some directors who are independent of management.
 The time is coming when big international accounting firms may have to be organized in the same way as the big international companies they audit.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul V. Boyle, the chief British accounting regulator. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS KLEPONIS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (86%); APPEALS (86%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (76%); AUDITS (73%); DAMAGES (71%); TESTIMONY (70%); JURY TRIALS (70%); JUDGES (70%)

COMPANY: BDO SEIDMAN LLP (85%); CITIGROUP INC (84%); BDO GLOBAL COORDINATION BV (84%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (84%); C (BMV) (84%); 8710 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); NETHERLANDS (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



344 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Not Too Early?

 BODY:
The Bush administration's proposal for revamping the nation's ailing mortgage market contains some sensible ideas. But they are still too modest and rely far too much on the voluntary cooperation and public spiritedness of the private sector -- which has shown little of either since the housing and credit crisis began. 
 Pitching the plan on Thursday, the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., asserted that ''it is not too early to suggest appropriate policy responses,'' as if the problems had just started and he was a first-responder. Until Mr. Paulson and the White House develop a real sense of urgency -- and more serious policies -- they are not going to rebuild confidence or ensure that today's problems are not repeated in the future. 
 What is especially frustrating is that many of the administration's proposals aren't new. The House of Representatives passed legislation four months ago that contained some of the same requirements -- but in greater detail and with more muscle. Stronger versions of the proposals are also in bills pending in the Senate, including one that Republicans recently blocked from being considered for debate.
 The administration's proposals call for nationwide licensing of mortgage brokers, whose Wild West approach to lending helped trigger today's record numbers of defaults and foreclosures. That's too timid. The House bill correctly sets licensing as a first step, and then bans or revamps incentives that encouraged so much bad lending.
 A mortgage broker would be required by law to act in the borrower's best interest, not his or her own interest. Making it illegal for brokers to engage in self-serving lending would help end the practice of pushing the most complex and expensive loans possible, simply because they are more profitable for the broker. 
 The administration's proposals also fail to impose accountability on Wall Street firms in the mortgage chain. Instead, they call on bankers to be more diligent. Congress has also struggled against Wall Street's fierce resistance to accountability. But the House bill does give wronged borrowers some leeway -- though not enough -- to sue firms that abetted bad lending by creating securities tied to loans that had no reasonable chance of repayment.
 Rather than address consumer protections head on, the administration's new policy defers to the Federal Reserve, which released draft proposals for better protection and greater disclosure last December. Those ideas, however, are full of loopholes and were widely -- and deservedly -- panned.
 Most egregious, one of the Fed proposals is weaker than banking guidance that urges lenders to verify a borrower's ability to repay before making a loan. The proposed rules may be revised before being issued in final form. But at this point, for Mr. Paulson to pin his hopes on them, without acknowledging their deficiencies, is more alarming than confidence-inspiring. 
 We suppose there is some comfort in the fact that Mr. Paulson is finally focusing on the need for reform. He also acknowledged that regulatory failure contributed to the current economic turmoil. Until the broad statements are backed up by firm detail -- and a serious and urgent commitment to regulatory reform -- the entire effort is more public relations than policy making. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (63%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



345 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 554 words

 BODY:
ADDRESSING THE CREDIT CRISIS Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. outlined a proposal that called on state regulators and the private industry to tighten their oversight of financial markets. 
 THE FRIENDLY COLLECTOR American consumers are in so much debt that bill collecting is one of the fastest-growing businesses. As it grows, the industry is trying to change its reputation. [A1.] 
 A TOXIC BLEND The dollar fell, oil rose, gold hit a record high, retail sales declined and stocks dropped, all testing policy makers and lawmakers who are struggling to contain an economic slump. [C1.]
 The dollar plumbed new depths, trading at $1.56 against the euro, which stirred some fresh tensions with Europe. [C1.]
 A refuge for investors in troubled times, gold traded at a record high of more than $1,000 an ounce, before the price settled at $998.70. [C1.]
 DRUG WORRIES A committee that advises the Food and Drug Administration recommended additional limits on the use of anemia drugs by cancer patients, but did not suggest banning their use altogether. [C1.]
 LIMITED VISAS Seasonal businesses are caught in a Congressional standoff over immigration reform that is punishing employers who play by the rules. [A12.] 
 CHRYSLER CUTS COSTS Chrysler said it would shut down virtually all operations for two weeks in July, a time when it usually closes its assembly plants. [C2.]
 HOLLYWOOD TRIAL In the wiretapping trial of Anthony Pellicano, the comedian Garry Shandling provided embarrassing testimony about Brad Grey, the chairman of Paramount. [C3.]
 I.R.S. IS CRITICIZED Private debt collection used by the Internal Revenue Service costs more money to operate than it brings in, a watchdog said, and the practice should be ended. [C3.]
 NONTRADITIONAL PITCH Pepsi-Cola North America is introducing a line of carbonated beverages with a digital campaign. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C3.]
 PROXY FIGHT A court ruling allows a group of activist investors, led by the hedge fund Jana Partners, to try to take over the board of CNet Networks. [C3.]
 TRADER'S TESTIMONY Jerome Kerviel, the former trader at the bank Societe Generale, continued to press his claim that his superiors knew of his actions. [C4.]
 BIG PAYDAY In a proxy statement, Citigroup revealed that its chief executive, Vikram S. Pandit, received $165.2 million in connection with the sale of his hedge fund, Old Lane Partners. [C4.]
 THE INTERACTIVE EXECUTIVE Hoping to reach the two million shareholders and convince them that the company's shares are worth buying, Jeffrey R. Immelt, above, the chief executive of General Electric, joined in a Webcast to answer their questions. [C5.]
 DEBT DEFAULT Carlyle Capital, a fund that has ties to the Carlyle Group, came to the brink of collapse after discussions on refinancing failed. [C6.]
 HOSTILE TAKEOVER BID Rebuffed by management at Take-Two Interactive, Electronic Arts began a direct tender offer to the company's shareholders. [C8.]
 AOL CHANGES ITS GAME AOL said it would acquire Bebo, the third most popular social networking Web site in the United States, and integrate the site with its popular AOL Instant Messenger. [C8.]
 STEPPING UP PRODUCTION As part of its effort to increase movie production, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer named Mary Parent as chairwoman of its worldwide motion picture group. [C10.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (84%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (77%); TENDER OFFERS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (74%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); IMMIGRATION LAW (70%); EURO (69%); CANCER (68%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (68%); ANEMIA (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%); IMMIGRATION (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); CLOSINGS (65%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); TAX AUTHORITIES (64%); SOFT DRINKS (63%); RETAIL SALES (56%); WIRETAPPING (50%)

COMPANY: PEPSI-COLA NORTH AMERICA (65%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (58%); CBS INTERACTIVE INC (52%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); CARLYLE CAPITAL CORP LTD (50%); TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (50%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GLE (PAR) (58%); GLE (BIT) (58%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); TTWO (NASDAQ) (50%); EA (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561499 ALL OTHER BUSINESS SUPPORT SERVICES (65%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (65%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (73%); VIKRAM PANDIT (50%); JEFFREY IMMELT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



346 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: In Lagging Haiti, First Lady Finds Positive Signs

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti 

 BODY:
Most Haitians are unemployed, but the first lady, Laura Bush, spoke to some of the fortunate few who do have jobs here in the poorest country in the hemisphere during her visit on Thursday. 
 The trip was aimed at putting a positive face on some of the country's social ills and highlighting what the Bush administration considers its success in helping to jump-start Haiti.
 A young man who had dropped out of school told Mrs. Bush how he had learned to repair automobile fuel systems through an American-supported jobs program and now earned a living wage. Several women who have received microloans talked about the small businesses that they had managed to build. Along the motorcade route, however, were thousands of jobless Haitians.
 The first lady heard a classroom of barely literate teenagers in one of the capital's poor neighborhoods reciting a Creole phrase meaning ''I can read and write.'' But that is true for only about half of Haiti's population.
 Mrs. Bush, who stopped briefly in Haiti on her way to Mexico, also met with youngsters who had been infected with H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, but were receiving treatment and training.
 ''Study hard and keep going,'' Mrs. Bush told the students in the elementary Creole class. 
 With AIDS ravaging the populations of many Caribbean islands, Mrs. Bush sought to draw attention to the Bush administration's AIDS relief initiative, which has funneled billions of dollars to Haiti and other affected countries, mostly in Africa. With the backing of the White House, Congress is considering an expansion of the plan.
 ''It's important for young people to know if they do get tested and are H.I.V. positive, there are good things they can do,'' Mrs. Bush said after meeting with two young women and a young man who had tested positive and are getting help from a public health organization called Gheskio, which is supported by Weill Medical College of Cornell University.
 Haiti's infection rate has dropped significantly, from double digits to around 3 percent today. ''It's a real miracle,'' said Dr. Jean William Pape, director of Gheskio, calling the AIDS fight a bright spot in a country that struggles with everything from environmental degradation to illiteracy. 
 The fact that the security situation in Port-au-Prince, the capital, allowed Mrs. Bush to visit at all was seen as a sign of progress here. The last White House visit to Haiti was by the previous first lady, Hillary Rodham Clinton, in 1998.
 ''In Haiti the situation is improving,'' said Jacques-Edouard Alexis, the prime minister. ''We think it is important for foreigners to come here and see that improvement.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Port-au-Prince, Haiti, on Thursday, Laura Bush visited a class for students learning Creole. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); WOMEN (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (76%); LIVING WAGE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MICROFINANCE (69%); VIRUSES (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



347 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: With Eye on Campaigns, House Passes a Budget

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and ROBERT PEAR; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The House passed a $3 trillion Democratic spending plan Thursday as Congress engaged in a day of budget theater that had as much to do with the political bottom line as federal fiscal policy.
 With three presidential candidates on hand, the Senate headed toward a final budget vote as well after easily dismissing a politically charged plan to ban spending for one year on pet projects sought by lawmakers.
 Both parties seized on the annual debate over the spending blueprint as a way to shape the 2008 campaign dialogue and try to force the White House contenders into embarrassing votes or to build opposition to their policy ideas. 
 ''There is a lot of jockeying going on,'' acknowledged Senator Lindsey Graham, the South Carolina Republican who is a close ally of Senator John McCain of Arizona, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee.
 The House voted 212-207 to approve the plan developed by Democrats, which would increase spending on domestic programs like education, health care, veterans benefits and new energy technology while allowing some tax cuts pushed by President Bush to expire in two years.
 ''This budget charts a new direction for America,'' said Representative John M. Spratt Jr., Democrat of South Carolina and chairman of the Budget Committee. ''In returning to balance and funding critical priorities, it strengthens our economy and makes America safer.''
 The House defeated a Republican alternative that would have slowed spending on Medicare and other entitlement programs, permanently extended the tax cuts, invested more in military spending and put a one-year freeze on the Congressional pet projects known as earmarks.
 Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the senior Republican on the House Budget Committee, acknowledged that ''earmarks proliferated on the Republican watch'' in the previous decade. Indeed, Mr. Ryan said: ''Both parties are guilty. That's why we should have a moratorium.'' 
 As the House sought to plow through work before a two-week break, its members agreed to convene in a rare closed session to privately discuss the administration's terrorist surveillance program before a vote Friday on a Democratic measure on the eavesdropping that President Bush opposes. 
 In the Senate, Mr. McCain, eager to cast a symbolic vote against earmarks, swooped in for the all-day budget vote-a-thon as did his prospective Democratic presidential rivals, Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Barack Obama of Illinois. The two Democrats, who also backed the earmark restriction, took time for a private conversation on the floor as they and their colleagues milled about for hours while dozens of votes were taken.
 But their colleagues demonstrated that they were far from ready to forego earmarks and the moratorium proposal fell a whopping 31 votes short of the 60 it needed to clear a procedural hurdle. Forty-five Democrats and 25 Republicans joined an independent in blocking the plan on a 71-29 vote.
 ''We found out tonight that there is only place in American that doesn't get it about wasteful, earmark pork-barrel spending,'' Mr. McCain said after the vote as he took on members of both parties for rejecting the ban.
 The two budgets, which have to be reconciled for a final vote later this spring, are nonbinding and represent no formal action on either spending or taxes. But a final budget serves as the framework for later spending and tax decisions and as a policy manifesto for the majority party. 
 Senate Democrats sought to quickly take the topic of tax cuts off the table. By a 99-1 vote, the Senate extended elements of Mr. Bush's cuts that apply mainly to the middle class, like the $1,000 child tax credit. But a proposal by Mr. Graham to make a similar pledge on lower rates for capital gains and stock dividends was defeated, with Senators Clinton and Obama among those opposing it.
 Mr. McCain, who once opposed the tax cuts, sided with Mr. Graham. ''The one thing we should not do, under any circumstances given our present economy, is to raise taxes on American workers who are already struggling to put food on their tables and gas in their cars,'' Mr. McCain said. 
 Mr. Obama had a different view. 
 ''The notion that we would pile up more mounds of debt, literally borrowing hundreds of billions of dollars to pay for tax breaks for people who don't need them and weren't even asking for them I think is unfortunate,'' he told reporters Thursday. ''I think it's an example of the kinds of flawed fiscal policies that have gotten us in such a hole under this administration and a Republican Congress.'' 
 The margins on the major votes were close, and Vice President Dick Cheney was called in to break an early tie. Also on hand was Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, the frail 90-year-old lawmaker who had been absent for weeks but registered his position on early votes with a pronounced ''yes'' or ''no.''
 Within hours of the House vote, the National Republican Congressional Committee was issuing news releases aimed at three dozen Democrats, accusing them of backing a historic tax increase through their support for the budget.
 But Democrats said they were only setting the stage for eliminating tax breaks for the affluent. Representative Maxine Waters, Democrat of California, said it was appropriate ''to eliminate tax giveaways to the richest people in America'' to generate more money for domestic programs that have been shortchanged.
 In the Senate, Democrats and Republicans offered dueling amendments over the estate tax and the alternative minimum tax. 
 The hour-long secret session approved by the House to discuss the terrorist surveillance program raised concerns among some Democrats who questioned its appropriateness and necessity. The last one was 25 years ago.
 ''It is a very, very serious matter when we do the public's business in secret,'' said Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vice President Dick Cheney, walking through the Capitol, was called in to the Senate on Thursday to cast a tie-breaking vote. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (78%); APPROVALS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MEDICARE (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); MILITARY BENEFITS (72%); VETERANS (67%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); PAUL RYAN (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); JOHN SPRATT (73%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (59%); DICK CHENEY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



348 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: Chief Turns to Webcast to Pitch G.E.

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
Jeffrey R. Immelt, the chief executive of General Electric, is clearly hoping that Marshall McLuhan was right and that the medium is the message. 
 Over the last few years Mr. Immelt has tried everything -- stock buybacks, dividend increases and audio and video messages on the G.E. Web site -- to convince investors that the company's shares are worth buying. But G.E.'s stock is still trading at a multiple below that of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. 
 So Mr. Immelt tried on Thursday to tap the inherent interactivity of the Internet to reach the two million shareholders -- about 40 percent of G.E.'s investor base -- who are rarely invited to the hundreds of meetings that G.E.'s investor relations department runs each year.
 G.E. encouraged shareholders to submit questions through the Internet on Thursday morning. And for a half-hour in the afternoon, Mr. Immelt sat in an NBC studio with Carl Quintanilla, a co-host of the Squawk Box program on CNBC, and Chrystia Freedland, the United States managing editor of The Financial Times, for a Webcast in which he promised to answer those questions. G.E. said it would post answers to many of the others on its Web site on Friday. 
 Although Mr. Quintanilla said that more than 6,000 questions were received, Mr. Immelt actually fielded only a few of them. Instead, most of the half-hour was spent with the two journalists asking him -- and each other -- questions, many of which they said were based on Internet submissions.
 It gave Mr. Immelt a chance to restate facts he has been stressing for some time -- that G.E. has averaged double-digit earnings and revenue growth over the last five years, that its robust overseas sales will more than make up for any slowness because of an economic slowdown in the United States, and that it is in the vanguard of renewable energy and other environmental technologies. 
 He again tried to squelch a persistent rumor that G.E. planned to sell NBC Universal. And he said that G.E.'s financial services businesses were strong and profitable and that he saw the turmoil in the financial services markets as a chance to buy ''inexpensive stuff'' to add to G.E.'s financial portfolio. 
 ''We ought to be trading at a premium to the S.& P.,'' Mr. Immelt said.
 Shares of G.E. closed at $34.25 on Friday, up 29 cents. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeffrey R. Immelt, the chief of General Electric, last year. In an interview for the Web on Thursday, he lauded G.E.'s prospects. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREAS SOLARO/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WEBCASTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DIVIDENDS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); WEB SITES (72%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (66%); WRITERS (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (61%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (91%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (69%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (68%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (91%); GEC (LSE) (91%); GE (SWX) (91%); GE (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



349 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: White House Offers Plan To Ward Off Credit Crises

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON; Vikas Bajaj contributed reporting from New York and Steven Lee Myers from Washington.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
After months of watching a growing credit crisis made worse by steadily eroding home prices, the Bush administration responded on Thursday with the outlines of a plan that officials emphasized is meant more to prevent future crises than to address the current one. 
 The plan, which relies primarily on state regulators and private industry to tighten their oversight of financial markets, calls on states to issue nationwide licensing standards for mortgage brokers. 
 The plan would also require lenders to make more complete disclosures about payment terms to home buyers. And it would curtail possible conflicts of interest at companies that assign levels of risk to packages of mortgages that are sold to investors. 
 ''This effort is not about finding excuses and scapegoats,'' the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., said in his most extensive comments to date about the credit and market problems. ''Poor judgment and poor market practices led to mistakes by all participants.'' 
 But in many ways, the plan relies on the same market participants -- from mortgage brokers to credit-rating agencies and Wall Street firms -- that government officials and other experts blame for the current crisis. 
 Indeed, the announcement came with a fresh round of worsening economic news that is reinforcing the view that the economy has entered a recession. 
 Administration officials said most of the proposals would be executed in the coming months through regulations issued by federal banking and securities regulators, and by new committees run by industry executives. A few elements, like tightening rules for mortgage brokers, may require federal legislation. Bush administration officials said, to avoid burdensome regulation, the plan provides a limited role for the federal government. 
 Democratic lawmakers described the proposal as light and late, while industry representatives welcomed the initiative. 
 The dollar, meanwhile, dropped to new lows against the euro and weakened further against the yen. Lenders again raised interest rates on home mortgages. And fearful investors pushed the price of gold above $1,000 an ounce for the first time. 
 The continued erosion of consumer confidence was seen in a new report that retail sales fell last month.
 The confluence of bad news is testing the administration and lawmakers as they struggle to respond to a slump that began with the mortgage market collapse.
 At the news conference, Mr. Paulson said growing market problems were caused by a series of factors, including mortgage brokers who pushed risky loans on homeowners, conflicts of interest at credit-rating agencies, bond underwriters that loosened standards, and financial institutions that failed to adequately grasp the riskiness of the instruments they were buying and selling. 
 A report issued by an interagency group headed by Mr. Paulson also said that regulatory policies undertaken by the Bush administration had failed to adequately supervise the way financial institutions manage risk. 
 President Bush on Thursday held an unannounced meeting at the White House with four dozen executives from the Business Roundtable, a group representing the nation's largest companies. Along with some of his senior economic aides -- including the United States trade representative, Susan C. Schwab, and Carlos M. Gutierrez, the commerce secretary -- Mr. Bush made remarks and answered questions, a spokesman, Tony Fratto, said. He described the meeting as a routine opportunity to discuss the economy with business leaders.
 ''It was a chance for him to talk about how he views the economy,'' Mr. Fratto said of the president, who is scheduled to give a speech in New York City Friday.
 Some Democrats suggested that the administration appeared to have made the financial regulatory proposals as a political effort to try to limit Congress from taking broader action.
 On Thursday, Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts and Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, the two Democratic lawmakers who head Congressional committees that oversee markets, announced plans to provide billions of dollars to states to buy homes in foreclosure and encourage mortgage lenders to write down the value of mortgages in troubled areas. 
 The proposals, which face significant political obstacles, would permit the Federal Housing Administration to guarantee some loans that would be used to refinance troubled ones.
 ''We have to do something to prevent a deeper recession,'' Mr. Frank said. He said the plan was a reasonable but small first step and was late in coming.
 Democrats in the Senate agreed. ''It's a day late and a dollar short,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York and chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. ''These are the kinds of things that we were calling for a year ago. And the steps are so small that they don't do enough. They need to deal with the current crisis, not the next one.'' 
 Others wondered why the administration was only now beginning to come to terms with such problems as opaque off-balance-sheet transactions at companies and potential conflicts of interest at credit-rating agencies. Such problems were identified in the early years of the Bush administration when Enron, WorldCom and other companies went into bankruptcy after accounting scandals involving similar issues.
 In an interview, Mr. Paulson took issue with that, saying that financial shocks are part of the economic cycle and occur ''every six or eight years.''
 Bristling at Democratic complaints that the plan was too light and that the administration was fundamentally hostile to taking bolder steps, he declared, ''I am not antiregulation.'' But he said the administration had to be careful and not do anything that would be overly burdensome to markets at a time they are already under considerable stress. ''I have emphasized that when we implement these we will be doing it to not create a burden that exacerbates today's stresses,'' he said.
 Mr. Paulson offered few details on how the rules might work and some of his suggestions amounted to little more than demands that investors and financial institutions take greater care in analyzing and managing risks. The details, he said, remain to be developed. But he said after many hours of discussion, he had concluded there was no simple solution to such complex problems.
 ''No silver bullet exists to prevent past excesses from recurring,'' he said, adding that the recommendations were a ''good start'' and that the administration would release a ''regulatory blueprint'' in the next few weeks.
 The report, by the President's Working Group on Financial Markets, which Mr. Paulson heads, said the rating agencies should enforce policies about disclosing their conflicts of interest, an allusion to criticisms that the agencies were typically paid for their ratings by the investment banks but only once they had sold their securities to investors.
 Mr. Paulson also said the president's group would push the rating agencies to ''clearly differentiate'' between the ratings for complicated investment products, which investors may not have understood, and the ratings for more conventional corporate bonds and municipal securities.
 Issuers of mortgage-backed securities, in turn, would be required to disclose ''more granular information'' about the quality of the underlying loans and their procedures for verifying the information in those loans.
 Industry groups praised the plan. ''Combined with private sector efforts already under way, we expect Treasury's proposals will help steer the American economy back on course,'' said Tim Ryan, president of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, a trade group that represents Wall Street in Washington. ''At a time when there is so much concern in the marketplace, Secretary Paulson's leadership and institutional knowledge are vital.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); BONDS (76%); MORTGAGE RATES (76%); CREDIT BUREAUS (76%); SALES FIGURES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); INTEREST RATES (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (71%); RISK MANAGEMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); EURO (62%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (56%); LICENSES & PERMITS (56%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (50%); RETAIL SALES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); HENRY PAULSON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



350 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Pressure Rises in Detroit For Mayor to Quit Quickly

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The swift resignation of New York's governor, Eliot Spitzer, just days after he was linked to a high-priced prostitution ring has put new pressure on the embattled mayor of this city, Kwame M. Kilpatrick, with critics calling for him to step down quickly as well.
 ''Lying under oath, I think most people would think that's more serious a crime than hiring a prostitute,'' the Michigan attorney general, Mike Cox, said on Thursday. ''Eliot Spitzer, whether you like him or not, did put the State of New York above his own interests. But the mayor thinks he's bigger than the City of Detroit.'' 
 Mr. Kilpatrick has vowed repeatedly over the last several weeks he will not quit despite publication of text messages showing that he and his former chief of staff lied under oath when they denied having an extramarital affair, as well as accusations that the city agreed to settle a lawsuit for $8.4 million primarily to hide the affair.
 A Kilpatrick spokesman, James Canning, said the Spitzer scandal should not play into anyone's opinion of the mayor.
 ''You cannot compare these two situations,'' Mr. Canning said on Thursday. ''Mayor Kilpatrick was elected by the citizens of Detroit to lead this city forward, and he will continue to do so.''
 But support for Mr. Kilpatrick seems to have eroded further since Mr. Spitzer announced Wednesday that he was relinquishing his post and after the mayor ended his annual State of the City speech here Tuesday night with unscripted invective denouncing the City Council president and depicting local news media outlets as a ''lynch mob.'' The outburst in the final six minutes of Mr. Kilpatrick's speech included his using a racial epithet during the live television broadcast. 
 That evening, one of Detroit's senior news anchors, Carmen Harlan of the NBC affiliate WDIV-TV, rebuked the mayor in a rare editorial commentary. ''The Kwame Kilpatrick roller coaster,'' Ms. Harlan said, borrowing from a quote from the speech, ''has to stop.''
 The Detroit Free Press broke the news of the scandal involving Mr. Kilpatrick when it published the damaging text messages in late January. In an editorial on Thursday, the newspaper said the mayor should learn from Mr. Spitzer, though it did not specifically call on him to resign.
 ''Spitzer's forthrightness, and his refusal to engage in self-victimization, blame casting or excuse-making is far too striking to go without notice in Detroit at this time,'' the Free Press editorial said. ''Even if you divorce Spitzer's ultimate action -- his quick resignation -- from the comparison, you find too many disappointing ways in which he has been honest where Kilpatrick lied, shown integrity where Kilpatrick eschewed candor, and acted with courage where Kilpatrick has shown cowardice.''
 On Thursday morning, prominent business leaders were conspicuously absent from Mr. Kilpatrick's appearance at a private event organized by the Detroit Regional Chamber.
 Attorney General Cox, who in 2005 admitted to and publicly apologized for his own extramarital affair, also said Mr. Kilpatrick could ''no longer be the mayor.'' 
 Mr. Kilpatrick's speech-ending tirade ''was the last straw,'' Mr. Cox said, calling it ''the severing of his credibility.'' The mayor, he said, ''is not only hurting the city of Detroit, but the whole state of Michigan.''
 The Wayne County prosecutor is investigating whether the mayor should face criminal charges. An announcement is expected within two weeks.
 Mr. Cox accused Mr. Kilpatrick, who is black, of trying to portray himself as the victim of racial persecution to pollute the potential jury pool in the event that he is charged and tried.
 For the first hour of his sixth State of the City speech, Mr. Kilpatrick made only indirect references to the cloud he was under, noting that Detroit residents were fighting tough economic times and ''if they won't quit, I won't quit.''
 But he veered from the final page of the prepared text to say that in the last month he had received messages peppered with a racial slur and other offensive language, as well as threats against him and his family. He accused the local news media of provoking such reactions.
 ''I don't believe that a Nielsen rating is worth the life of my children or your children,'' Mr. Kilpatrick said, waving his finger and prompting a standing ovation from the invitation-only audience of his supporters. ''This unethical, illegal lynch mob mentality has to stop.''
 ''We've never been in a situation like this before,'' Mr. Kilpatrick added, ''where you can say anything, do anything, have no facts, no research, no nothing, and you can launch a hate-driven, bigoted assault on a family.''
 Mr. Kilpatrick's office released a statement on Thursday saying that he had ''acted with courage and conviction in making the public aware of the threats against his life and the lives of his wife and children.'' The statement added, ''It is not the mayor who has resurrected the n-word, nor is it the mayor who inserted race into the discussion.''
 Four members of the Council refused to take their customary seats on stage behind the mayor for the speech. One, Sheila Cockrel, called the end of Mr. Kilpatrick's remarks ''unfortunate'' and ''an indication that the mayor is under an enormous amount of stress.'' 
 But, Ms. Cockrel added, ''it's not anybody but the mayor who's put him in this position.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick denounced an ''illegal lynch mob mentality'' on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ILLEGAL PROSTITUTION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); MAYORS (89%); SCANDALS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PROSTITUTION (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (77%); LITIGATION (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TEXT MESSAGING (68%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (67%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



351 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Betting the Bank

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Four years ago, an academic economist named Ben Bernanke co-authored a technical paper that could have been titled ''Things the Federal Reserve Might Try if It's Desperate'' -- although that may not have been obvious from its actual title, ''Monetary Policy Alternatives at the Zero Bound: An Empirical Investigation.'' 
 Today, the Fed is indeed desperate, and Mr. Bernanke, as its chairman, is putting some of the paper's suggestions into effect. Unfortunately, however, the Bernanke Fed's actions -- even though they're unprecedented in their scope -- probably won't be enough to halt the economy's downward spiral. 
 And if I'm right about that, there's another implication: the ugly economics of the financial crisis will soon create some ugly politics, too.
 To understand what's going on, you have to know a bit about how monetary policy usually operates. 
 The Fed's economic power rests on the fact that it's the only institution with the right to add to the ''monetary base'': pieces of green paper bearing portraits of dead presidents, plus deposits that private banks hold at the Fed and can convert into green paper at will. 
 When the Fed is worried about the state of the economy, it basically responds by printing more of that green paper, and using it to buy bonds from banks. The banks then use the green paper to make more loans, which causes businesses and households to spend more, and the economy expands.
 This process can be almost magical in its effects: a committee in Washington gives some technical instructions to a trading desk in New York, and just like that, the economy creates millions of jobs.
 But sometimes the magic doesn't work. And this is one of those times.
 These days, it's rare to get through a week without hearing about another financial disaster. Some of this is unavoidable: there's nothing Mr. Bernanke can or should do to prevent people who bet on ever-rising house prices from losing money. But the Fed is trying to contain the damage from the collapse of the housing bubble, keeping it from causing a deep recession or wrecking financial markets that had nothing to do with housing.
 So Mr. Bernanke and his colleagues have been doing the usual thing: printing up green paper and using it to buy bonds. Unfortunately, the policy isn't having much effect on the things that matter. Interest rates on government bonds are down -- but financial chaos has made banks unwilling to take risks, and it's getting harder, not easier, for businesses to borrow money. 
 As a result, the Fed's attempt to avert a recession has almost certainly failed. And each new piece of economic data -- like the news that retail sales fell last month -- adds to fears that the recession will be both deep and long.
 So now the Fed is following one of the options suggested in that 2004 paper, which was about things to do when conventional monetary policy isn't getting any traction. Instead of following its usual practice of buying only safe U.S. government debt, the Fed announced this week that it would put $400 billion -- almost half its available funds -- into other stuff, including bonds backed by, yes, home mortgages. The hope is that this will stabilize markets and end the panic.
 Officially, the Fed won't be buying mortgage-backed securities outright: it's only accepting them as collateral in return for loans. But it's definitely taking on some mortgage risk. Is this, to some extent, a bailout for banks? Yes.
 Still, that's not what has me worried. I'm more concerned that despite the extraordinary scale of Mr. Bernanke's action -- to my knowledge, no advanced-country's central bank has ever exposed itself to this much market risk -- the Fed still won't manage to get a grip on the economy. You see, $400 billion sounds like a lot, but it's still small compared with the problem.
 Indeed, early returns from the credit markets have been disappointing. Indicators of financial stress like the ''TED spread'' (don't ask) are a little better than they were before the Fed's announcement -- but not much, and things have by no means returned to normal.
 What if this initiative fails? I'm sure that Mr. Bernanke and his colleagues are frantically considering other actions that they can take, but there's only so much the Fed -- whose resources are limited, and whose mandate doesn't extend to rescuing the whole financial system -- can do when faced with what looks increasingly like one of history's great financial crises. 
 The next steps will be up to the politicians.
 I used to think that the major issues facing the next president would be how to get out of Iraq and what to do about health care. At this point, however, I suspect that the biggest problem for the next administration will be figuring out which parts of the financial system to bail out, how to pay the cleanup bills and how to explain what it's doing to an angry public. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); RECESSION (89%); HOUSING MARKET (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (86%); BONDS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (74%); HOUSING BUBBLE (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); JOB CREATION (67%); HOME PRICES (65%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (64%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (60%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



352 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBTUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: The Vision Thing

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KUUSISTO. 
Stephen Kuusisto, who teaches creative nonfiction writing at the University of Iowa, is the author, most recently, of ''Eavesdropping: A Memoir of Blindness and Listening.''

DATELINE: Iowa City 

 BODY:
 WHEN David Paterson takes the oath of office in Albany on Monday, he will not only become the third African-American governor since Reconstruction, he will also be the first legally blind chief state executive. I think it's a safe bet that Governor Paterson's visual impairment will be harder for the public to understand than his race. 
 Blindness is often thought of as an either-or condition: a person can see or he can't. Terms like ''low vision'' or ''legal blindness'' are mysterious. Spotting me with my guide dog in Grand Central Terminal when I was in New York recently, a stranger asked: ''How blind are you? I mean, you don't look blind.'' I told him I can see colors and fog. ''Oh,'' he said with obvious puzzlement, ''colors and fog.'' 
 Tens of thousands of people with severely limited vision or who are legally blind have delicate and even intricate forms of sight. I think of it as like living inside a painting by Jackson Pollock -- our sight is real but hard to explain. The images are sometimes indecipherable. 
 David Paterson's blindness isn't identical to mine. He lost his vision because of a childhood illness. I was born prematurely and my retinas were damaged by incubation. He can see some images with his right eye and nothing with his left. I see the world from inside an abstract painting. Still, we're almost the same age and both of us were sent to public schools in the early '60s, an era when visually impaired children didn't usually receive a mainstream education. We both learned early on how to make serious use of our ears. I imagine the future governor's information-gathering skills are supple and inexhaustible. 
 Blind people are invariably creative and resourceful. Obviously we're good listeners. But what people may not know is that learning to have a keen sense for what others are talking about requires developing an equally sharp curiosity about human beings. When people talk to me, I can't just listen; I am also compelled to take stock of the person behind the words. This means asking questions that might not occur to people who can see. One of my students recently observed that I ask people in my classes to explain the things that they customarily overlook. ''You ask things like 'What was the first thing you said to yourself this morning?''' she pointed out. ''You challenge us to recall the forgotten things.'' 
 I can't afford forgotten things. Blind folks must constantly keep track of what we learn and memorize our surroundings. For us, an unfamiliar setting that a sighted person could map out in a glance is a puzzle that requires agile problem-solving. On occasion we even need to ask strangers for advice. 
 New Yorkers will no doubt discover that Mr. Paterson will take great interest in the details of governance and that this will require him to take sincere interest in people. He'll ask more questions than your average politician. And those who work in his administration will find that they are important not simply for knowing things but because they can describe how they learned those things in the first place. That's perhaps the most important thing for the public to understand about professionals who are blind -- we are by nature tireless in acquiring information, and we remember virtually every detail of what we read or hear. 
 Sometimes I ask my students to notice the words they're saying, and then I ask them to listen once more to the things they may have missed. In the world of blindness this skill is part of ''orientation and mobility.'' Blind people can navigate independently because they can interpret what they hear. They can differentiate between the sound of traffic moving forward and cars in the turning lane. And yes, if you have a visual impairment you are likely practiced at being patient. 
 I'm guessing there are some who wonder whether a blind man is up to the job of governing the Empire State. Even though there are 10 million blind or visually impaired Americans, many people have never seen one of them in a job of such responsibility -- or in any professional role at all. Even though it has been close to 20 years since the adoption of the Americans With Disabilities Act, the unemployment rate for the blind is estimated to be 70 percent. In this era of superb computer screen-reading software and talking P.D.A. devices, when many blind Americans are college graduates, this statistic implies that the public still doesn't fully understand how talented visually impaired professionals are. 
 That's fine. New Yorkers once underestimated Franklin Roosevelt. Now David Paterson can show how a legally blind person can lead.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 19, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on the Op-Ed page on Friday, about blindness, misidentified the nation's first legally blind governor. He was Bob Cowley Riley, who was governor of Arkansas for 11 days in 1975; David Paterson is not the first.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JUDE BUFFUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLINDNESS (93%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); VISION IMPAIRMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); CORNEA & RETINA DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); DOGS (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); PAINTING (66%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



353 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-11 
 Iraqi Archbishop's Body Is Found After Kidnapping
 The body of Archbishop Paulos Faraj Rahho, leader of the Chaldean Catholic Church in Mosul, was found two weeks after he was abducted. A10 
 China Cracks Down in Tibet
 Chinese security forces were reportedly surrounding three monasteries outside the Tibetan capital after hundreds of monks took to the streets in what are believed to be the largest Tibetan protests against Chinese rule in two decades. A3 
 Palestinians Unite in Anger
 In a display of Palestinian unity rarely seen since the militant Islamic group Hamas seized power in Gaza, a general strike was observed as thousands of men and women attended prayers and the funerals for four local militants killed by Israeli undercover forces in a raid. A11 
 U.S. Studies FARC Records
 A senior American official said that American investigative teams were working to pull information from recently seized computers to try to better understand the operations of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC. A8 
 Ahmadinejad Ally Now Critic
 Mohammad Khoshchehreh, an economist running for re-election to Iran's Parliament, used to appear often on behalf of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Now he is one of Mr. Ahmadinejad's most outspoken critics. A9 
 NATIONALA12-18
 In Day of Political Theater, House Passes Budget 
 The House passed a $3 trillion Democratic spending plan as Congress engaged in a day of budget theater that had as much to do with the political bottom line as federal fiscal policy.A17
 Because of a cap on work visas resulting from a Congressional standoff on immigration, small-business owners across the country say they are scrambling to find replacements for foreign workers who can't fill seasonal job openings.A12
 Obama Discloses Earmarks
 Senator Barack Obama disclosed three years' worth of earmarked spending requests, and his campaign challenged Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton to do the same.A14
 The chairwoman of Florida's Democratic Party promoted her plan for a new mail-in primary for the state's 4.2 million registered Democrats but conceded the embattled plan had little chance of survival.A14
 Scandal Echoes in Detroit
 The swift resignation of New York's governor, Eliot Spitzer, after he was linked to a prostitution ring has put new pressure on Detroit's embattled mayor.A12
 Chicago Police Shake-Up
 New police commanders have been assigned to almost every district in Chicago in an effort to improve internal affairs of the city's long-troubled police force, the department announced.A12
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-8
 New York's Next Governor Addresses the Press
 Lt. Gov. David A. Paterson gave his first news conference as governor- in-waiting -- with sorrow, seriousness and a dollop of humor -- since Eliot Spitzer's resignation. He pledged his continued commitment to Mr. Spitzer's agenda, but broke markedly with the governor's style. A1 
 Federal prosecutors are investigating whether Mr. Spitzer used campaign funds in connection with his meetings with prostitutes, including payments for hotels or ground transportation, people with knowledge of the investigation said. A1 
 BUSINESS DAYC1-10 
 Averting the Next Crisis
 The Bush administration outlined a plan to prevent a future credit crisis like the one that now grips the economy. Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. blamed financial institutions that failed to grasp the risk involved in complex securities instruments. A1 
 U.S. Economy in a Vise
 The dollar slipped as the prices of oil and gold hit new records. Mortgage rates rose and retail sales fell. C1
 As the dollar weakens, those who hold it diversify to other currencies, sending it down further. C1
 Today in BusinessC2 
 EDITORIALSA22-23
 Editorials: Not too early?; preventing another genocide; HUD has mail; Eduardo Porter on calculating how much to spend today on arresting global warming to keep the future from boiling over.
 Columns: Paul Krugman and David Brooks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); GOVERNORS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); HAMAS (75%); WOMEN (75%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); IMMIGRATION (69%); PROSTITUTION (69%); FOREIGN LABOR (69%); SEASONAL WORKERS (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%); SMALL BUSINESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (90%); HAMAS (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (74%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); ELIOT SPITZER (51%); DAVID PATERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (91%); XIZANG, CHINA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) TIBET (95%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAQ (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



354 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE LONG RUN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2234 words

HEADLINE: The Free-Spirited Wanderer Who Shaped Obama's Path

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT

 BODY:
 In the capsule version of the Barack Obama story, his mother is simply the white woman from Kansas. The phrase comes coupled alliteratively to its counterpart, the black father from Kenya. On the campaign trail, he has called her his ''single mom.'' But neither description begins to capture the unconventional life of Stanley Ann Dunham Soetoro, the parent who most shaped Mr. Obama.
 Kansas was merely a way station in her childhood, wheeling westward in the slipstream of her furniture-salesman father. In Hawaii, she married an African student at age 18. Then she married an Indonesian, moved to Jakarta, became an anthropologist, wrote an 800-page dissertation on peasant blacksmithing in Java, worked for the Ford Foundation, championed women's work and helped bring microcredit to the world's poor.
 She had high expectations for her children. In Indonesia, she would wake her son at 4 a.m. for correspondence courses in English before school; she brought home recordings of Mahalia Jackson, speeches by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. And when Mr. Obama asked to stay in Hawaii for high school rather than return to Asia, she accepted living apart -- a decision her daughter says was one of the hardest in Ms. Soetoro's life. 
 ''She felt that somehow, wandering through uncharted territory, we might stumble upon something that will, in an instant, seem to represent who we are at the core,'' said Maya Soetoro-Ng, Mr. Obama's half-sister. ''That was very much her philosophy of life -- to not be limited by fear or narrow definitions, to not build walls around ourselves and to do our best to find kinship and beauty in unexpected places.''
 Ms. Soetoro, who died of ovarian cancer in 1995, was the parent who raised Mr. Obama, the Illinois senator running for the Democratic presidential nomination. He barely saw his father after the age of 2. Though it is impossible to pinpoint the imprint of a parent on the life of a grown child, people who knew Ms. Soetoro well say they see her influence unmistakably in Mr. Obama.
 They were close, her friends and his half-sister say, though they spent much of their lives with oceans or continents between them. He would not be where he is today, he has said, had it not been for her. Yet he has also made some different choices -- marrying into a tightly knit African-American family rooted in the South Side of Chicago, becoming a churchgoing Christian, publicly recounting his search for his identity as a black man.
 Some of what he has said about his mother seems tinged with a mix of love and regret. He has said his biggest mistake was not being at her bedside when she died. And when The Associated Press asked the candidates about ''prized keepsakes'' -- others mentioned signed baseballs, a pocket watch, a ''trophy wife'' -- Mr. Obama said his was a photograph of the cliffs of the South Shore of Oahu in Hawaii where his mother's ashes were scattered.
 ''I think sometimes that had I known she would not survive her illness, I might have written a different book -- less a meditation on the absent parent, more a celebration of the one who was the single constant in my life,'' he wrote in the preface to his memoir, ''Dreams From My Father.'' He added, ''I know that she was the kindest, most generous spirit I have ever known, and that what is best in me I owe to her.''
 In a campaign in which Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, has made liberal use of his globe-trotting 96-year-old mother to answer suspicions that he might be an antique at 71, Mr. Obama, who declined to be interviewed for this article, invokes his mother's memory sparingly. In one television advertisement, she appears fleetingly -- porcelain-skinned, raven-haired and holding her toddler son. ''My mother died of cancer at 53,'' he says in the ad, which focuses on health care. ''In those last painful months, she was more worried about paying her medical bills than getting well.''
 'A Very, Very Big Thinker'
 He has described her as a teenage mother, a single mother, a mother who worked, went to school and raised children at the same time. He has credited her with giving him a great education and confidence in his ability to do the right thing. But, in interviews, friends and colleagues of Ms. Soetoro shed light on a side of her that is less well known.
 ''She was a very, very big thinker,'' said Nancy Barry, a former president of Women's World Banking, an international network of microfinance providers, where Ms. Soetoro worked in New York City in the early 1990s. ''I think she was not at all personally ambitious, I think she cared about the core issues, and I think she was not afraid to speak truth to power.''
 Her parents were from Kansas -- her mother from Augusta, her father from El Dorado, a place Mr. Obama first visited in a campaign stop in January. Stanley Ann (her father wanted a boy so he gave her his name) was born on an Army base during World War II. The family moved to California, Kansas, Texas and Washington in restless pursuit of opportunity before landing in Honolulu in 1960.
 In a Russian class at the University of Hawaii, she met the college's first African student, Barack Obama. They married and had a son in August 1961, in an era when interracial marriage was rare in the United States. Her parents were upset, Senator Obama learned years later from his mother, but they adapted. ''I am a little dubious of the things that people from foreign countries tell me,'' the senator's grandmother told an interviewer several years ago.
 The marriage was brief. In 1963, Mr. Obama left for Harvard, leaving his wife and child. She then married Lolo Soetoro, an Indonesian student. When he was summoned home in 1966 after the turmoil surrounding the rise of Suharto, Ms. Soetoro and Barack followed.
 Those choices were not entirely surprising, said several high school friends of Ms. Soetoro, whom they remembered as unusually intelligent, curious and open. She never dated ''the crew-cut white boys,'' said one friend, Susan Blake: ''She had a world view, even as a young girl. It was embracing the different, rather than that ethnocentric thing of shunning the different. That was where her mind took her.''
 Her second marriage faded, too, in the 1970s. Ms. Soetoro wanted to work, one friend said, and Mr. Soetoro wanted more children. He became more American, she once said, as she became more Javanese. ''There's a Javanese belief that if you're married to someone and it doesn't work, it will make you sick,'' said Alice G. Dewey, an anthropologist and friend. ''It's just stupid to stay married.''
 That both unions ended is beside the point, some friends suggested. Ms. Soetoro remained loyal to both husbands and encouraged her children to feel connected to their fathers. (In reading drafts of her son's memoir, Mr. Obama has said, she did not comment upon his depiction of her but was ''quick to explain or defend the less flattering aspects of my father's character.'')
 ''She always felt that marriage as an institution was not particularly essential or important,'' said Nina Nayar, who later became a close friend of Ms. Soetoro. What mattered to her, Ms. Nayar said, was to have loved deeply.
 By 1974, Ms. Soetoro was back in Honolulu, a graduate student and raising Barack and Maya, nine years younger. Barack was on scholarship at a prestigious prep school, Punahou. When Ms. Soetoro decided to return to Indonesia three years later for her field work, Barack chose not to go.
 ''I doubted what Indonesia now had to offer and wearied of being new all over again,'' he wrote in his memoir. ''More than that, I'd arrived at an unspoken pact with my grandparents: I could live with them and they'd leave me alone so long as I kept my trouble out of sight.'' During those years, he was ''engaged in a fitful interior struggle. I was trying to raise myself to be a black man in America.'' Ms. Soetoro-Ng recalled her mother's quandary. ''She wanted him to be with her,'' Ms. Soetoro-Ng said. But she added: ''Although it was painful to be separated from him for his last four years of high school, she recognized that it was perhaps the best thing for him. And she had to go to Indonesia at that time.''
 That time apart was hard for both mother and son.
 ''She longed for him,'' said Georgia McCauley, who became a friend of Ms. Soetoro in Jakarta. Barack spent summers and Christmas vacations with his mother; they communicated by letters, his illustrated with cartoons. Her first topic of conversation was always her son, her female friends said. As for him, he was grappling with questions of racial identity, alienation and belonging.
 ''There were certainly times in his life in those four years when he could have used her presence on a more daily basis,'' Ms. Soetoro-Ng said. ''But I think he did all right for himself.''
 Fluent in Indonesian, Ms. Soetoro moved with Maya first to Yogyakarta, the center of Javanese handicrafts. A weaver in college, she was fascinated with what Ms. Soetoro-Ng calls ''life's gorgeous minutiae.'' That interest inspired her study of village industries, which became the basis of her 1992 doctoral dissertation.
 ''She loved living in Java,'' said Dr. Dewey, who recalled accompanying Ms. Soetoro to a metalworking village. ''People said: 'Hi! How are you?' She said: 'How's your wife? Did your daughter have the baby?' They were friends. Then she'd whip out her notebook and she'd say: 'How many of you have electricity? Are you having trouble getting iron?' '' 
 She became a consultant for the United States Agency for International Development on setting up a village credit program, then a Ford Foundation program officer in Jakarta specializing in women's work. Later, she was a consultant in Pakistan, then joined Indonesia's oldest bank to work on what is described as the world's largest sustainable microfinance program, creating services like credit and savings for the poor.
 Visitors flowed constantly through her Ford Foundation office in downtown Jakarta and through her house in a neighborhood to the south, where papaya and banana trees grew in the front yard and Javanese dishes like opor ayam were served for dinner. Her guests were leaders in the Indonesian human rights movement, people from women's organizations, representatives of community groups doing grass-roots development.
 ''I didn't know a lot of them and would often ask after, 'Who was that?' '' said David S. McCauley, now an environmental economist at the Asian Development Bank in Manila, who had the office next door. ''You'd find out it was the head of some big organization in with thousands of members from central Java or someplace, somebody that she had met some time ago, and they would make a point of coming to see her when they came to Jakarta.''
 An Exacting Idealist
 As a mother, Ms. Soetoro was both idealistic and exacting. Friends describe her as variously informal and intense, humorous and hardheaded. She preached to her young son the importance of honesty, straight talk, independent judgment. When he balked at her early-morning home schooling, she retorted, ''This is no picnic for me either, buster.''
 When Barack was in high school, she confronted him about his seeming lack of ambition, Mr. Obama wrote. He could get into any college in the country, she told him, with just a little effort. (''Remember what that's like? Effort?'') He says he looked at her, so earnest and sure of his destiny: ''I suddenly felt like puncturing that certainty of hers, letting her know that her experiment with me had failed.''
 Ms. Soetoro-Ng, who herself became an anthropologist, remembers conversations with her mother about philosophy or politics, books, esoteric Indonesian woodworking motifs. One Christmas in Indonesia, Ms. Soetoro found a scrawny tree and decorated it with red and green chili peppers and popcorn balls.
 ''She gave us a very broad understanding of the world,'' her daughter said. ''She hated bigotry. She was very determined to be remembered for a life of service and thought that service was really the true measure of a life.'' Many of her friends see her legacy in Mr. Obama -- in his self-assurance and drive, his boundary bridging, even his apparent comfort with strong women. Some say she changed them, too.
 ''I feel she taught me how to live,'' said Ms. Nayar, who was in her 20s when she met Ms. Soetoro at Women's World Banking. ''She was not particularly concerned about what society would say about working women, single women, women marrying outside their culture, women who were fearless and who dreamed big.''
 The Final Months
 After her diagnosis, Ms. Soetoro spent the last months of her life in Hawaii, near her mother. (Her father had died.) Mr. Obama has recalled talking with her in her hospital bed about her fears of ending up broke. She was not ready to die, he has said. Even so, she helped him and Maya ''push on with our lives, despite our dread, our denials, our sudden constrictions of the heart.''
 She died in November 1995, as Mr. Obama was starting his first campaign for public office. After a memorial service at the University of Hawaii, one friend said, a small group of friends drove to the South Shore in Oahu. With the wind whipping the waves onto the rocks, Mr. Obama and Ms. Soetoro-Ng placed their mother's ashes in the Pacific, sending them off in the direction of Indonesia.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 19, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about Senator Barack Obama's mother misidentified the profession of his half-sister, Maya Soetoro-Ng. She has a Ph.D. in comparative education and works as a teacher; she is not an anthropologist.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stanley Ann Dunham Soetoro with son Barack in Hawaii. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COURTESY OF THE OBAMA FAMILY) (pg. A1)
IN UNCONVENTIONAL WOMAN: Stanley Ann Dunham Soetoro, Senator Barack Obama's mother, on a trip to Indonesia from 1988 to 1992. She married an Indonesian, moved to Jakarta and became an anthropologist (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF THE OBAMA FAMILY) (pg. A19)
INDONESIA: Ms. Soetoro, right, in an Indonesian village during her field trip from 1988 to 1992 (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF THE OBAMA FAMILY) (pg. A19)
A CANDIDATE'S MOTHER: Ms. Soetoro, above, on her Indonesian trip. She died in 1995 of cancer. At left, Mr. Obama in 1990 when he was elected president of the Law Review at Harvard. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY COURTESY OF THE OBAMA FAMILY
 JOE WRINN/HARVARD UNIVERSITY) (pg. A19). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FAMILY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); CHILDREN (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (73%); MICROFINANCE (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (54%); OVARIAN CANCER (50%); CANCER (50%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (72%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) HAWAII, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); KENYA (90%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



355 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: Reaching Out, Paterson Offers Different Tone

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; Danny Hakim, Trymaine Lee and Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting from Albany.

 BODY:
With sorrow, seriousness and a dollop of humor, Lt. Gov. David A. Paterson opened his first full day as governor-in-waiting Thursday, pledging his continued commitment to Gov. Eliot Spitzer's agenda but breaking markedly with the governor's style. 
 In a flurry of meetings with legislative leaders, news conferences and briefings, Mr. Paterson began quickly laying the groundwork for when he is formally sworn in as governor on Monday.
 At a news conference in Albany, he said he would try to govern through consensus and declined to rule out an income tax increase, and then took questions from an overflow crowd of reporters.
 And when asked whether he, like Mr. Spitzer, had ever patronized a prostitute, Mr. Paterson could not suppress his trademark dagger wit. 
 He paused, gave a sly smile, and answered, ''Only the lobbyists.''
 The tone Mr. Paterson set in his appearances was the most marked shift from Mr. Spitzer, who favored stern and high-flying oratory over self-deprecating humor. 
 ''I kind of feel like the student who's getting ready for the final exam but they didn't attend any classes,'' Mr. Paterson conceded Thursday morning in an interview broadcast from the Capitol on radio station WGDJ. 
 In his remarks to reporters, Mr. Paterson signaled that he would remain committed to most of Mr. Spitzer's priorities, including the broad outlines of the governor's budget plan, a push for more restrictions on campaign donations, and a $1 billion public investment fund to invigorate the upstate economy.
 ''I promised the governor yesterday that I would commit myself to the people of this great state, that we would have stability and continuity in those challenges that lie ahead,'' said Mr. Paterson, a Democrat, at the news conference.
 Unlike Mr. Spitzer, Mr. Paterson, who has favored tax increases on the wealthy in the past, did not rule out raising taxes to balance the budget for the next fiscal year, which begins April 1. The Assembly is pushing for a measure that would increase taxes on those earning more than $1 million to 7.7 percent from 6.85 percent.
 Briefly addressing Mr. Spitzer's future, Mr. Paterson, 53, said he considers the governor a close friend, adding, ''In my heart I feel he has suffered enough.'' He acknowledged that some people might feel that prosecutors should pursue criminal charges against Mr. Spitzer.
 ''That is why we have dispassionate law enforcement that looks into these situations,'' he said. ''We should leave it in their hands, and support them, which I do.''
 In ways large and small, Mr. Spitzer's presence at the Capitol had already begun to fade. His belongings were being packed into boxes and his office desk cleared of the family photos that once adorned it.
 Christine Anderson, a spokeswoman for the governor's office, said the staff of the executive chamber had already started to take bills to Mr. Paterson that had been awaiting Mr. Spitzer's signature. 
 Mr. Paterson kept up a hectic pace of meetings with his future partners in government, including Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, and Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker. Mr. Paterson consulted with the state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, on Wednesday. Mr. DiNapoli has said his office is auditing Mr. Spitzer's travel records to determine whether he spent state money in arranging or traveling to his liaisons with prostitutes. 
 It was his wish to give himself time to become acclimated, Mr. Paterson said, that led him to ask Mr. Spitzer to hold off formally resigning until Monday.
 ''I wanted to spend today not being sworn in, or speaking, or in any way celebrating,'' he said. ''I wanted to come in here, meet with the legislative leaders, get back to work on some of those points where I need to be updated on where the budget process is now -- do that for a few days.''
 On Thursday morning, Mr. Paterson met with Mr. Spitzer's staff members, in part to assure aides that the transition between administrations would be smooth and that there would be no wholesale housecleaning of the executive chamber. 
 Mr. Paterson also spoke with Mr. Spitzer on Thursday, Ms. Anderson said, and is likely to do so often as the transition progresses. Mr. Spitzer will have no formal role in Mr. Paterson's administration, however, and is not expected to exercise his powers as governor or appear in Albany, she said. 
 Mr. Paterson acknowledged in his radio appearance Thursday morning that as lieutenant governor, he had not been closely involved in formulating Mr. Spitzer's budget plan. Later in the day, he said he planned to meet all weekend with agency heads and budget officials to prepare better for the budget negotiations.
 The Assembly and the Senate are already moving ahead with their own budget deliberations, and hope to have a final spending plan approved by March 31. Assemblyman Herman D. Farrell Jr., the Manhattan Democrat who heads the Assembly Budget Committee, said the Senate and the Assembly just passed their modifications to the governor's budget plan. Meetings to iron out a compromise are to begin on Monday.
 As he turns his attention to the budget, aides said the incoming governor would retain key members of Mr. Spitzer's staff, including the budget director, Laura L. Anglin, and Paul Francis, the director of operations. 
 The two had been working together to control state spending and find new sources of revenue in the face of a projected $4.4 billion budget gap. 
 Several other Spitzer aides seem likely to stay, at least for now. They include Sean Patrick Maloney, the first deputy secretary to the governor; Bruce Gyory, a senior adviser; and Mr. Spitzer's press team, headed by Ms. Anderson.
 Speaking with reporters, Ms. Anderson said there would be relatively few resignations. 
 But members of Mr. Spitzer's tight-knit inner circle are likely to depart when the governor does. Richard Baum, Mr. Spitzer's top aide and gatekeeper, has already submitted his resignation. He will be replaced by Mr. Paterson's chief of staff, Charles J. O'Byrne, who met Thursday with members of Mr. Spitzer's executive staff. 
 Lloyd Constantine, Mr. Spitzer's close friend, mentor, and adviser, has already submitted a letter of resignation, although he will continue to assist the transition. 
 Some of those likely to depart are aides Mr. Spitzer brought with him from the attorney general's office whom some legislators blamed for Mr. Spitzer's combative approach to governing in his early months in office.
 Changes in staff are not the only ones Mr. Paterson is likely to make. He did not make a commitment to voluntary limits on his own campaign fund-raising, as Mr. Spitzer did when he became governor. Asked whether he would support Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's proposal for congestion pricing to regulate traffic in Manhattan, Mr. Paterson said only that he would take a look at it.
 But in some areas, Mr. Paterson seemed more inclined to revise Mr. Spitzer's rhetoric rather than his policies. Speaking of campaign finance reform, Mr. Paterson did not, as the governor did, pledge to visit the districts of uncooperative lawmakers and publicly lambaste them. Instead, he spoke of trying to reach a consensus with the Senate and Assembly on lowering campaign limits.
 ''We want to not dictate campaign finance,'' Mr. Paterson said. ''We want to really persuade legislators that it really is the root of a lot of the dysfunction we have in Albany.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: David A. Paterson in his first news conference as governor-designate on Thursday, a day of busily preparing for the transition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A1)
Charles O'Byrne, right, Mr. Paterson's chief of staff. Fourth from right, Sean Patrick Maloney, an aide to Mr. Spitzer, who will stay. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A20) PHOTOS
 DIAGRAM: DAVID PATERSON'S ADVISERS: As the lieutenant governor prepares a hurried transition, there are a number of seasoned politicians and consultants upon whom he has relied who could be key members of his administration. And some members of Eliot Spitzer's administration have agreed to stay. (pg. A20) Diagram showing the seasoned politicians and consultants who will be key members of David Peterson's administration. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); TAX INCREASES (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); INCOME TAX (55%); PROSTITUTION (54%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (93%); ELIOT SPITZER (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2008



356 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART IN REVIEW; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: The Golden Graves of Ancient Vani

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

 BODY:
WINE, WORSHIP
 and Sacrifice
The Golden Graves of Ancient Vani
 Institute for the Study of the Ancient World
 15 East 84th Street, Manhattan
 Through June 1
 It turns out that the story of Jason and the Argonauts has some basis in fact. Ancient Greeks did sail across the sea -- the Black Sea -- to Colchis (modern-day Georgia), a land rich in gold and other precious metals. It seems the Colchians had a technique, involving sheepskins, for extracting gold dust from running water -- hence, the Golden Fleece. 
 Now a tantalizing glimpse of Colchian civilization can be had in ''Wine, Worship and Sacrifice: The Golden Graves of Ancient Vani,'' a small inaugural exhibition at the Institute for the Study of the Ancient World. The institute was founded in 2006 by the philanthropist and art collector Shelby White as a scholarly research center, under the auspices of New York University. This exhibition was organized in collaboration with the Smithsonian Institution's Freer and Sackler galleries with help from the Georgian National Museum, which lent all the objects in the show.
 In two small galleries the exhibition presents more than 100 objects unearthed on the site of Vani, a major Colchian city founded in the eighth century B.C. There is beautiful, intricate gold jewelry that once adorned the bodies of luminaries in their graves, where they were buried with many possessions, including slaves and pets. Wine vessels were commonly found in graves, too, as wine production and consumption were central to the Colchian economy.
 Besides highlighting funerary customs, the exhibition demonstrates what a cosmopolitan city Vani had been. It presents artifacts that were evidently produced locally, like three haunting bronze stick figures wearing miniature gold jewelry, and also imported objects like a diminutive bronze representing a satyr in the classic Hellenistic style.
 Two striking bronze lamps or incense burners have functional elements shaped like elephant heads. In one, the heads are realized in a semi-abstract, almost geometric style. In the other, they are rendered so realistically that it is easy to identify them as Indian rather than African elephants.
 The star of the show is a life-size bronze torso of a young man whose classical lines suggest a Greek origin. Metallurgical analysis of the sculpture, which was created in the second century B.C., proved that it was actually made in Colchis, which means some highly sophisticated artists once lived there. KEN JOHNSON

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); CLASSICS (90%); JEWELRY (89%); MAMMALS (88%); FINE JEWELRY (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); SCULPTURE (74%); WINERIES (74%); EXTRACTIVE METALLURGY (71%); ART COLLECTING (68%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (68%); CITY LIFE (65%); CONSUMPTION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (91%); NEW YORK, USA (88%) GEORGIA (88%); UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2009



357 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2008
National Edition

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: The Spitzer Scandal, and the Fallout

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Spitzer Resigns'' (front page, March 13):
 The soon to be ex-governor says that his immediate focus is on his family. It would have been nice, and far more humane, had Eliot Spitzer's focus been on his family while he was reportedly having unprotected sex with a prostitute. 
 Mr. Spitzer and many other powerful men like him do not even allow the consequences of their acts to interfere with their testosterone rush for a single minute. The wives and children are so totally devastated by the actions of men like Eliot Spitzer that they may never recover. 
 Imagine his young daughters at school, having to face the stares and the I-know-what-your-father-did attitudes of their classmates. Mr. Spitzer's beautiful wife gave up a powerful law career to raise their children and support her husband's political career. 
 Well, Mr. Spitzer, we all make choices and we all have to live with the consequences of those choices. I, for one, am ashamed for you and disgusted by you. 
 Henry A. Lowenstein New York, March 13, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In Eliot Spitzer's resignation announcement, the departing governor of New York stated:
 ''Over the course of my public life, I have insisted -- I believe correctly -- that people regardless of their position or power take responsibility for their conduct. I can and will ask no less of myself. For this reason, I am resigning from the office of governor.''
 The hypocrisy of Mr. Spitzer's statement is, I believe fair to state, that had Mr. Spitzer not been caught, he would not be taking the responsibility for his conduct!
 Richard J. Ablin Tucson, March 13, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Thorough reporting in The Times of the Spitzer saga persuades me that the worst aspect of our governor's behavior is not his horrid arrogance or his stunning blindness to his family. It's his professional incompetence.
 Initially, I imagined that he was the unlucky ''victim'' of a wiretap on an illegal business, intended to track someone or something else. Forget that: he was the target from the start, as a result of his own blindness. 
 Required reports from not one but two banks drew investigators' attention to his transactions. This guy has been chasing financial crimes for years, yet he seems to have known nothing about banks' reporting obligations. 
 Where did he think his cases came from? Did he believe his press notices and imagine that the cases came from his energetic investigations alone? 
 Unless he was clinically self-destructive, and trying to get caught, he could easily have worked out his assignations without making humongous cash transfers.
 For so many reasons, we'll all be better off with Gov. David A. Paterson. Let's wish him well. 
 Steven Flanders Pelham, N.Y., March 13, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In ''After Eliot Spitzer'' (editorial, March 13), you suggest that it is now David A. Paterson's ''responsibility'' to clean up Albany. Eliot Spitzer showed that one man, even a human steamroller, can't do it. Reform must be demanded by a multitude of New Yorkers. 
 Jeff Waggoner Nassau, N.Y., March 13, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Unwelcome Surprises'' (column, March 13):
 Gail Collins says she is ''not going to be fooled again'' (by voting for a candidate like Eliot Spitzer), but was she actually ''fooled''? 
 Governor Spitzer was true to his campaign promises; he has been the envy of many of us in other states, where we wish that we had governors who fought for justice and equity for all, who did more than talk about it. 
 In Governor Spitzer, Ms. Collins and all (honest) New Yorkers had a great governor. I can only imagine that many, like me, had hoped that eventually he might also serve the rest of the country by becoming a future president. Even if he sometimes acted bluntly, for 14 months, New Yorkers lived under one of their greatest governorships.
 Despite his personal failing, no one should forget his outstanding service as governor of New York. 
 Jerome Donnelly Winter Park, Fla., March 13, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In ''This Defense Won't Rest'' (Op-Ed, March 13), John Farmer gently critiques the federal government's selective and perhaps unintentional public disclosure of Eliot Spitzer's patronage of the Emperor's Club V.I.P. But the selective disclosure of one client leaves citizens wondering who were the other clients who may also have supported violation of the Mann Act.
 Surely the F.B.I. wiretapped or seized records of the club and can identify them all -- wealthy citizens, politicians, legislators, leaders of our nation? If it wasn't a selective disclosure for political or some other reason, the F.B.I. and others need to provide the identities, if any, of other customers who could be in violation of the Mann Act.
 Joseph R. Marshall Guilford, Conn., March 13, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The Young Woman in Question, 22 and Worried About the Rent'' (news article, March 13):
 Since economic desperation is the foundation of most prostitution, I have a suggestion for how Eliot Spitzer can start to atone for his pathetic transaction. 
 He is the heir to a large real estate fortune and should be able to come up with a handsome chunk of money to endow a trust fund that would temporarily pay the basic living expenses of women arrested for prostitution. 
 This would make a dramatic difference in the lives of these women and serve as a reminder that economic injustice is usually the root of the sad profession of prostitution.
 David Hayden Wilton, Conn., March 13, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Thank you for bringing attention to the recently passed New York State Anti-Trafficking Law, a potentially productive tool that as currently written is not effective in protecting all trafficked persons (''Foes of Sex Trade Are Stung by the Fall of an Ally,'' front page, March 12).
 The governor's office, with the approval of advocates who only focus on prostitution, pushed through controversial provisions in the law, one enhancing penalties for clients of all prostitutes, and another that made trafficking into all sectors other than prostitution a lesser crime. 
 As an organization that works directly with victims of trafficking, we know that prostitution and trafficking are two very different situations, requiring different strategies. Enhancing penalties for clients of sex workers will not ''eliminate the demand'' and end trafficking but instead makes sex workers more afraid, more stigmatized and less safe. 
 The fact that someone with as much to lose as Eliot Spitzer would still visit sex workers speaks volumes about the efficacy of such strategies.
 Sapna Patel New York, March 12, 2008
 The writer is a lawyer with the Sex Workers Project, Urban Justice Center.
 To the Editor:
 Another plus in having a governor who won't be as polarizing as Eliot Spitzer is that David A. Paterson's higher profile sends a powerful message about the capabilities of people with a disability. 
 We haven't had many governors or legislative leaders who are blind or deaf or mobility-challenged, for that matter. Maybe Governor Paterson's new fame will convince the populace that perfect vision, hearing or motor skills needn't be a prerequisite to a deserved major role on the political scene.
 Mr. Paterson obviously has more timely matters to address -- New York's budget and undoing the damage caused by his predecessor come immediately to mind. But it is also hoped that he will, over time, become someone this country sadly lacks: a national advocate for people with disabilities. 
 Perhaps this might induce Hillary Rodham Clinton, Barack Obama and John McCain to look at their campaign teams and ask two questions: Do their disabled to non-disabled ratios match that of the total population, which is roughly 1 to 6? Why not? 
 Robert S. Cole Bronxville, N.Y., March 13, 2008
 The writer is a member of the steering committee of the Westchester Disability Advocacy Partnership.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (65%); WIRETAPPING (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); GOVERNORS (58%); PROSTITUTION (56%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (93%); DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2008



358 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Today In Business

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
 GAMERS KEEP BUYING Video game sales in the United States -- including hardware and software -- jumped 34 percent in February, to hit $1.33 billion, even with two top-selling consoles in short supply, according to data from the market researcher NPD Group. Wii from Nintendo and Xbox 360 from Microsoft have been in such high demand that stores are having a hard time keeping them in stock. The sales figures surpassed what many analysts were expecting. Game hardware sales rose 19 percent in the month, to $480 million, NPD said. Of this, the portable Nintendo DS was the best seller with 587,600 units, followed by the Wii at 432,000. The Xbox 360 sold 254,600 units even amid supply constraints. (AP) 
 Trader Ruling Delayed A French appeals court delayed until Tuesday a decision on whether to release Jerome Kerviel, the former trader at Societe Generale blamed for losses of nearly 5 billion euros ($7.2 billion) at the bank, lawyers involved in the case said. Lawyers for Mr. Kerviel, 31, who is being held in pretrial custody, had requested the hearing to appeal his detention, arguing that there was no risk that he might flee. The 31-year-old former trader has been held since Feb. 8. Prosecutors argue that Mr. Kerviel is still a risk that he could flee or that he contact people who could influence the outcome of the inquiry. (IHT)
 LOSS FOR RETAILER AnnTaylor Stores, the clothing retailer, posted a quarterly loss, hurt by restructuring charges, and forecast profit below expectations. Its fourth-quarter loss was $6.7 million, or 11 cents a share, compared with income of $21.5 million, or 31 cents a share, a year ago. Excluding a restructuring charge, the retailer said it earned 19 cents a share. On that basis, analysts, on average, had been expecting profit of 20 cents a share, according to Reuters Estimates.
 AnnTaylor, which operates the Loft chain in addition to its namesake stores, said quarterly net sales dropped to $600.8 million from $610.5 million a year ago. Sales at stores open at least a year fell 7.8 percent at Ann Taylor stores, which sells clothes women can wear to work, and declined 0.5 percent at the Loft chain, which offers more casual clothing. (REUTERS)
 F.D.A STAFFERS IN CHINA The United States Food and Drug Administration said it would place eight staff members in China as part of an effort to ensure the safety of imports. The inspectors will work out of consular offices in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou if approval is granted by Chinese authorities, the F.D.A . said in an e-mailed statement on Friday. Members of Congress and consumer groups have pressed the agency to improve its oversight after medicines, pet food, toothpaste, seafood and toys imported from China were found last year to be tainted with harmful chemicals. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 I.R.S. CHIEF CONFIRMED The Senate has unanimously confirmed Douglas H. Shulman as commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service. Mr. Shulman, left, has been vice chairman of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, previously known as the National Association of Securities Dealers. He also has served on the bipartisan National Commission on Restructuring the Internal Revenue Service. He will succeed the acting commissioner, Linda E. Stiff. (AP)
 PRODUCTIVITY DECLINE Canadian labor productivity worsened in the fourth quarter, marking the biggest decline since 1995 as workers clocked in more hours on the job even as the economy slowed sharply. Statistics Canada said productivity -- a reflection of economic output per hours worked -- fell 0.8 percent from the previous quarter, when it gained 0.1 percent. The increase in productivity for all of 2007 was 0.5 percent, down from 1.1 percent in 2006, and the weakest gain since 2004. (REUTERS) OIL IN EUROS The Venezuelan energy minister, Rafael Ramirez, said that the country was requiring some contracts for crude, oil product and spot sales to be paid in euros, a move that limits exposure to the slump in the United States dollar. President Hugo Chavez has often criticized Washington for allowing the dollar to slide and wants fellow oil producing nations to consider switching oil pricing to a basket of currencies. (REUTERS) MORE CHAMPAGNE With the thirst for Champagne growing, a French agricultural industry group agreed to expand the official territory in eastern France in which grapes for the famed bubbling wines can be grown. It will take some time for the new vineyards to produce bottles of Champagne, but the goal of I.N.A.O., the Institut National des Appellations d'Origine -- which determines France's wine laws -- is to slake demand that pushed production to record levels last year. The decision was the start of an elaborate process in which the I.N.A.O. will evaluate plots and planting rights. Consumers are unlikely to sip any new wines for 10 to 15 years. (IHT)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER GAMES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TOYS & GAMES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LAWYERS (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); APPEALS COURTS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (64%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (64%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (64%); ANIMAL FOODS (64%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (64%); PET FOODS (60%)

COMPANY: SOCIETE GENERALE SA (91%); ANN INC (68%); NINTENDO CO LTD (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (91%); GLE (BIT) (91%); ANN (NYSE) (68%); 7974 (TSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (68%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (68%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (66%); BEIJING, CHINA (51%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (51%) EAST CHINA (66%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (66%); SOUTH CHINA (66%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2008



359 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Want to Buy Some Pollution?

BYLINE: By IAN BOWLES. 
Ian Bowles is the secretary of energy and environmental affairs for Massachusetts.

 BODY:
LATER this year, Massachusetts and other Northeastern states will hold the nation's first auction of greenhouse gas emissions permits. Congress should take note: this market-based, technology-neutral auction is a model for how to encourage power generators to limit their emissions. And it could provide the foundation for a federal-state partnership to revolutionize energy use.
 Auctions make sense. When Europe first tried regulating greenhouse gases under a cap-and-trade program, in 2005, it gave away, or ''grandfathered,'' emissions permits to its power generators, which made modest changes in their operations and then sold the permits to others at a premium. The result: windfall profits for the power companies. Europe is now switching to emissions auctions and plans to finance programs promoting climate protection, economic growth and energy security with the proceeds. 
 These Northeastern states, members of the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, stand to raise hundreds of millions of dollars annually that can be used to help residential and business customers make the equipment upgrades that will allow them to live and work with less electricity. This will be a welcome investment. But imagine how much more money such auctions could raise if they were conducted by the federal government, and how much we would help the environment if a big chunk of the proceeds were devoted to reducing energy use and curbing emissions in all 50 states. 
 By setting a national cap on greenhouse gas emissions and running a national auction for emissions permits under the cap, the federal government could accrue tens of billions annually. With that money, Washington could offer irresistible financial incentives for the states to do what only states have the authority to do. It is, after all, the states that regulate utilities, determine the locations of power plants, dictate building codes and make land-use decisions. That means the low-hanging fruit for emissions cuts is to be found in the states' orchards.
 For starters, let's consider energy efficiency, which is the principal vehicle for quick emissions reduction at low cost. Roughly 30 percent of greenhouse gas emissions comes from electricity-generating power plants. By employing new technologies (compact fluorescent bulbs and low-emitting diodes, high-efficiency pumps and motors in industrial settings, heating and cooling equipment in office buildings), we can slash energy use and curb emissions produced by electricity generation. 
 Here in Massachusetts, we have cut the annual growth in electricity demand by nearly one-third. Through rebates, incentives and low-interest loans, we've helped business and residential customers reduce their energy consumption and save money at the same time. As a result, Massachusetts has one of the highest gross state products per unit of energy used in the country.
 Gov. Deval Patrick and legislative leaders here are also trying to create a new electricity marketplace where energy efficiency competes directly with power generation to meet growing demand at the lowest cost. That's why Massachusetts is upending a century-old rate structure that rewards utilities for selling as much electricity as possible -- an incentive profoundly at odds with curbing greenhouse gas emissions.
 Other states are taking similar bold steps. California has set big goals for solar power installations and for building designs that promote low energy use. Connecticut has passed a law requiring utilities to invest in cost-effective efforts to promote energy efficiency. Many states have adopted the International Energy Conservation Code or its equivalent for commercial and residential buildings and a handful have redesigned their utility rate structures, as Massachusetts is doing. 
 The point is that these matters are under state, not federal, jurisdiction. As it looks to create a federal climate control program, Congress should take advantage of the federal-state relationship developed under environmental statutes like the Clean Air Act, whereby each state develops a strategy to curb pollution and then is given federal money to carry out that plan once approved. It is a model that recognizes that federal policy is sometimes most easily put into effect by the states.
 The best way to tackle climate change is through a new federal-state compact. Nothing else will do more, and more cheaply, to put the United States on a path to making big cuts in greenhouse gas emissions and building a clean-energy economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ELECTRONIC DIODES (74%); HVAC SYSTEMS (73%); CONSUMPTION (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); LAND USE PLANNING (71%); SALES REBATES (68%); OFFICE PROPERTY (62%)

PERSON: DEVAL PATRICK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2008



360 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Dollar Doesn't Stretch Far in Buying Global Goods

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments in his blog at norris.blogs.nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THE great American appetite for imports is finally waning, but the country is finding that buying less is not the same thing as paying less.
 The monthly trade figures for January, released this week, showed that the overall volume of imports was barely ahead of a year earlier -- and that in some categories, among them consumer goods and motor vehicles -- the volume was lower than it was in early 2007.
 That is a huge change. A year ago, home prices had already started to fall in many areas, but credit was still easy and consumer demand for imports was strong. 
 Nonetheless, the trade deficit edged up in January, and the amount of money being paid for imports is rising at a double-digit rate for the first time since the fall of 2006.
 The accompanying chart shows the trends over time. The figures show the year-over-year change in American imports, using three-month moving averages to smooth the figures.
 One line shows the rate of change in dollars spent on imports. The rate of increase fell last summer, but it is now rising.
 The other line shows the figure after adjusting for inflation in the prices of imported goods, as measured by the government, and can be viewed as a measure of the volume of imports. There, the rate of growth in imports is at its lowest since 2002, when the economy was recovering from the last recession.
 There were long stretches of time -- in the late 1990s and again in 2001 and 2002 -- when import prices over all were falling, so that the volume of imports could rise faster than the amount of money being spent. That helped to spur demand for imports.
 The area with the strongest growth in imports now is capital goods, reflecting the relatively strong financial position of many corporations, which are the buyers for those products. Demand for capital goods is up 4.2 percent from a year earlier, and while that is the smallest gain for that category since early 2003, it is also the main reason that the volume of overall imports is still growing, albeit slowly.
 Imports of motor vehicles, including parts, are now slipping, with the total volume down 2.7 percent from a year earlier. That figure is the lowest since late 2001, when the combination of a recession and the reaction to the Sept. 11 attacks severely slowed imports.
 The figure for consumer goods -- a category that excludes food and cars -- is up just 1.2 percent, the smallest gain since early 2002. That area still has a relatively low rate of price increase, just 1.5 percent in the latest figures. But that inflation rate has been edging up, perhaps because China, a primary source of consumer good imports, has been passing along some of the inflation it has seen in recent months.
 The inflation figures in the chart represent the difference between the increase in dollars spent in each category, and the increase in real spending as calculated by the government. Notably, the current difference of 10.1 percentage points is the largest during the period for which comparable data is available, going back to 1990.
 Part of that reflects falling dollar, which means that goods priced in euros or yen cost more dollars even if the local market price has not increased, but the high figure is also affected by the trend toward added spending on imports whose prices are rising. 
 Six years ago, when the economy was emerging from the last recession, just over a quarter of all money spent on imports went for food or for industrial supplies and materials, the category that includes oil. Now, that proportion is up to 41 percent of import spending.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: U.S. Imports Rise, or Do They?: Annual rate of change in U.S. Imports. Line graph shows annual rate change in U.S. Imports.
 Annual change in spending by category as of January (Source: U.S. Census Bureau, via Haver Analytics) Bar graph shows spending for each category. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (94%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); IMPORT PRICES (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); REAL ESTATE (71%); HOME PRICES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2008



361 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: A Dispute Over Utah Land Intensifies

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

 BODY:
A long-simmering dispute over the best use for millions of acres of federal land has erupted publicly with the request by some Utah legislators that a well-known local environmental organization open its books after two of its directors were sentenced to prison in separate multimillion-dollar bank fraud cases.
 Federal authorities have said that the group, the Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance, commonly called SUWA, was not involved in the cases, which led to the convictions of its treasurer, Mark Ristow, and another board member, Bert Fingerhut, who was once SUWA's chairman. Each man pleaded guilty last year to using stock conversion schemes to swindle banks across the country of a total of more than $15 million. 
 But a letter signed by 45 Utah state legislators, most of them Republicans, asked SUWA to disclose details of its finances, meeting-minutes correspondence and other transactions involving Mr. Fingerhut and Mr. Ristow or occurring during the period of their criminal activities.
 SUWA's leadership and supporters called the letter, written by State Representative Michael E. Noel, Republican of Kanab, a politically motivated effort to discredit the group because of its role in drafting proposed legislation designating about 9.5 million acres in Utah as federally protected wilderness. The land includes much of the state's storied red rock country.
 Congress has designated slightly less than a million acres in the state as federally protected wilderness, the lowest acreage of any Western state, the group said. Once land is so designated, it is closed to new mineral leasing and to use by motorized vehicles. 
 ''In Utah, wilderness is our scarcest resource,'' said the staff lawyer for SUWA, Stephen Bloch. ''To the extent that Representative Noel's efforts succeed in diverting the argument away from how we protect these spectacular public lands, that's unfortunate.''
 The federal legislation, sponsored most recently by Representative Maurice D. Hinchey of New York and Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, both Democrats, has been introduced every Congressional session since 1989. Over the years the number of acres proposed for protection has grown, angering many Utah lawmakers, who contend that restricting use of the land will harm the state's economy.
 ''The members of the Legislature seem to have a lack of appreciation for the fact that these are public lands,'' Mr. Bloch said. ''They view them as Utah lands to be managed for and by Utahans, and we strongly disagree with that.'' 
 Mr. Noel, who has clashed with SUWA over wilderness issues before, said that disagreements with the environmental group were an impetus for the letter. 
 ''These guys push us to the very brink of economic disaster within our state,'' Mr. Noel said, adding: ''It's absurd to take this hammer approach to try and protect the environment. It's way overkill.'' 
 The state lawmakers also argue that the convictions of Mr. Fingerhut and Mr. Ristow raise questions about SUWA's credibility. 
 ''Two of its board members were engaged in fraudulent activities that stole millions of dollars from credit unions,'' said State Representative Aaron Tilton, Republican of Springville, who signed the letter, ''and we want to know if any of that money made its way into SUWA.'' 
 Mr. Tilton is vice chairman of Americans for American Energy, which advocates energy development. The Web site for a campaign the group sponsors, www.stoputahlandgrab.org, ties SUWA's and Representative Hinchey's support for wilderness protection to increased dependence on foreign oil and to aid to terrorists. 
 SUWA's vice chairman, Ted Wilson, a former mayor of Salt Lake City, said his group's leadership was ''shocked to the core'' that Mr. Ristow, a Harvard-educated, retired real estate entrepreneur, and Mr. Fingerhut, a former executive of Oppenheimer & Company, had orchestrated elaborate bank frauds for years.
 Both were respected within SUWA. Mr. Fingerhut was a prolific fund-raiser and, like Mr. Ristow, had been on the board for about 20 years. Each evaded state and federal banking regulations to make illegal stock purchases from banks that were going public, according to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The two men generated millions in personal profits once the stock was sold, according to the commission. 
 ''All of us were just amazed and just felt terrible,'' Mr. Wilson said. ''They'd been at our side for a long time. It hurt deeply.'' 
 Last August, a federal judge in New Jersey sentenced Mr. Fingerhut to two years in prison. In January, Mr. Ristow was sentenced to 20 months.
 The securities commission has never implicated SUWA in any wrongdoing, said David Rosenfeld, an associate regional director of the S.E.C.'s New York regional office.
 ''There are no allegations with respect to that organization in any of our filings,'' Mr. Rosenfeld said.
 Mr. Bloch said SUWA, like other nonprofits, planned to release only information already made public, including its tax forms. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance seeks to have about 9.5 million acres in Utah protected. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAY BLOXHAM/SUWA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); WILDERNESS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); SENTENCING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); MINERAL LEASES (50%)

PERSON: MAURICE D HINCHEY (57%); RICHARD DURBIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (99%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2008



362 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: F.D.R.'s Safety Net Gets a Big Stretch

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
It was an old-fashioned bank run that forced Bear Stearns to turn to the government for salvation on Friday. The difference is that Bear Stearns is not a commercial bank, and is therefore not eligible for the protections those banks received 75 years ago when Franklin D. Roosevelt halted bank runs with government guarantees.
 Bear was, instead, emblematic of a financial system that grew up over the last two decades, one that largely marginalized traditional banking and that enabled lenders to evade much of the regulatory framework that had also begun during the Roosevelt administration.
 The new system enabled loans to be made by almost any financial institution with the money coming from the sale of increasingly complicated securities backed by the loans. 
 Regulators believed that the new system spread out the risk. Alan Greenspan, a former chairman of the Federal Reserve, said the system had transferred risk from banks -- which he called ''highly leveraged institutions'' -- to ''stable American and international institutions.''
 It turned out he was wrong. Much of the risk had remained with commercial banks, but packaged in such a way that they were required to put aside fewer reserves to protect against losses. Much of the rest of the risk ended up with financial institutions that relied on their ability to borrow at low rates whenever they needed it.
 ''A sizable fraction of long-term assets -- assets with exposure to different forms of credit risk--ended up in vehicles financed with very short-term liabilities,'' Timothy F. Geithner, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said last week in a speech. ''As is often the case during periods of rapid change, more significant concentrations of risk were present than was apparent at the time.''
 That risk has come to the fore in the last several months, as several mortgage companies and smaller financial institutions have failed. This week Carlyle Capital, a highly leveraged lender formed by the Carlyle Group, a private equity fund, collapsed. It had borrowed more than $30 for every dollar of capital, and it could not meet demands from lenders that it put up more cash even after it got a $150 million loan from the Carlyle Group.
 Bear Stearns, which boasts that it has never had a losing year in its 85 years, was plagued by rumors that it owned securities it could not sell and that it might be unable to borrow enough money to hold on to the securities.
 In a conference call Friday, Bear's chief executive, Alan D. Schwartz, said that as rumors spread, customers became more nervous, ''to the point where a lot of people wanted to get cash out.''
 At first, Bear could meet those demands, he said. ''But they accelerated yesterday, especially late in the day, and as we got through the day, we recognized that at the pace things were going, there could be continued liquidity demands that would outstrip our resources.''
 Overnight, the Federal Reserve and JPMorgan Chase arranged to provide the cash Bear Stearns needed. Bear could not borrow directly from the Fed because it is not a commercial bank.
 The Fed had seen such problems coming, and had announced plans this week to lend money to major dealers in Treasury securities -- like Bear -- by taking in as collateral mortgage securities that are now hard to sell.
 By coincidence, the demands on Bear Stearns came on the 75th anniversary of the day when American banks reopened after the holiday declared by President Roosevelt when he took office. He assured Americans that only safe banks were being allowed to reopen, although there was no way he could really be sure.
 The rescue of Bear is not permanent -- the loans are for only a month -- and there is an expectation that authorities will seek to arrange for Bear to be acquired, perhaps at a low price, or that it will be broken up and sold to more than one buyer.
 Such an outcome could avoid systemic risk while leaving Bear's top executives without jobs and perhaps deflecting criticism that they had not had to face the results of their mistakes. Bear stock fell 47 percent on Friday; all of the decline came after the rescue was announced.
 Deposit insurance largely ended runs at commercial banks, because depositors with less than $100,000 in a bank believed they did not need to worry even if they heard rumors of trouble.
 But when investors do not have such confidence -- as in Britain last year, where deposit insurance covered only the first $:2,000, or about $4,000 -- the rational response is to grab the money and ask questions later. That was one reason Northern Rock, a British bank, saw its depositors flee and in the end was taken over by the government.
 Mr. Schwartz, Bear's chief, says his firm remains solvent. But such assurances are seldom credited during panics. As Walter Bagehot, the British financial journalist, wrote in ''Lombard Street,'' a 19th-century book on the monetary system, ''Every banker knows that if he has to prove that he is worthy of credit, however good may be his arguments, in fact his credit is gone.''
 At the bottom of the current crisis is a distrust of many financial institutions and securities that goes beyond Bear Stearns. 
 ''This is a credit problem, not a liquidity problem,'' said William L. Silber, a finance professor at New York University who has written about the 1933 crisis. 
 ''The root question is,'' he said, ''Will mortgage borrowers be able to repay their debts? That risk and that uncertainty is still there, and that has brought into question all sorts of credit exposure.'' He argues that because that question cannot be resolved soon, in the end the Treasury will have to do as it did in 1933, and issue broad guarantees.
 Whether or not that happens, the government may have to revise its regulatory system, which, as Mr. Geithner noted, has ''evolved into a very complex and uneven framework, with substantial opportunities for arbitrage, large gaps in coverage, significant inefficiencies and large differences in the degree of oversight and restraint upon institutions that engage in very similar economic activities.''
 He called for ''a more uniform set of rules applied evenly across entities involved in similar functions,'' and added that ''institutions that are banks, or are built around banks, with special access to the safety net, need to be subject to a stronger form of consolidated supervision than our current framework provides.''
 Friday's Fed move shows that investment banks have that ''special access to the safety net,'' a fact that may lead to more regulation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (88%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (66%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (52%); CARLYLE CAPITAL CORP LTD (52%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); CG (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (52%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (52%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2008



363 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 45 words

HEADLINE: QUOTATION OF THE DAY

BYLINE: JAMES L. MELCHER,

 BODY:
If the Fed hadn't acted this morning and Bear did default on its obligations, then that could have triggered a very widespread panic and potentially a collapse of the financial system.
 JAMES L. MELCHER, president of Balestra Capital, a hedge fund based in New York. [A11] 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (86%); HEDGE FUNDS (80%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2008



364 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Bailout Unnerves Investors, And Shares Take Steep Fall

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Shares took a dive on Friday after an emergency bailout for Bear Stearns, the investment bank, rocked Wall Street's confidence in the fragile credit market. 
 Although speculation that Bear was in trouble had swirled for days, the announcement that JPMorgan Chase and the Federal Reserve would step in to prop up the bank seemed to catch investors by surprise. 
 Faced with fresh evidence that even the biggest banks remain vulnerable to the tight credit market, investors scurried for safety, sending the Dow Jones industrials down more than 300 points by midafternoon. 
 The Dow ended with a loss of 194.65 points, or 1.6 percent, to 11,951.09, erasing nearly all its gains for the week. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, a broader measure of the market, lost 27.34 points, or 2 percent, to 1,288.14. The Nasdaq dropped 51.12 points, to 2,212.49. The yield on Treasury bonds fell to 3.47 percent, while the price rose to 100 8/32.
 For the week, the indexes were mixed. The Dow had a slight increase; the S.& P. dipped. The Nasdaq was flat.
 Concerns about tight credit have played havoc with the markets, leading the Dow to three triple-digit sell-offs in the last week alone. Market watchers are worried that banks will be less willing to lend, blocking up the bloodstream of the economy.
 Early Friday, the Fed issued a statement that it would ''continue to provide liquidity as necessary'' to keep the wheels of the financial system turning. But investors seemed to take little solace in the pledge.
 ''It's a little like that saying about the fire truck in front of your house,'' said Brian Gendreau, a strategist at ING Investment Management in New York. ''The good news is that the fire truck's here. The bad news is your house is on fire.''
 Bear Stearns had insisted for days that its finances were in adequate shape, but its chief executive said that the bank's liquidity had ''significantly deteriorated'' since Thursday. 
 ''We took this important step to restore confidence in us in the marketplace,'' the chief, Alan D. Schwartz, said. 
 But confidence remained elusive. Bear's shares lost nearly half of their value, plunging 47 percent, to $30, the lowest level in a decade.
 Shares of JPMorgan lost 4 percent. Financial services firms took a hit, losing the most of any sector in the S.& P. 500. The dollar declined again against the euro. Volatility reached its highest level since January.
 The Bear bailout overshadowed some good economic data: an report on inflation from the Labor Department. The Consumer Price Index stayed flat in February after a dip in energy prices, making way for more aggressive interest rate cuts.
 Some investors expect the Fed to lower rates by a full percentage point when it meets Tuesday. Futures contracts for a full-point cut shot up on Friday, though many economist still predict a cut of half or three-quarters of a point.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INFLATION (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (74%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); EXECUTIVES (62%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); EURO (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (85%); ING GROEP NV (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%); INGA (BIT) (58%); INGA (AMS) (58%); ING (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2008



365 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Costs Surge For Stocking The Pantry

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN and MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The government announced Friday that the cost of food had gone up yet again. This came as no revelation to Bruce Newton, a single father of two children.
 As he wheeled a cart full of groceries out of a Stop & Shop supermarket in Bloomfield, N.J., on Thursday night, Mr. Newton complained that the price of chicken had become ''outrageous,'' and eggs were so costly his mother sent him from store to store hunting for the cheapest ones. Essential breakfast items like milk, cereal and orange juice have become ''so expensive, but what are you going to do?''
 Mr. Newton's pain is being felt in grocery checkout aisles across the country. Government figures released Friday showed that grocery costs had jumped 5.1 percent in 12 months, the latest in a string of increases. In fact, the nation is undergoing its worst grocery inflation since the early 1990s.
 With a few exceptions, nearly every grocery category measured by the Labor Department, which compiles the official inflation numbers, has increased in the last year. Milk is up 17 percent, as are dried beans, peas and lentils. Cheese is up 15 percent, rice and pasta 13 percent, and bread 12 percent. 
 No food product has gone up as much as eggs, jumping 25 percent since February 2007 and 62 percent in the last two years.
 ''It's a great time to be an egg farmer,'' said Paul Sauder, a third-generation farmer in Lititz, Pa. His farm ships eggs to food service customers and grocery stores, including Stop & Shop. ''We've never encountered this kind of run like we've had right now.''
 While food costs increased, overall inflation held steady in February as the cost of gasoline declined that month, according to the latest Consumer Price Index, which the Labor Department updates monthly. That was an unexpected dose of good economic news that opens the door for more aggressive interest-rate cuts by the Federal Reserve, which is trying to head off a recession.
 But many analysts do not expect the lower inflation rate to last. Gasoline prices turned around in March and are setting records every day, hitting a nationwide average of $3.28 a gallon in the most recent report by AAA, the automobile club. That puts more pressure on consumers' pocketbooks as they muddle through an economic slowdown.
 ''It's a temporary respite,'' said John Lonski, chief economist at Moody's Investors Service. ''The renewed ascent of gasoline prices, if nothing else, promises a faster rate of inflation for March.''
 Still, the flat reading on the Consumer Price Index was a welcome development after several months of steadily building price pressures. Consumer prices were unchanged in February, and the closely watched core index, which excludes the prices of volatile food and energy products, also stayed flat.
 With the economy in a significant downturn, and possibly a recession, some had feared a repeat of 1970s-style stagflation. Inflation rose 0.4 percent in January and December, and economists had been bracing for another uptick last month.
 Instead, the Labor Department report showed price declines across a broad range of consumer products, including clothing, personal computers and automobiles. The easing came despite a record-low dollar and a rise in the price of imports.
 The March inflation report, due April 16, ''will capture the extraordinary surge in oil, food and commodity prices that we've seen over the last few weeks,'' said Joseph Brusuelas, chief United States economist at the research firm IdeaGlobal.
 Lower inflation may encourage the Fed to lower interest rates more aggressively at its next scheduled meeting, on Tuesday. Rate cuts promote growth but can push prices higher, and the Fed has struggled to balance its attempts to stave off a recession with the brisk pace of inflation.
 For the year, inflation is still running high. Compared with a year ago, consumer prices were up 4 percent in February, and the core index rose 2.3 percent, higher than the Fed's comfort level.
 If there is a silver lining in the food statistics it is that grocery prices did not increase as much in February (up 0.3 percent from the previous month) as they did in January (up 0.9 percent). 
 But Ephraim Leibtag, who tracks food prices for the Department of Agriculture's Economic Research Service, said that with farm prices remaining near record levels, he was not optimistic that food prices would moderate in 2008. Instead, he predicted that food inflation would be at least as high as in 2007, perhaps higher.
 Mr. Leibtag predicted that cereal and baking products would continue to increase because of steep prices for wheat; in fact, the price of cereal and bakery products increased 1.8 percent in February, the largest monthly gain since January 1975. Economists say higher food costs are being caused by rising energy prices, a weak dollar that encourages exports of American crops and food products, and soaring prices for farm commodities like milk, corn and wheat.
 Whether eggs will continue to lead the way on prices remains uncertain. For the time being, farmers like Mr. Sauder are enjoying the high prices while they last.
 ''Two years ago, everyone was ready to give their farm away because they were all losing money,'' Mr. Sauder said. ''It goes in cycles.''
 The sharp increase in egg prices was caused by a confluence of factors, among them a contraction of the industry because of the slump in 2005 and 2006 and a major increase in feed costs. About three-quarters of feed for laying hens is corn, and the price of corn has been driven up in part by government mandates for production of ethanol.
 Gene Gregory, president and chief executive of the United Egg Producers, said feed costs have increased about $100 a ton in the last year, to $250. Because the cost of feed is so high and its future direction uncertain, many farmers have reduced the size of their flocks, he said.
 ''We are in uncharted waters,'' Mr. Gregory said. ''Egg producers are recognizing higher profits now than they have for many years. But we also realize these things change quickly.''
 At the store in Bloomfield, shoppers complained the other night that food costs have left them reeling. ''I've spent $300 in a matter of two weeks,'' Roseann Fede said. ''It used to be like $150. Milk, eggs, nonperishable things, everything has gone up in price.''
 Jomarie and Rafaelito Ortiz emerged from Stop & Shop with a cart stuffed full of bags, mostly to feed their four teenage boys. Asked whether they have noticed a difference in their grocery bills, Ms. Ortiz said, ''Are you kidding me?''
 ''Our food bills are $600, $700,'' she said, explaining that they were closer to $400 a year or two ago. ''The cereal was astronomical.''
 Her husband agreed and suggested that they might be better off buying a few cows of their own. ''The way food prices are going,'' he said, ''I'm going to buy a ranch.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Phyllis Dull inspecting eggs, top, at Sauder's Eggs in Pennsylvania. No food has risen in price as much as eggs -- more than 25 percent in a year.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C6) CHARTS: Higher Grocery Bills: In recent months, food prices have been rising faster than at any time since the early 1990s.
 Retail food inflation: Year-over-year change in the Consumer Price Index, food at home (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C6) Charts show line graph and bar graph for inflation changes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (91%); FOOD PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CHEESE (78%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); POULTRY (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); GASOLINE (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (75%); RECESSION (73%); CHICKEN EGG PRODUCTION (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); GASOLINE MARKETS (67%); INTEREST RATES (61%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (60%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (61%); STOP & SHOP SUPERMARKET CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (58%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2008



366 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1703 words

HEADLINE: Credit Cards Are Frothy, Not Bubbly

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
A month ago, BusinessWeek ran a cover article essentially predicting that credit cards would be the next shoe to drop in our increasingly precarious economy. ''The party was paid for with credit cards,'' read the magazine's bold cover line. ''The hangover will be a whopper.''
 In the article itself, BusinessWeek had anecdotes about rising defaults, weakened credit card securitizations (all of which, by the way, have triple-A ratings, just as their subprime brethren once did), and lower profits for the big credit card banks like JPMorgan Chase and Capital One. American Express has raised its loan loss provisions by 70 percent; Capital One has put $2 billion aside for loan losses, and might need to do more. And on and on.
 As for consumers, BusinessWeek had no trouble finding people who were facing suddenly higher interest rates and lower credit limits as the companies began taking measures to hold their losses down. Even bankruptcies are once again on the rise -- this despite the tougher bankruptcy law that the banking industry helped pass three years ago. The article ended with a bank analyst saying, ''We're in uncharted territory.'' 
 Yes, we are. As it happens, I spent this week rummaging around the world of credit cards, trying to answer the same question as BusinessWeek. I found my own set of scary statistics, and talked to credible bears who feared the worst. ''Is it a ticking time bomb?'' asked Sean Egan, co-founder of the independent ratings firm Egan-Jones -- and a man who has been prescient about the subprime crisis. ''Absolutely.'' And I watched, via the Web, a Congressional subcommittee hearing aimed at stopping some credit card abuses that have become rampant.
 My initial instinct was also to believe that credit cards would be a rerun of the subprime mess -- as consumers got in deeper and deeper trouble, the pain would move up the food chain, affecting Wall Street and the companies as much as Main Street. Capital One would become the credit card version of Countrywide; securities built around credit card receivables would crumble, just like subprime securities.
 But what I actually discovered has made me question that assumption, and now I'm not so sure it'll turn out that way. Which is not to say there aren't problems with credit cards -- or that many credit card users aren't going to feel a fair amount of pain. They surely are. It's just that, to a maddening degree, credit card companies will actually do O.K. while the rest of us suffer. Annoying, isn't it?
 There are few consumer products that generate as much psychic conflict as credit cards. We love their ability to allow us to buy things on the spur of the moment, and we fear that same ability. We like knowing that we are carrying a $20,000 or $30,000 line of credit in our pockets -- and we worry about the trouble such an unsecured limit can cause. Credit cards enable foolish impulse purchases, but they also make it possible to buy things on credit -- furniture, television sets, refrigerators -- that are absolute necessities. They help us get through crises, but they can also help create crises if we're not careful. 
 Stuart Vyse, a psychology professor at Connecticut College and the author of a new book on the psychology of credit cards, said that ''immediate choices are extremely powerful and difficult to resist'' and that credit cards play into that desire for immediate gratification. He believes that they have played a big role in the fact that the United States now has a negative savings rate.
 Our inner conflict over credit cards has been there, really, ever since cards first became popular in the 1960s. Ministers used to denounce them from the pulpit as the devil's plaything -- and yet people embraced them nonetheless: credit card spending increased every year in the 1960s and 1970s. Back then, of course, they were far more benign then than they are now, with high minimum payments, fairly low credit limits, and interest rates that were kept low by state usury laws. I remember one of the original credit card pioneers explaining to me years ago what he hoped the new BankAmericard might do for the bank's customers. 
 ''The biggest thing a credit card can do is enable families to take advantage of sales -- to buy your skis in the summer and your barbecue grill in the winter,'' he said. It was a simpler world, wasn't it?
 Now it's not so simple. Over the past 15 years especially, credit card issuers have become among the most sophisticated businesses on earth, with proprietary research that tells them almost everything about their customer base. They know how to extract the maximum profit from those customers; they've created all kinds of hidden fees, used teaser rates to draw in new customers. With their low minimum payments and exorbitant interest rates -- those state usury laws were rendered moot nearly three decades ago -- they can even make money in cases where the customer never actually pays off the loan. They can also tell from customer behavior when a borrower is becoming ''higher risk'' -- and they have the contractual right to jack up the interest rates to hedge that risk, even if the customer hasn't missed a payment.
 As Dean Starkman nicely phrased it in the latest issue of The Columbia Journalism Review, the credit card industry ''has shifted from a lending and underwriting paradigm to a sales paradigm; penalties, fees and default interest at rates that were illegal a generation ago are no longer regrettable outcomes to be avoided but central to the business model.'' 
 Elizabeth Warren, a credit card critic who teaches at Harvard Law School, says that credit card contracts have become ''a thicket of tricks and traps.'' There is a powerful sense among consumers that you have to keep an incredibly close eye on your credit card bills because the companies are going to try to sneak one past you if they can. This is not an industry that gives you the warm and fuzzies -- rather, it's one of the more rapacious businesses on the planet. (When I called the American Bankers Association to talk about credit cards, I was told that the people I needed to talk to were all out of pocket.)
 So what has happened with credit card debt? Since the early 1980s, debt has gone from 80 percent to 133 percent of disposable income, according to Kathleen Keest of the Center for Responsible Lending. But the rate of increase in credit card debt actually slowed at the beginning of the century. Why? Because the housing bubble had begun, and with it came a shift from credit card debt to home equity loans. From 2000 to 2006, Americans borrowed a staggering $1.3 trillion from their homes. By comparison, credit card debt rose much more slowly.
 By the end of 2006, however, the housing bubble had ended, and so had the ability of homeowners to use home equity loans. But it was hard to turn off the debt spigot entirely because so many people had become accustomed to living beyond their means.
 Sure enough, it was right about then that credit card debt began climbing. In 2004, for instance, credit card debt grew at a rate of $6.25 billion a quarter. In just the fourth quarter of 2007, it grew by $20 billion. Total credit card debt stands today at about $950 billion. That is still not close to the $11 trillion in mortgages, but it's within spitting distance of auto loans.
 It is that rapid rise in credit card debt that has the bears worried. ''Never in history has the American family skidded into recession with so much debt,'' Ms. Warren said. 
 ''It is unsecured debt,'' said Daniel Alpert of Westwood Capital. ''Eventually people are going to hit the wall.'' 
 It is this prospect, I think, that has caused Congress to suddenly become so interested in credit card practices. In both the Senate and the House, bills have been introduced to eliminate some of the worst of the fee practices, as well as the ability of credit card issuers to, for instance, impose retroactive interest rate charges. At the hearing I watched, most of the legislators who supported the bill had their own stories about getting hit with some fee they hadn't expected.
 In good times, people don't worry so very much about credit card practices. Money seems flush, and if you have to pay a late fee because you forget to pay your bill on time, you write it off to your own laziness. In good times as well, people don't worry about the rising level of debt or whether it is a problem that the country is piling up more debt than it has in disposable income. We shrug it all off and keep spending.
 But in tough times, those fees suddenly feel wrong, and the debt we have piled up suddenly feels onerous. One false move, we think, is all it will take to bring us to the brink of ruin. But here's where the story takes a different turn from the mortgage and subprime industry. Unlike those industries, which got caught unawares when their bubbles burst, the credit card industry is fully aware of what is happening, and is making adjustments -- if you want to call them that -- to control its loan losses. It will indeed raise interest rates on problem borrowers --and quite possible on borrowers who really aren't problems -- and it will hit people with fees for the smallest infractions. It has been through recessions before. It knows how to do this sort of thing. Its profits will drop, but they won't evaporate entirely; Capital One is simply not about to become the next Countrywide. 
 Indeed, even though people who are already in trouble are likely to default, there is a whole other category of credit card users who are likely to become profitable for credit card issuers: those who usually pay off their balances every month, but because of the recession find themselves needing to go into debt. That ability to do so may be costly, and surely will breed resentment, but it will also wind up saving the credit card companies. Heads you lose, tails they win.
 In good times, credit cards symbolize the joys of our consumer culture. In bad times, they symbolize the dangers of that same culture. We're never going to stop feeling conflicted about credit cards. This may be, in the end, why credit cards will never be the shoe that finally drops.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); SECURITIZATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (75%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (73%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); MAIN STREET CAPITAL CORP (52%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); AXP (NYSE) (57%); MAIN (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2008



367 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Australia Mine Operator Gets Bid From China

BYLINE: By TIM JOHNSTON

DATELINE: SYDNEY 

 BODY:
The Sinosteel Corporation, the Chinese metals giant, made a hostile bid Friday for an Australian iron ore producer, underscoring China's ambition to secure raw materials to support its economy. 
 Sinosteel made a bid of 954 million Australian dollars ($897 million) for the ore producer Midwest Corporation, the first hostile takeover attempt by a Chinese company in Australia's mining sector. It is a milestone in China's shift from taking stakes in individual projects to buying corporations that own the projects, analysts said. 
 Midwest responded by asking shareholders to take no action until it had evaluated the offer. 
 Company shares rose 31 percent, to 5.43 Australian dollars, on news of the offer but were still trading below the bid price of 5.60 Australian dollars, which values Midwest at 1.2 billion Australian dollars ($1.1 billion). Sinosteel already owns 19.9 percent of Midwest.
 The move comes as economic growth in China and India has increased demand for commodities in general, driving up prices of an array of resources including iron ore, oil and wheat. 
 China, the world's fastest-growing major economy, has been concerned about a bid by BHP Billiton for Rio Tinto, a combination that would corner a large segment of the iron ore market and potentially drive up prices. 
 The Aluminum Corporation of China bought a sizable stake in Rio Tinto this year, a move that could block BHP's ambitions to create a mining powerhouse. 
 Sinosteel said it had received approval to acquire Midwest from Australia's Foreign Investment Review Board, but there may be some political opposition to a takeover by a company owned by the Chinese state. 
 ''They are a government-owned entity, and if they start buying key assets of another country, you have to be careful,'' Senator Barnaby Joyce, a member of the opposition National Party, said. 
 ''You don't have any transparency,'' Mr. Joyce said, ''and with a Chinese-owned entity, you don't even have the democratic oversight that you get in other countries. Your involvement becomes more of a diplomatic engagement.'' 
 In 2001, the Australian government blocked Royal Dutch Shell from acquiring Woodside Petroleum, citing the national interest. 
 The growing influence of the Chinese market, and the prospects of a slowdown in the United States, have made governments more wary of picking fights with Chinese government-owned companies wanting to play a greater role in their economies. 
 But there are reservations. Last month, the Australian government published its investment guidelines, which include assessing whether ''an investor's operations are independent from the relevant foreign government'' as well as the concerns of national security and the impact on the Australian economy. 
 Midwest's board rejected a similar nonbinding offer last month from Sinosteel. Now Sinosteel is taking its offer directly to shareholders. 
 ''We firmly believe it provides Midwest shareholders with the opportunity to realize certain value in cash for their shares at a significant premium to historical trading levels, in an environment that remains highly challenging for the development of large-scale resource projects,'' Tianwen Huang, president of Sinosteel, said Friday in a statement. 
 ''It's time Midwest shareholders had the opportunity to decide for themselves the value of their investment in Midwest.'' 
 Three years ago, the two companies signed a joint venture to exploit Midwest's two main deposits of ore, the Weld Range hematite project and the Koolanooka magnetite project, both in Western Australia. 
 Midwest was formed four years ago from what remained of Kingstream Resources. The company has been in takeover play for months. 
 Hopes for a merger between Midwest and Murchison Metals failed to materialize after the board of Midwest said that it thought that the company was being undervalued in the proposal. The offer was formally withdrawn last month. 
 The bid Friday represents an 80 percent premium to the average share price in the month before the Murchison bid put the stock in play. 
 The rise in value is partly explained by the spiraling price of iron ore. 
 The world's largest ore producer, Vale, the Brazilian miner formerly known as Companhia Vale do Rio Doce, recently signed a benchmark deal with some of its Asian customers that raised the price of iron ore 65 percent to 71 percent. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Coils of steel wire in Shenyang, China. Economic growth has increased demand, driving up the price of iron ore.(PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINES & MINING (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); IRON MINING (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); POLITICS (69%); APPROVALS (64%); NATIONAL SECURITY (62%)

COMPANY: SINOSTEEL CORP (96%); BHP BILLITON PLC (92%); RIO TINTO GROUP (91%); ALUMINUM CORP OF CHINA LTD (84%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (63%)

TICKER: BLT (LSE) (92%); BIBLT (JSE) (92%); BBL (NYSE) (92%); RIOS (BRU) (91%); RIO (NYSE) (91%); RIO (LSE) (91%); RIO (ASX) (91%); K3HD (SGX) (84%); ACH (NYSE) (84%); 2600 (HKSE) (84%); RDSA (LSE) (63%); RDSA (AMS) (63%); RDS.B (NYSE) (63%); RDS.A (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423520 COAL & OTHER MINERAL & ORE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (96%); SIC5052 COAL & OTHER MINERALS & ORES (96%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (92%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (92%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (92%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (92%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (92%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (91%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (91%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (91%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (84%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (84%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (63%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (58%) NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); LIAONING, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); AUSTRALIA (98%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2008



368 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: Run on Big Wall St. Bank Spurs U.S.-Backed Rescue

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
Just three days ago, the head of Bear Stearns, the beleaguered investment bank, sought to assure Wall Street that his firm was safe.
 But those assurances were blown away in what amounted to a bank run at Bear Stearns, prompting JPMorgan Chase and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to step in on Friday with a financial rescue package intended to keep the firm afloat.
 The move underscores the extreme stresses that the credit crisis has imposed on the financial system and raises the once-unthinkable prospect that major Wall Street firms might fail. 
 The developments may only postpone the eventual sale of all or part of Bear Stearns, which has had crippling losses on mortgage-linked investments. To keep the 85-year-old firm solvent, JPMorgan, backed by the New York Fed, extended a secured line of credit that gives Bear Stearns at least 28 days to shore up its finances or, more likely, to find a buyer. 
 News of the bailout ignited fears that other big banks remain vulnerable to the continuing credit crisis, and stocks tumbled in another rocky day for the markets. Financial shares led the way, with shares of Bear Stearns plunging 47 percent. Hours after the rescue was announced, another Wall Street firm, Lehman Brothers, said it had secured a three-year credit line from banks. Its stock fell 15 percent.
 Policy makers are likely to spend the weekend dealing with the fallout in the financial system, and potential buyers are already circling Bear Stearns.
 As the Wall Street drama unfolded, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, added fresh warnings Friday about a gathering wave of home foreclosures bearing down on American communities.
 President Bush, meantime, made his most striking acknowledgment yet of the country's economic troubles, even as he defended his administration's responses so far and warned against more drastic steps by the government to intervene.
 ''Today's events are fast moving,'' he said, ''but the chairman of the Federal Reserve and the secretary of the Treasury are on top of them and will take the appropriate steps to promote stability in our markets.''
 The rescue effort began late Thursday evening, when Alan D. Schwartz, Bear Stearns's chief executive, placed an urgent call to James Dimon, his counterpart at JPMorgan Chase. Mr. Schwartz said Bear Stearns was struggling to finance its day-to-day operations, according to several people briefed on the negotiations, a situation that would threaten its survival. 
 Because JPMorgan settles transactions for Bear Stearns as its main clearing bank, it was in a good position to assess the collateral that Bear Stearns could provide against a loan. But Mr. Dimon insisted on the support of Timothy F. Geithner, president of the New York Fed. Mr. Geithner quickly agreed to the plan. 
 Assisted by Gary Parr, a top investment banker at Lazard specializing in financial companies, Mr. Schwartz and Mr. Dimon spent the night negotiating the deal, which was not sealed until the early hours of Friday.
 The size and terms of the credit line were not disclosed. JPMorgan will borrow the money from the Fed and lend it to Bear Stearns, and the Fed will ultimately bear the risk of the loan.
 Meetings between Bear Stearns and prospective suitors have already begun. Interested parties include J. C. Flowers & Company, the private equity investor, and Royal Bank of Scotland, according to people who were briefed on the discussions.
 The Fed's intervention highlights the problems regulators face as they contemplate the prospect that investment banks, saddled with toxic securities tied to subprime mortgages, are losing the trust of their lenders and clients -- the kiss of death on Wall Street, where confidence has always been the most precious asset of all.
 Traditionally regulators have helped commercial banks in financial panics, but not investment banks, which do not hold customer deposits. But the 1999 repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act, the Depression-era law that separated investment banks and commercial banks, led to consolidation within the financial industry that has made such distinctions harder to make.
 ''I don't remember a Fed action aimed at a noncommercial bank; this is the kind of thing you see in this post-regulatory environment,'' said Charles Geisst, a Wall Street historian at Manhattan College.
 The developments represent a devastating blow to Bear Stearns, which has carved a niche by mastering the financial arcana of the mortgage market. But after two of its hedge funds that specialized in the subprime mortgage market collapsed last summer, Bear Stearns's area of strength became a millstone.
 In a conference call on Friday, Mr. Schwartz, who succeeded James E. Cayne as chief executive early this year, sounded frustrated as he described the run on Bear Stearns over the previous 24 hours, and raised the possibility that the firm's days as an independent bank were numbered.
 ''This is a bridge to a more permanent solution and it will allow us to look at strategic alternatives that can run the gamut,'' he said. ''Investors will be able to see the facts instead of the fiction. We will look for any alternative that serves our customers as well as maximizes shareholder value.''
 Only days earlier, Mr. Schwartz, a well-connected investment banker who has been at Bear Stearns since the early 1970s, appeared on television to try to calm market fears that the bank was in trouble. Skittish lenders were already calling in loans made to Carlyle Capital, a bond fund sponsored by the Carlyle private equity group, as well as Thornburg Mortgage, a major mortgage firm. Soon the attention spread to Bear Stearns as market players began to question the firm's ability to finance itself, sending its stock into a tailspin.
 By late Thursday, Bear Stearns's top lenders and its hedge fund clients were calling the firm and demanding their cash back, perhaps encouraged by Mr. Schwartz's comments that the firm's capital and liquidity were strong.
 Mr. Schwartz said on Friday that he hoped to find a long-term solution as soon as possible. At its closing price of $30 a share on Friday, Bear Stearns was trading at a gaping discount to its reported book value of $80 a share. Mr. Schwartz said that Bear Stearns, which moved up the reporting of its first-quarter results to this Monday, is still likely to have a result in the range of analyst estimates, suggesting a profit and a slight expansion of its book value, the truest measure of its financial condition.
 Questions persist, however, concerning the real value of its remaining assets.
 While Bear Stearns has valuable businesses like its hedge fund servicing and back office unit, as well as aspects of its real estate operations, they are unlikely to command a high price given the current market. But Mr. Dimon, despite having expressed reservations on buying another investment bank, could bid for all or part of Bear Stearns at a discounted price. Bear Stearns might accept his offer if it cannot solicit a competing bid.
 The troubles at Bear Stearns have come quickly and savagely and hurt some of the putatively smartest money in finance. From Joseph Lewis, the Bermuda-based billionaire who bought $1 billion of Bear Stearns shares last summer, when the stock was trading at $100 and above, to William Miller, the vaunted value investor at Legg Mason, those who have wagered on a turnaround at Bear Stearns are many.
 As the smallest of the major Wall Street banks, Bear Stearns disdained the big bets that its larger competitors made and shied away from trendy markets like Internet stocks in the 1990s. 
 But as its core mortgage business flourished during the housing boom from 2003 to 2006, Bear Stearns, under the guidance of Mr. Cayne, succumbed to the fervor of the time. Bear Stearns's stock price soared and hit a high of $171, making Mr. Cayne, who owns 5 percent of Bear Stearns, a billionaire for a brief moment. 
 The demise of the hedge funds began a slow but persistent loss of market confidence in the bank. Such an erosion can be devastating for any investment bank, especially one like Bear Stearns, which has a leverage ratio of over 30 to 1, meaning it borrows more than 30 times the value of its $11 billion equity base.
 ''The public has never fully understood how leveraged these institutions are,'' said Samuel L. Hayes, a professor of investment banking at Harvard Business School. ''But the market makers understand this inherent risk. This is a run on the bank, just like Long-Term Capital Management, Kidder and Drexel Burnham.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In recent days, Alan D. Schwartz, Bear Stearns's chief, tried to calm market fears about the bank. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CNBC) GRAPH (Source: Bloomberg) (pg. A1) Graph showing the weekly closing stock price of Bear Stearns. GRAPH: HOW BEAR STEARNS UNRAVELED: In less than 15 months, Bear Stearns went from setting a record high on its stock price to seeking a bailout to avert its collapse. (pg. A11) Graph showing Bear Stearns stock price collapsing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (63%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); JAMES DIMON (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2008



369 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: George Speaks, Badly

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
Watching George W. Bush address the New York financial community Friday brought back many memories. Unfortunately, they were about his speech right after Hurricane Katrina, the one when he said: ''America will be a stronger place for it.''
 ''You've helped make our country really in many ways the economic envy of the world,'' he told the Economic Club of New York. 
 You could almost see the thought-bubble forming over the audience: Not this week, kiddo.
 The president squinched his face and bit his lip and seemed too antsy to stand still. As he searched for the name of King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia (''the king, uh, the king of Saudi'') and made guy-fun of one of the questioners (''Who picked Gigot?''), you had to wonder what the international financial community makes of a country whose president could show up to talk economics in the middle of a liquidity crisis and kind of flop around the stage as if he was emcee at the Iowa Republican Pig Roast. 
 We're really past expecting anything much, but in times of crisis you would like to at least believe your leader has the capacity to pretend he's in control. Suddenly, I recalled a day long ago when my husband worked for a struggling paper full of worried employees and the publisher walked into the newsroom wearing a gorilla suit. 
 The country that elected George Bush -- sort of -- because he seemed like he'd be more fun to have a beer with than Al Gore or John Kerry is really getting its comeuppance. Our credit markets are foundering, and all we've got is a guy who looks like he's ready to kick back and start the weekend.
 This is not the first time Bush's attempts to calm our fears redoubled our nightmares. His first speech after 9/11 -- that two-minute job on the Air Force base -- was so stilted that the entire country felt like heading for the nearest fallout shelter. After Katrina, of course, it took forever to pry him out of Crawford, and then he more or less read a laundry list of Goods Being Shipped to the Flood Zone and delivered some brief assurances that things would work out.
 O.K., so he's not good at first-day response. Or second. Third can be a problem, too. But this economic crisis has been going on for months, and all the president could come up with sounded as if it had been composed for a Rotary Club and then delivered by a guy who had never read it before. ''One thing is certain that Congress will do is waste some of your money,'' he said. ''So I've challenged members of Congress to cut the number of cost of earmarks in half.''
 Besides being incoherent, this is a perfect sign of an utterly phony speech. Earmarks are one of those easy-to-attack Congressional weaknesses, and in a perfect world, they would not exist. But they cost approximately two cents in the grand budgetary scheme of things. Saying you're going to fix the economy or balance the budget by cutting out earmarks is like saying you're going to end global warming by banning bathroom nightlights.
 Bush pointed out -- as if the entire economic world didn't already know -- that Congress has already passed an economic incentive package that will send tax rebate checks to more than 130 million households. ''A lot of them are a little skeptical about this 'checks in the mail' stuff,'' he jibed. Jokejoke. Winkwink. 
 Then, after a run through of ''ideas I strongly reject,'' Bush finally got around to announcing that he was going to ''talk about what we're for. We're obviously for sending out over $150 billion into the marketplace in the form of checks that will be reaching the mailboxes by the second week of May.
 ''We're for that,'' he added.
 Once the markets had that really, really clear, Bush felt free to go on to the other things he was for, which very much resembled that laundry list for Katrina (''400 trucks containing 5.4 million Meals Ready to Eat -- or M.R.E.'s ... 3.4 million pounds of ice ...'') This time the rundown included a six-month-old F.H.A. refinancing program, and an industry group called Hope Now that offers advice to people with mortgage problems.
 And then, finally, the nub of the housing crisis: ''Problem we have is, a lot of folks aren't responding to over a million letters sent out to offer them assistance and mortgage counseling,'' the president of the United States told the world. 
 But wait -- more positive news! The secretary of Housing and Urban Development is proposing that lenders supply an easy-to-read summary with mortgage agreements. ''You know, these mortgages can be pretty frightening to people. I mean, there's a lot of tiny print,'' the president said.
 Really, if he can't fix the economy, the least he could do is rehearse the speech. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); HURRICANES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); FLOOD ZONES (73%); ARMED FORCES (50%); AIR FORCES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (68%); AL GORE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2008



370 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: President Acknowledges Strains on the Economy

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS and PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
President Bush on Friday acknowledged more starkly than ever that the economy has slipped into trouble, dogged by falling home prices and turmoil in financial markets, but he inveighed against government bailouts aimed at limiting the pain. 
 ''Our economy obviously is going through a tough time,'' the president told the Economic Club of New York in a morning speech at a Midtown Manhattan hotel. ''The temptation of Washington is to say that anything short of a massive government intervention in the housing market amounts to inaction. I strongly disagree with that sentiment.
 ''I believe there ought to be action,'' Mr. Bush added, ''but I'm deeply concerned about law and regulation that will make it harder for the markets to recover.'' 
 Shortly after Mr. Bush spoke, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, issued fresh warnings about the gathering wave of home foreclosures while pledging new regulations to limit the impact and crack down on predatory mortgage lending. 
 ''Foreclosure rates have increased substantially,'' Mr. Bernanke said during a speech in Washington before a meeting of the National Community Reinvestment Coalition. 
 ''Behind these disturbing statistics are families facing personal and financial hardship and neighborhoods that may be destabilized by clusters of foreclosures,'' Mr. Bernanke said. ''These realities challenge us to find ways to prevent preventable foreclosures'' and ''ensure a regulatory environment that promotes responsible lending.''
 Taken together, the two speeches underscored the degree to which Washington has moved beyond debating whether or not the economy is entering a period of duress to focusing on how to soften the consequences. 
 Mr. Bernanke's words were perhaps most notable for what he left unsaid, perhaps because of the sheer volatility of the present financial situation and the fear that almost anything specific he might say in advance of the Fed's expected interest rate cut on Tuesday could do more harm than good. 
 The severity of the crisis was brought home with stunning clarity by the early morning announcement that Bear Stearns, the venerable Wall Street investment bank, was leaning on emergency financing from JPMorgan Chase and the New York Federal Reserve.
 ''I had a busy morning,'' was all Mr. Bernanke said, prompting a flurry of laughter before going into his prepared text. 
 Indeed, analysts said that Mr. Bernanke was reluctant to tread further onto volatile ground because so many threats appear to be lurking in the global financial system that any poor choice of words could sow panic in some new quarter.
 ''When you're fighting shadows, the less said the better,'' said Robert Barbera, chief economist of the trading and research firm ITG. 
 Even before the distress call from Bear Stearns, markets assumed the Fed would drop its benchmark lending rate, currently at 3 percent, by at least half a point. With the Bear Stearns worries popping to the surface, investors now expect the Fed to cut by three-fourths of a percentage point. 
 In aggressively lowering short-term interest rates, the Fed has been seeking to stimulate economic activity: Lower rates make it easier for banks to get cash, which traditionally makes them more likely to lend, giving businesses the wherewithal to invest and hire workers.
 But investors in long-term markets and other securities, more worried about inflation and fearful of taking unnecessary risks, have been pushing those rates higher, undercutting the Fed's effort to keep the economy from falling into a deeper hole. 
 The Fed has acknowledged concerns that its easing could worsen inflation but has concluded that the immediate threats to the economy demand freer credit now. Data released Friday by the Labor Department appeared to give the Fed extra latitude: the Consumer Price Index showed inflation was essentially flat in February. That lent credence to the case that as the economy slows, this will diminish demand for goods, damping price increases.
 But many analysts argue that the February figure was an aberration. Gasoline and food prices have been rising sharply, which could well be reflected in the data for March, removing whatever cushion Friday's numbers appeared to provide.
 None of this occupied Mr. Bernanke's time at the podium. Instead, the Fed chairman focused on the widening crisis in real estate, while advertising the merits of a set of proposed rules he introduced in December. They include barring lenders from making loans that borrowers cannot repay and demanding that lenders verify the incomes of borrowers. 
 In his speech, President Bush cast the slowdown -- he did not indulge the word ''recession'' -- as a natural product of the laissez- faire economic policies that he cited as a core national strength.
 ''In a free market, there's going to be good times and bad times,'' Mr. Bush said. ''In the long run, I'm confident that our economy will continue to grow, because the foundation is solid.''
 Some economists, however, noted that the labor market appeared to be breaking down, with the number of jobs shrinking the last two months and the income of the typical American household being eroded by inflation.
 ''The fundamentals appear to be dangerously imperiled,'' said Jared Bernstein, senior economist at the labor-oriented Economic Policy Institute. ''The current economic trajectory is likely to do significant damage to the average family's living standards.'' 
 Only last month, the president said he was unaware of the possibility that gasoline prices could reach $4 a gallon. On Friday, he validated consumer fears. 
 ''Prices are up at the gas pump and in the supermarket,'' he said. ''Housing values are down. Hard-working Americans are concerned. They're concerned about their families, and they're concerned about making their bills.''
 But the fix is already on the way, Mr. Bush said, pointing to tax rebates scheduled to be mailed to roughly 130 million households over the next few months.
 ''The challenge is not to do anything foolish,'' Mr. Bush said, flatly rejecting proposals on Capitol Hill for the government to buy up abandoned and foreclosed homes to stop prices from plunging.
 At the same time, he warned against impeding flows of foreign investment reaching the United States, including those held by sovereign wealth funds -- vast pools of state-controlled investment that have accumulated in China, Russia and among Persian Gulf oil exporters. 
 ''It makes no sense to deny capital, including sovereign wealth funds, from access to the U.S. markets,'' Mr. Bush said. ''It's our money to begin with. It seems like we ought to let it back.''
 Democrats fired back that continuing to lean on the market as opposed to a more interventionist approach would leave the nation more vulnerable to the ravages of recession.
 ''It seems like the president is on a different economic planet than most Americans,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. ''This president is beginning to resemble Herbert Hoover in his hands-off approach.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben S. Bernanke said Friday in Washington that much of the lending in recent years was ''neither responsible nor prudent.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROL T. POWERS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHARTS: Consumer Prices: Percent change, month to month, seasonally adjusted. Chart shows bar graph for 2007-2008 statistics.
 U.S. and major metropolitan areas (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) Chart details various states and statistics. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (74%); PREDATORY LENDING (68%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BEN BERNANKE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2008



371 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Expedia's Path to Expansion Passes Through India

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
Earlier this month, Expedia, the online travel company, entered the Indian market with Expedia.co.in, the 17th Expedia Web site worldwide. Expedia also owns Hotels.com and TripAdvisor, which operate both in the United States and overseas, as well as Hotwire, which operates only in the United States. In addition, it owns a controlling interest in eLong, a Chinese online travel company.
 Expedia's expansion into India is part of an aggressive international growth strategy mapped out by its chief executive, Dara Khosrowshahi. He is an Iranian-born and Ivy League-educated protege of Barry Diller, the head of IAC/InterActiveCorp. He has led Expedia since 2004, both before and after it was spun off from IAC. 
 He talked recently about Expedia's push overseas and the challenges the company faces from the slowing economy in the United States. Here are excerpts from the conversation:
 Q.Why is Expedia going into India now?
 A. India is an enormously attractive marketplace for us. It's over 1.1 billion people, nearly 17 percent of the world's population. It's an economy that has been enjoying pretty explosive growth over the last 5 to 10 years. As the economy grows, you're going to have a giant middle class that's going to want to travel not only inside of India, but is really going to want to explore the broader Asia-Pacific areas, and is going to eventually travel worldwide. We want to be there to serve them.
 Q. How big is your international operation today?
 A. We operate in 37 countries and in 20 different languages. In 2007, 32 percent of our revenues were from overseas; in 2006, 28 percent were.
 Q. Where are your other new growth opportunities outside the United States?
 A. Korea, Vietnam, etc., are particular markets we're looking at. We're treading a little more cautiously in Latin America. Our ability to conduct business with local consumers is restricted in Latin America. Credit card penetration is relatively low; debit card penetration seems to be accelerating there. 
 Q. What percentage of your sales this year will be generated outside the United States?
 A. I don't have a number for '08, but the goal for the company is in the next five to seven years to get that number to 50 percent.
 Q. What impact is the economic downturn having on your business in the United States?
 A. Industry data we've seen suggests that U.S. hotel occupancies are down on a year-on-year basis, for both leisure and business travel, in the past two months. The leisure markets seem to be weaker than the business travel markets. So, for example, we are seeing relative weakness in Las Vegas versus New York, which is a very strong market. That's a combination of leisure and business activity as well as the dollar -- we see a huge influx of demand of European travelers coming into New York. 
 The air carriers have been really disciplined about keeping capacity growth limited, and, as a result, the air yields are very good. Because Easter is earlier this year than it was last year, really the tale for '08 is going to be, how do air bookings come in after the Easter period.
 One interesting kind of behavior we're seeing is that consumers, mostly U.S. consumers, are definitely looking for deals more. The percentage of consumers who are buying hotel room inventory that's on sale or only available on Expedia is increasing on a market-by-market basis. For example, in January '07, 10 percent of hotel rooms we sold in Miami were sold on a promotional basis. This January, it was 17 percent. We see increases in New York; San Francisco; Washington, D.C. So it's fairly broad.
 Q. What are the pros and cons of the weakness of the dollar to your business?
 A. The first pro is that the weakness of the dollar typically means that foreign currencies are getting stronger, and our international businesses are some of our strongest growing businesses. As those international currencies get even stronger, there's kind of a turbo-boost to the growth that we see in our international bookings. As the dollar gets weaker and as the U.S. becomes a more attractive destination for international consumers, we think we have a great product for those international consumers. 
 The con is that U.S. travel abroad generally becomes a bit weaker, because international destinations do become more expensive for the U.S. consumer, and we have seen our growth in international destinations slow down versus what it was two to three years ago.
 Q. Forrester Research last fall reported a 9 percent decline, from 2005, in the number of American travelers researching and buying leisure trips online, the first time it had seen this phenomenon. Do you see this trend?
 A. Our U.S. business is in good shape and is looking to grow, a combination of more people and more people spending more with us.
 Q. What other challenges does Expedia face now?
 A. To be a global company but to be locally relevant as well. To apply one formula and to expect that one formula to work on a global basis, we don't think is realistic. And it's a real challenge to operate at the scale that we're operating, but be as fast, as entrepreneurial as you need to be in a China or an India.
 The overall travel marketplace is an $800 billion worldwide marketplace, and we have a ton of competition domestically and in every single local market we get into.
 Our growth rates have accelerated going into '08, and we're going into a pretty uncertain time. How you manage a growth business in an uncertain climate is a pretty difficult balancing act. You want to invest, you want to expand, but you also want to be prudent.
 Q. So what's the best way to operate in an uncertain time?
 A. It's to have your pulse on the market every single day; be very, very flexible; and especially not to overextend your capital. We throw off a lot of cash flow, and we're being pretty conservative as far as our balance sheet and how we use it. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dara Khosrowshahi(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL MCCARTEN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (92%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); POPULATION SIZE (72%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (69%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (60%); EXECUTIVES (56%)

COMPANY: EXPEDIA INC (98%); IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (84%); HOTELS.COM LP (58%); HOTWIRE INC (58%)

TICKER: EXPE (NASDAQ) (98%); IACI (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (98%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (98%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (84%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (58%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: DARA KHOSROWSHAHI (73%); BARRY DILLER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2008



372 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: Investigators Talk to Man In Ricin Case

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
He remains in critical condition, but a man who may be able to unlock the mystery of how a large quantity of highly toxic ricin came to be in his motel room has regained consciousness. 
 The man, Roger Bergendorff, 57, has been hospitalized and unable to speak since Feb. 14, when he summoned an ambulance. 
 But Special Agent David Staretz, an F.B.I. spokesman here, said Friday that investigators had met with Mr. Bergendorff. They hope he can provide information about the Feb. 28 discovery of the ricin and castor beans, from which it is derived.
 Mr. Staretz and Las Vegas police officials declined to provide more information.
 Officials have said they found no contamination from the exotic toxin, which can be lethal in extremely small amounts. Ricin has no antidote and is legal only for cancer research.
 In court documents made public last week, the police described the amount of ricin found in several vials as ''a large quantity'' and characterized it as a biological weapon. Still, they have repeatedly played down the threat.
 ''It is our understanding that there is no established link to any terrorist organization or terrorism,'' said Rick Eaton, the state homeland security director.
 Friends and family members described Mr. Bergendorff as an unemployed and unmarried graphic artist, a recovering alcoholic who loved his dog and cats and struggled to pay his bills while moving around California, Nevada and Utah. He had lived in recent months at an extended-stay motel in Las Vegas.
 Family members insisted that he was not suicidal.
 The police say a cousin, Thomas Tholen, of Riverton, Utah, was collecting Mr. Bergendorff's belongings from his motel room on Feb. 28 when he gave a motel manager a plastic bag with what turned out to be ricin powder.
 Court documents show that firearms and four ''anarchists' cookbooks'' marked at sections describing how to manufacture ricin were also found in Mr. Bergendorff's motel room at the Extended Stay America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); POLICE FORCES (75%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (72%); HOTEL STAFF (72%); TERRORISM (71%); CATS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (66%); CANCER (54%)

COMPANY: EXTENDED STAY AMERICA INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (52%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%) NEVADA, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



373 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1593 words

HEADLINE: Leaving Behind The Trucker Hat

BYLINE: By ALLEN SALKIN

DATELINE: Tivoli, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 THEIR Carhartts are no longer ironic. Now they have real dirt on them. 
 Until three years ago, Benjamin Shute was living in Williamsburg, where he kept Brooklyn Lager in his refrigerator and played darts in a league. 
 Raised on the Upper East Side by a father who is a foundation executive and a mother who writes about criminal justice, Mr. Shute graduated from Amherst and worked for an antihunger charity. But something nagged at him. To learn about food production, he had volunteered at a farm in Massachusetts. He liked the dirt, the work and the coaxing of land long fallow into producing eggplant and garlic. 
 He tried growing strawberries on his roof in Brooklyn, but it didn't scratch his growing itch. 
 And so last week, Mr. Shute could be found here, elbow-deep in wet compost two hours north of New York City, filling greenhouse trays for onion seeds. Along with a partner, Miriam Latzer, he runs Hearty Roots, a 25-acre organic farm. 
 ''I never thought I wanted to farm,'' Mr. Shute said. ''But it feels like an honest living.'' 
 His partner, Ms. Latzer (the two are not a couple) is 33 and a former urban planner. Her parents, a professor and a librarian, ''think its crazy that I'm a farmer,'' she said. ''They wonder what planet I came from.''
 This one. Steeped in years of talk around college campuses and in stylish urban enclaves about the evils of factory farms (see the E. coli spinach outbreaks), the perils of relying on petroleum to deliver food over long distances (see global warming) and the beauty of greenmarkets (see the four-times-weekly locavore cornucopia in Union Square), some young urbanites are starting to put their muscles where their pro-environment, antiglobalization mouths are. They are creating small-scale farms near urban areas hungry for quality produce and willing to pay a premium.
 ''Young farmers are an emerging social movement,'' said Severine von Tscharner Fleming, 26, who is making a documentary called ''The Greenhorns'' about the trend.
 While this is hardly the first time that idealistic young people wanted to get back to the garden, the current crop have advantages over their forebears from the 1960s and 70s, many of whom, inspired by the Whole Earth Catalog or Wendell Berry's books about agrarian values, headed to the country, only to find it impossible to make a living.
 But the growing market for organic and locally grown produce is making it possible for well-run small farms to thrive, said Ken Meter, 58, who studies the economics of food as an analyst at the Crossroads Resource Center, a nonprofit advocacy group for local food initiatives that is based in Minnesota.
 ''A lot of people in our 20s went to the land and wanted to farm and had a lot of enthusiasm, but not many resources,'' he said. ''It has only been the last five years where the payment from working your fingers to the bone and supplying urban markets with high-quality produce has been enough where you could imagine making a living.''
 Whether young, first-generation farmers constitute a flood or trickle is difficult to say. But many long-time observers of small farms say they have noticed an increase in recent years among college graduates who want to farm, even if they intern at established farms or rent tiny parcels.
 ''We've had a big spike in the last decade and especially in the last few years of people who are new to farming applying to sell at Greenmarket,'' said Gabrielle Langholtz, manager of special projects for the Manhattan-based Greenmarket, which runs 46 farmers' markets around the city. ''Maybe they went to liberal arts schools and read Michael Pollan,'' she said, referring to the author of ''The Omnivore's Dilemma: A Natural History of Four Meals,'' (Penguin Press HC, 2006), ''and shopped at farmers markets and said, 'I'm going to buy a farm upstate and sell to Greenmarket.' '' The typical size of farms that sell at Greenmarket is 50 to 100 acres, she said.
 Nationally, there were 8,493 certified organic farms in 2005, using just over 4 million acres of land, more than double the acreage in 2000, according to the United States Department of Agriculture. (The federal government introduced a uniform standard for organic certification in 2002.) New York had more than twice as many certified organic farms, 735, in 2007 as it did in 2004, according to the state Department of Agriculture and Markets. The agency estimates there are three to five times that many organic farms in New York which, like Hearty Roots, choose not to spend the $500 to $1,000 it costs to become certified. 
 Put that together with research indicating organic farmers are on average 46 years old, compared with an average of 52 for all farmers, and the numbers seem to reflect what experts say they see in the field: the demand from consumers for food produced on a small scale, bought directly from farmers, has allowed a younger generation to enter farming, even as global markets drive many conventional farmers off the land.
 ''It has opened up a better opportunity than we've had in a while for entry-level farmers,'' said Stephen R. Gliessman, a professor of environmental studies at the University of California, Santa Cruz, who studies sustainable agriculture. He said many of his students in recent years have started farms after graduation.
 When Mr. Shute led a seminar called, ''So you want to be a farmer?'' in December in New York, it was standing room only with over 40 people, he said. 
 Just a few years ago the prevailing style statement in Williamsburg featured metrosexually groomed urbanites wearing trucker hats and pristine Carhartt jackets and quaffing Pabst beer. Now some are choosing the real life behind the pose. 
 At a recent fund-raising party for Ms. Fleming's film, in a warehouse next to the Williamsburg Bridge, men in shaggy beards and women in thick sandals sipped Sixpoint Lager from mason jars and snacked on Crane Mountain chevre.
 Guests included Rachel Mark and Betsy Devine, who own Salvatore Brooklyn, a cheese maker in Boerum Hill, and Rick and Michael Mast, tall brothers with Amish-length beards, who are starting a chocolate factory in Williamsburg.
 The Billyburg scene has changed, said Annaliese Griffin, who contributes to a blog called Grocery Guy. ''Having a cool cheese in your fridge has taken the place of knowing what the cool band is, or even of playing in that band,'' she said. ''Our rock stars are ricotta makers.''
 When John Bliss and Stacy Brenner, both 34, first moved to Maine to farm seven years ago -- Mr. Bliss from Tucson, and Ms. Brenner from Philadelphia -- they knew little about farming. 
 ''My lesson learned from that first year was that if the soil is good, it won't let you down,'' Mr. Bliss said.
 On their Broadturn Farm, in Scarborough, they plan to raise sheep, chickens, pigs and turkeys along with vegetables this year. Like many new organic farms, Broadturn uses the Community Supported Agriculture model to survive. Such businesses sell food subscriptions that entitle consumers to weekly boxes of produce in season. Broadturn's 20-week subscription costs $500. 
 Mr. Bliss and Ms. Brenner moved to their current site last year after winning a bid to rent a parcel on the outskirts of Portland controlled by a land trust seeking to preserve open space. 
 A similar set-up is what allowed Ian Calder-Piedmonte, a philosophy major from Cornell University, to join three years ago with a former classmate who had started Balsam Farms on 60 acres on the South Fork of Long Island. For about $150 an acre, they lease town land across from East Hampton high school, andthe Peconic Land Trust leases them acreage in Amagansett, where they operate a farm stand on Town Lane.
 ''If we can find affordable housing, which is a challenge in East Hampton,'' said Mr. Piedmont, 28, who spent two years in Italy after graduation, ''we're going to have two interns this summer.''
 Although publications like Small Farmer's Journal, published since 1976, often present the life of the small farmer in a heartwarmingly ''Little House on the Prairie'' light, a recent article in Sheep! about the dangers of jackals and one in Backyard Poultry about preventing chickens' drinking water from freezing, are a reminder of the old-school risks of farming.
 ''We lost all of our soybeans last year to Japanese beetles,'' Ms. Latzer said. She often wakes up at 5 a.m. and collapses into an exhausted sleep by 9 p.m. She earns enough to afford health insurance, but if the landlord doesn't renew their five-year lease, the enterprise could become untenable. 
 A number of colleges have added organic farming classes because of demand from students. ''A lot of them come out and realize they're not cut out for it,'' said John Biernbaum, a professor of horticulture in Michigan State's new one-year certificate program. Last year, the first, there were 9 students. This year, 18. 
 Some feel the strong tug of the land. On March 1, KayCee Wimbish, 32, a former second-grade teacher, moved from her Harlem apartment up to Tivoli to raise sheep and chickens with Owen O'Connor, 22, a Wesleyan dropout who helped come up with the name of their enterprise, Awesome Farm.
 Ms. Wimbish grew up in Tulsa, Okla., a child of the suburbs, and it wasn't until she moved to New York that she discovered farmers' markets and the politics of food. She worked the last two summers at Hearty Roots and became hooked on the agrarian life. ''Moving to New York City,'' she said, ''was what first got me interested in food and farming.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CITY SLICKERS?: KayCee Wimbish, 32, a former teacher, moved to Tivoli, N.Y., to raise sheep and chickens with Owen O'Connor, 22.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RAMIREZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. ST.1)
 GOING ORGANIC: Miriam Latzer and Danny Percich, a farmhand, at Hearty Roots farm.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS RAMIREZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. ST2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (76%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); FOOD CHARITIES (76%); ORGANIC FOODS (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); CITIES (73%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (68%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); E COLI (64%); FACTORY FARMS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



374 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; T: Design Magazine; BIBLIO FILE; Pg. 84

LENGTH: 1494 words

HEADLINE: Raze High the Roof Beams, Comrade

BYLINE: By Holly Brubach

 BODY:
Now it's China's turn. The signs of progress that have marred Europe and America for the past century have lately been unleashed in the world's fastest growing economy, and the eyewitnesses are lining up to testify. Not surprisingly, money is talking loud enough to drown out any dissent, as the fate of an ancient society increasingly rests in the hands of real estate developers. If ever there were an exercise in urban planning, this is it: how to modernize a civilization without obliterating its heritage; how to accommodate density without compromising quality of life; how to learn from the mistakes of the so-called developed countries, now congested and polluted, their major cities homogenized and colonized by the same handful of global brands. 
 In ''The Last Days of Old Beijing: Life in the Vanishing Backstreets of a City Transformed'' (Walker and Company), Michael Meyer documents the city as it vanishes before his -- and our -- eyes. A former Peace Corps volunteer from Minnesota, now a writer and teacher of English, Meyer has made his home for the past two years in the hutong, the ''lanes that lattice the heart of Beijing.'' As the municipal government prepares to host the world (slogan: ''New Beijing, Great Olympics''), the hutong are being razed to make way for Range Rover showrooms, Starbucks, Pizza Hut, Hooters. The Old and Dilapidated Housing Renewal program authorized the sale of land rights for entire neighborhoods filled with one-story courtyard houses, and the preservation movement has been powerless. Meyer meets with Hua Xinmin, the daughter of a prominent local architect whose ''activism'' seems to consist of cataloging the destruction: ''As I flipped through a photo album that documented scores of courtyards pulled down over the years, Hua identified each in the voice one uses when speaking of the deceased.'' 
 The authorities repeatedly invoke Baron Haussmann, the French urban planner who in the 19th century transformed Paris from a rabbit warren of cobbled streets into a grand scheme of broad avenues and promenades with long perspectives culminating in monuments. Eminent domain dictates the eviction of tenants and owners alike, with residents relocated to high-rise apartments far from the center, built by the same developers who are replacing their homes with shopping malls. Notices are posted in the hutong, listing the numbers of houses scheduled for demolition. Meyer watches as one old resident sidles up ''to the group of men scouring the list like students checking exam results.'' 
 The one-story courtyard houses, run-down mansions accessed via narrow streets crammed with pedestrians and bicycles, have been subdivided so many times that most residents' personal space has been whittled down to a single room, or less. Despite the authorities' warnings that the old housing is unsafe, despite reassurances of a better life with modern conveniences like indoor plumbing and private bathrooms, most residents don't want to go. According to Meyer's elderly neighbor, whom he identifies only as ''the Widow,'' living in a courtyard home is healthier because it keeps one's feet on the ground. ''The concept,'' he explains, ''is called jie diqi in Chinese, 'to be connected to the earth's energy.' '' She ''once demonstrated by gently tapping her foot on our gate's granite step, wooden threshold and surrounding muddy lane. At every touch, she repeated connected.''
 It was the Widow who welcomed Meyer when he moved in, informing him of the courtyard's only rule: ''Public is public; private is private!'' Actually, even private seems to be public -- at least, to my incurably Western mind. The men's latrine is communal. People wander in and out of Meyer's apartment all day long. The Widow, dispensing homemade dumplings and advice, enters without knocking. We meet Recycler Wang, who forages for a living; Mr. Han, who repairs cellphones; Soldier Liu, noodle maker; and Meyer's students at Coal Lane Elementary school.
 Their intimate proximity is about to be destroyed; the architecture alone cannot account for the loss. ''Bamboo Slanted Street is an 800-yard-long timeline of Beijing's last century,'' Meyer says. ''Every morning, I pass red wooden gates, two-story Beaux-Arts masonry, Soviet-inspired concrete storefronts, and patchy red brick lean-tos. Separately, none of the fragile buildings are masterpieces. Together, they form the backdrop of a vanishing lifestyle.'' The hutong are sprawling and vernacular, beneath the notice of an organization like the World Monuments Fund, which has come to the rescue of the Palace Museum of the Forbidden City and a number of other sites in China. Less than one-eighth of Beijing's old neighborhoods remain, Meyer tells us, and this book is not so much an attempt to save what's left as it is an inquiry into conflicting emotions in the face of wholesale change. 
 Meyer is a graceful writer in full command of his voice, with a scrupulous eye for detail and a flawless sense of comic timing. Much as he loves the China that he found when he arrived in 1995, he is not sentimental: ''No one should have to live in poverty, no matter how picturesque.'' 
 There is a plainspoken eloquence to his account and a winning determination to subject himself to the same scrutiny he brings to bear on his neighbors and sources. Awaiting the inevitable destruction of the hutong where he lives, he becomes acutely aware of the contradictory impulses at work in his own mind, confessing to wandering the aisles at Wal-Mart, where ''[t]he air-conditioning was frigid, and the deli served cold noodles and icy beer.'' In the end, there is no escaping his status as an outsider, his view of his surroundings through a foreign lens: ''As a Peace Corps volunteer, I constantly heard incredulous Chinese ask what sort of nation sent its citizens overseas, away from their family, to work with strangers. In Beijing, locals I met outside the hutong could not fathom why anyone would want to live there.'' An emissary from a nation that routinely junks its own past and starts anew, Meyer finds himself a champion of an unpopular cause. 
 Justin Guariglia's ''Planet Shanghai'' (Chronicle Books) echoes many of the themes that bother Meyer, with parallel developments in another metropolis. ''The longtang of Shanghai,'' he writes of the city's lane neighborhoods comprised of attached two- and three-story houses, ''considered by many Chinese as 'backward,' are quickly disappearing, thanks in part to land development and the desire to flatten blocks of centuries-old neighborhood housing to build modern office and residential towers -- monuments to the 'progress' and 'forward thinking' of the new republic.'' 
 In a series of photo essays, Guariglia provides extensive evidence of Shanghai's attempts to graft the exotic and new onto the indigenous and traditional. The results are fascinating, often perplexing. In a chapter called ''Style,'' we get glimpses of two mismatched knee socks cut off at the instep (Prada's inspiration last season?), worn with thong sandals, of full-face plastic visors that look like lampshades, of punk-colored hair and black fishnets -- all juxtaposed with the pajamas that the locals seem to have adopted as a civilian uniform. (Until this book, I thought that only writers lived in their pajamas.) 
 The pile of bicycle tires and a wooden folding chair in the section called ''Still Life'' would have appealed to Recycler Wang. A lace tablecloth is draped over a motorcycle. In ''Daily Life,'' a scene of checkout lines at a store imparts a mind-boggling sense of scale -- a sea of heads and a maze of shopping carts so vast that it makes Costco look like a boutique operation. 
 In his foreword, John Krich calls Guariglia's photographs ''an act of visual preservation, a catalog of close kinship-like living, with no sordid detail or curious impulse spared, at once touchingly intimate and strangely open, bred by conditions soon to be reduced to rubble.'' Indeed, there is something precarious about the moment these images describe. ''Over the course of my travels,'' Guariglia observes, ''I began to realize that authentic slices of culture that have withstood change over centuries, and may still provide a portal into ancient traditions, are truly becoming a global anomaly. They still exist in some areas, but they are unfortunately dwindling rapidly, amid the worldwide assimilation of cultures and societies.'' 
 We look at the Chinese poised on the brink of newfound prosperity and want to spare them the mistakes that our own society made at that same stage. We want to persuade them to hold on to what they've got. At a conference on the luxury-goods industry a few years ago, I listened as a trend forecaster predicted that ''authenticity'' would be the next big thing. In a world in which values are now reduced to trends, the appeal of authenticity is apparently limited for those who have known nothing else. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY COOLIFE
 PROP STYLIST: MEGAN CAPONETTO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EYEWITNESSES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); EMINENT DOMAIN (71%); EVICTION (71%); RELOCATIONS (71%); WRITERS (67%); RETAILERS (64%); VOLUNTEERS (52%)

COMPANY: WALKER & CO (WINTER PARK, FLORIDA) (69%); PIZZA HUT INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (69%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (69%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



375 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: Das Loot

BYLINE: By ANNE-MARIE SLAUGHTER

 BODY:
IN April 2003, just after American troops secured Baghdad, Iraqis looted the Iraqi national museum. American soldiers nearby made no effort to stop them, much less provide a guard. We either did not have enough soldiers to protect the museum, or we did not care enough to try. 
 This failure was simply a ''matter of priorities,'' according to Gen. Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld thought it was a ''stretch'' to attribute the theft and destruction of priceless Mesopotamian artifacts to ''any defect in the war plan.'' 
 Our government knew how to destroy but not how to build. We had toppled a regime, and in coming months we would dismantle Saddam Hussein's bureaucracy and disband his army. But we did so with absolutely no understanding of how to build a liberal democracy, or even a stable, rights-regarding government with broad popular support. 
 Such a government requires a prosperous economy, a secure society and sufficient cultural unity to allow everyday interaction among different ethnic groups in workplaces, schools, hospitals, the army and the police. Protecting the symbols of a common and proud heritage is Democracy Building 101 -- at least for anyone who understood anything about Iraqi history and culture. 
 Americans are still living with the aftermath of this ignorance, and we will be for decades to come. In 2003 and 2004, experts debated whether it would take one year or three to rebuild Iraq. Now we debate whether it will take 10 to 15 years or whether it can be done at all. 
 Those broken and stolen statues from the museum are the enduring symbols of what has gone so wrong. They were easy to smash, so hard to repair.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); HISTORY (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ART THEFT (70%); LIBERALISM (69%); ETHNIC GROUPS (67%); ETHNICITY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



376 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Look Deeper. You'll See A Bright Side.

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
DESPITE assurances from the Federal Reserve that it stands ready to help struggling investment banks mired in illiquid mortgage-backed securities, the mood on Wall Street continued to deteriorate last week.
 In fact, ''the speed and momentum of the negative sentiment is really picking up,'' said Mike Thompson, the managing director of global research at Thomson Financial. That's in part because of yet more problems springing up in the financial sector. Last week, for instance, Bear Stearns, the investment bank, required an emergency injection of liquidity from the Federal Reserve and JPMorgan Chase.
 But beyond that, investors have lost faith in what appeared to be an economic firewall: the job market. When the Labor Department recently reported that the economy shed jobs in February, the second consecutive month of declines, many on Wall Street took it as a sign that a recession was under way. In a report last week, Merrill Lynch economists said the Fed had entered ''panic prevention mode.'' The firm's economists think that the Fed will lower short-term interest rates by three-quarters of a point on Tuesday, in yet another effort to stave off recession. 
 But even if the economy is struggling, it's not clear that long-term investors should dwell entirely on the negatives.
 ''The numbers are certainly getting more compelling on the recession case,'' said James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis. But he added that he was still not convinced that a recession is a done deal. And even if the economy is headed there, he said he doesn't believe investors need to panic.
 That's because there are hopeful indicators if you drill down into some underlying economic themes: 
 THE MELTDOWN IS LARGELY CONTAINED To be sure, earnings for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index are expected to tumble in coming quarters, thanks largely to steep losses among financial firms. According to Thomson Financial, analysts are bracing for a 25 percent decline in corporate profits in the fourth quarter of 2007 and an 8 percent decline in the first quarter this year. 
 Still, for a vast majority of sectors of the stock market, corporate profits are expected to climb. 
 In fact, if you exclude the financial sector, profits for the rest of the S.& P. 500 companies are expected to have grown nearly 12 percent in the fourth quarter of 2007 and to grow nearly 9 percent in the first quarter this year. In other words, this market isn't like 2001 (at least not yet), when troubles in technology stocks took down earnings for virtually every other market sector.
 BAD NEWS MAY BE GOOD NEWS While a struggling job market is never welcome for American households, it's often a sign of better news to come for equities. That's because the job market is a lagging indicator of economic health. By the time the economy actually starts to lose jobs, the slowdown is often well under way -- and may soon be over.
 Mr. Paulsen of Wells Capital Management studied past periods of job losses. Since 1970, he said, ''the first two consecutive months of employment declines have often signaled that the worst is nearly over for the stock market.''
 Consider 1990. In July and August that year, the economy had back-to-back monthly drops in nonfarm payroll employment. Sure enough, within two months -- on Oct. 11, 1990 -- the S.& P. 500 hit bottom and started to recover.
 In 1980, stocks stabilized just before the job market tanked. Stocks hit a trough on March 27, 1980, a little more than a month before the economy started shedding jobs, in May and June.
 This time around, the jobs market began to contract in January and February, according to the Labor Department. Does this mean the recent market lows will be this market's bottom?
 RECOVERY CAN BE QUICK From the market's recent peak on Oct. 9, 2007, and recent bottom on March 10, the S.& P. 500 fell 19 percent. Jeffrey N. Kleintop, chief market strategist for LPL Financial, notes that there have been three other periods in the last 20 years when stocks have lost so much in such a short time. Those sell-offs were in 1990, 1998 and 2000. 
 Obviously, the 2000 downturn, prompted by the bursting of the Internet bubble, quickly morphed into a full-fledged bear market. But Mr. Kleintop noted that in the other two cases -- which occurred amid the savings-and-loan crisis of the early 1990s and the Asian currency crisis in the late 1990s -- stocks recovered quickly the next year.
 In the 12 months after the 1998 sell-off, the S.& P. 500 soared 40 percent, he noted. And 12 months after the end of the 1990 correction, stocks had rebounded an impressive 34 percent. 
 Does this mean we're assured of another spectacular recovery? Not necessarily. Investors still don't know how big the current credit crisis will be.
 But it should at least remind investors of a Wall Street adage: Sometimes, when things look bleakest, it's a sign the market is near a bottom. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); LAYOFFS (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (73%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



377 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: A Proposed Diet for the U.S. Budget

BYLINE: By HARRY HURT III

 BODY:
IF you are going to buy just one book in this presidential election year, you might want to consider ''Where Does the Money Go?: Your Guided Tour to the Federal Budget Crisis'' by Scott Bittle and Jean Johnson (Collins, $16.95 in paperback). This is a book that manages to be entertaining and irreverent while serving as an informative primer on a subject that is crucial to the future of all Americans.
 Here is the very pressing issue the book addresses: ''The United States is seemingly addicted to spending more than it takes in,'' the authors assert. With a staggering national debt, and expenses that will only grow as more baby boomers retire, they warn, ''today's problems will seem like a fender bender compared to the economic train wreck the country will face if we don't get the nation's finances under control.'' 
 These words are neither politically partisan nor alarmist. Mr. Bittle, the executive editor of the Web site Public Agenda Online, and Ms. Johnson, executive vice president and a founder of the site, fault both Democrats and Republicans as racking up huge annual deficits and even more substantial long-term national debt. They provide easily understandable charts and statistics to support their overall case. 
 And they enliven their narrative with references to the Rolling Stones, the Barenaked Ladies, ''Seinfeld'' and ''It's a Wonderful Life,'' placing them alongside more expected quotations from the likes of Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, and Robert E. Rubin, the former Treasury secretary.
 Here are some of the most pertinent facts, as set out by Mr. Bittle and Ms. Johnson: In 31 of the last 35 years, the federal government has spent more money than it has taken in. (The exceptions were the budget surplus years 1998 to 2001.) Along the way, the government has amassed a debt that now exceeds $9 trillion. Over $2 trillion of that is owed to foreign banks and other international investors, with China holding $420 billion and the oil-exporting countries $113 billion, using figures from the 2006 budget.
 ''Right now, these foreign investors consider U.S. government bonds one of the safest places in the world to put their money, but they could decide at some point that Europe or China or some other place is a better bet,'' the authors observe. ''This would be the global equivalent of a store clerk seizing your credit card and cutting it up.''
 Alas, the asset side of the federal balance sheet is rather paltry, compared with the liability side. On paper, the government's total assets, including facilities and inventory, are valued by the authors at about $1.4 trillion. If the government had to submit a standard financial statement of the type required of the average home buyer, it would show a negative net worth of $7.6 trillion.
 Mr. Bittle and Ms. Johnson predict that even with continued foreign investment and financial forbearance, the nation may soon find it impossible to fulfill its existing and future commitments to its own citizens in the form of Social Security and Medicare payments. In 2006, Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid consumed 39.7 percent of the federal budget of $2.6 trillion, compared with 19.7 percent for defense.
 In the future, the cost of entitlement programs will balloon as 78 million baby boomers age. In 2006, there were fewer than 50 million Social Security recipients; 12 years from now, there will be nearly 70 million. With health care costs rising faster than inflation, the part of Medicare that covers hospital costs for the elderly is already paying out more than it takes in from payroll taxes. 
 ''Unless something changes, we could see a time (around 2040, if nothing is done) when nearly every tax dollar collected will be needed to pay for retirement and health care for the elderly and interest on the debt,'' the authors warn. ''There will be almost no money for anything else, except maybe a basic national defense.''
 Mr. Bittle and Ms. Johnson give the lie to notions that the budget can be balanced merely by cutting out ''pork barrel'' spending and scientific, cultural and social extravagances. In 2006, projects that Congressional watchdogs broadly define as ''pork'' accounted for only $29 billion out of a total deficit of $248 billion. Expenditures on science, space and technology; arts and the humanities; foreign aid and international relations; and the programs formerly known as welfare -- all favorite targets of so-called budget hawks -- accounted for only about 4 percent of total government expenditures.
 The leading presidential contenders take traditional Republican and Democratic positions on important budget issues. Senator John McCain opposes universal health care and supports partial privatization of Social Security. Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama support universal health care and oppose the privatization of Social Security. But none of the candidates have offered a detailed plan for balancing the budget or reducing the debt.
 Mr. Bittle and Ms. Johnson do not offer a coherent plan for resolving the fiscal problems of the United States, but they propose several initiatives that they say would steer us in the right direction. These include raising to 70 the age at which people receive retirement benefits; making people pay more in Social Security taxes, as well as privatizing Social Security (''but very slowly''); rethinking the prescription drug program, is expected to add $518 billion in costs by 2013; redesigning Medicare so that people can shop around for the most effective coverage; and passing a national value-added tax to help pay for Social Security and Medicare.
 For the time being, the globally respected ''faith and credit'' of our federal government are keeping the United States afloat financially. But if we are unwilling to swallow the kind of bitter medicine that Mr. Bittle and Ms. Johnson prescribe, our country may one day be unable to make even the interest payments on our $9 trillion debt, payments that are now $226.6 billion a year -- and we would be forced to declare ourselves a bankrupt nation. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WRITERS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); BONDS (70%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (68%); WEB SITES (67%); EXPORT TRADE (61%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%)

TITLE: Where Does the Money Go?: Your Guided Tour to the Federal Budget Crisis (Book)>; Where Does the Money Go?: Your Guided Tour to the Federal Budget Crisis (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



378 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Soft Shoe In Hard Times

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 Everyone here is flummoxed about why the president is in such a fine mood.
 The dollar's crumpling, the recession's thundering, the Dow's bungee-jumping and the world's disapproving, yet George Bush has turned into Gene Kelly, tap dancing and singing in a one-man review called ''The Most Happy Fella.''
 ''I'm coming to you as an optimistic fellow,'' he told the Economic Club of New York on Friday. His manner -- chortling and joshing -- was in odd juxtaposition to the Fed's bailing out the imploding Bear Stearns and his own acknowledgment that ''our economy obviously is going through a tough time,'' that gas prices are spiking, and that folks ''are concerned about making their bills.'' 
 He began by laughingly calling the latest news on the economic meltdown ''a interesting moment'' and ended by saying that ''our energy policy has not been very wise'' and that there was ''no quick fix'' on gasp-inducing gas prices.
 ''You know, I guess the best way to describe government policy is like a person trying to drive a car in a rough patch,'' he said. ''If you ever get stuck in a situation like that, you know full well it's important not to overcorrect, because when you overcorrect you end up in the ditch.''
 Dude, you're already in the ditch.
 Boy George crashed the family station wagon into the globe and now the global economy. Yet the more terrified Americans get, the more bizarrely carefree he seems. The former oilman reacted with cocky ignorance a couple of weeks ago when a reporter informed him that gas was barreling toward $4 a gallon.
 In on-the-record sessions with reporters -- and more candid off-the-record ones -- he has seemed goofily happy in recent weeks, prickly no more but strangely liberated and ebullient.
 Even though he ordinarily hates being kept waiting, he made light of it while cooling his heels for John McCain, and did a soft shoe for the White House press. Wearing a cowboy hat, he warbled a comic Western ditty at the Gridiron Dinner a week ago -- alluding to Scooter Libby's conviction, Saudis getting richer from our oil-guzzling, Brownie's dismal Katrina performance, and Dick Cheney's winsome habit of withholding documents.
 At a dinner on Wednesday, the man who is persona non grata on the campaign trail (except for closed fund-raisers) told morose Republican members of Congress that he was totally confident that ''we can retake the House'' and ''hold the White House.''
 ''I think 2008 is going to be a fabulous year for the Republican Party!'' he said, sounding like Rachael Ray sprinkling paprika on goulash. That must have been news to House Republicans, who have no money, just lost the seat held by their former speaker, and are hemorrhaging incumbents as they head into a campaign marked by an incipient recession and an unpopular war.
 If only they could see things as the president does. Bush, who used his family connections to avoid Vietnam, told troops serving in Afghanistan on Thursday that he is ''a little envious'' of their adventure there, saying it was ''in some ways romantic.''
 Afghanistan is still roiling, as is Iraq, but W. is serene. ''Removing Saddam Hussein was the right decision early in my presidency, it is the right decision now, and it will be the right decision ever,'' he said, echoing that great American philosopher Dan Quayle, who once told Samoans, ''Happy campers you are, happy campers you have been and, as far as I am concerned, happy campers you will always be.''
 W. bragged to Republicans about his ''considered judgment'' in sending more troops to Iraq and again presented himself as an untroubled instrument of divine will. ''I believe there's an Almighty,'' he said, ''and I believe a gift of that Almighty to every man, woman and child is freedom.''
 Although the president belittled the Democrats for their policy of ''retreat,'' his surge has been a temporary and expensive place-holder for what Americans want: a policy to get us out of Iraq.
 ''Has it allowed us to reduce troop levels to below where they were when it started?'' Michael Kinsley wrote recently. ''The answer is no.'' Gen. David Petraeus told The Washington Post last week that no one in the U.S. and Iraqi governments ''feels that there has been sufficient progress by any means in the area of national reconciliation.''
 Maybe the president is just putting on a good face to keep up American morale, the way Herbert Hoover did after the crash of '29, when he continued to dress in a tuxedo for dinner.
 Or maybe the old Andover cheerleader really believes his own cheers, and that prosperity will turn up any time now, just like the W.M.D. in Iraq.
 Or perhaps it's a Freudian trip. Now that he's mucked up the world and the country, he can finally stop rebelling against his dad and relax in the certainty that the Bush name will forever be associated with crash-and-burn presidencies.
 Whatever the explanation, it's plumb loco.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); DANCE (72%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%); FUNDRAISING (60%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



379 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; FIVE YEARS IN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2502 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Insurgency Runs on Stolen Oil Profits

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.; Reporting was contributed by Michael R. Gordon, Solomon Moore and Anwar J. Ali from Baghdad, and Iraqi employees of The New York Times from Salahuddin, Falluja, and Diyala.

DATELINE: BAIJI, Iraq 

 BODY:
The Baiji refinery, with its distillation towers rising against the Hamrin Mountains, may be the most important industrial site in the Sunni Arab-dominated regions of Iraq. On a good day, 500 tanker trucks will leave the refinery filled with fuel with a street value of $10 million.
 The sea of oil under Iraq is supposed to rebuild the nation, then make it prosper. But at least one-third, and possibly much more, of the fuel from Iraq's largest refinery here is diverted to the black market, according to American military officials. Tankers are hijacked, drivers are bribed, papers are forged and meters are manipulated -- and some of the earnings go to insurgents who are still killing more than 100 Iraqis a week.
 ''It's the money pit of the insurgency,'' said Capt. Joe Da Silva, who commands several platoons stationed at the refinery.
 Five years after the war in Iraq began, the insurgency remains a lethal force. The steady flow of cash is one reason, even as the American troop buildup and the recruitment of former insurgents to American-backed militias have helped push the number of attacks down to 2005 levels. 
 In fact, money, far more than jihadist ideology, is a crucial motivation for a majority of Sunni insurgents, according to American officers in some Sunni provinces and other military officials in Iraq who have reviewed detainee surveys and other intelligence on the insurgency.
 Although many American military officials and politicians -- and even the Iraqi public -- use the term Al Qaeda as a synonym for the insurgency, some American and Iraqi experts say they believe that the number of committed religious ideologues remains small. They say that insurgent groups raise and spend money autonomously for the most part, with little centralized coordination or direction.
 Money from swindles in Iraq and from foreign patrons in places like Saudi Arabia allows a disparate, decentralized collection of insurgent cells to hire recruits and pay for large-scale attacks. But the focus on money is the insurgency's weakness as well as its strength, and one reason loyalties can be traded. For now, at least 91,000 Iraqis, many of them former enemies of the American forces, receive a regular, American-paid salary for serving in neighborhood militias.
 ''It has a great deal more to do with the economy than with ideology,'' said one senior American military official, who said that studies of detainees in American custody found that about three-quarters were not committed to the jihadist ideology. ''The vast majority have nothing to do with the caliphate and the central ideology of Al Qaeda.''
 The corruption that drives money to the insurgency is hardly limited to the Baiji refinery, which a reporter visited last month. In Mosul, for example, insurgents have skimmed profits from soda and cement factories, American officers said.
 Insurgents in Mosul also make money from kidnapping for ransom and by extorting 5 to 20 percent of the value of contracts local businessmen get from the government, said Khasro Goran, the deputy governor of Nineveh Province.
 A military official familiar with studies on the insurgency estimated that half of the insurgency's money came from outside Iraq, mainly from people in Saudi Arabia, a flow that does not appear to have decreased in recent years. 
 Iraq's Black Market
 Before the invasion of Iraq, eight gasoline stations dotted the region around Sharqat, an hour north of the refinery at the northern edge of Saddam Hussein's home province, Salahuddin. Now there are more than 50.
 Economic growth? Not exactly. It is one of the more audacious schemes that feed money to the black marketeers. Most tanker trucks intended for Sharqat never make it there. ''It's all a bluff,'' said Taha Mahmoud Ahmed, the official who oversees fuel distribution in Salahuddin. ''The fuel is not going to the stations. It's going to the black market.''
 Gas stations are often built just to gain the rights to fuel shipments, at subsidized government rates, that can be resold onto the black market at higher prices. New stations cost more than $100,000 to build, but black market profits from six or seven trucks can often cover that cost, and everything after that is profit, said officials who have studied the scheme.
 The plan also requires bribing officials in the province and Baghdad, said Col. Mohsen Awad Habib, who is from Sharqat and is now police chief in Siniya, near Baiji. He said owners of bogus gas stations told him they paid $20,000 bribes to an Oil Ministry official in Baghdad to get their paperwork approved. Local and provincial officials then extort their own cut. ''In each station you'll find high Iraqi officials who have shares,'' he said.
 In Baiji, dozens of active insurgent groups feed off corruption from the refinery, said Lt. Ali Shakir, the commander of the paramilitary Iraqi police unit here. ''If I give you all the names, your hand is going to be tired'' from writing them down, he said.
 Lieutenant Shakir said the more hard-core insurgent groups had a lot of money to pay other fighters, and he grumbled that part of the reason they thrived was that obvious thievery was never prosecuted.
 Another scheme, he said, involves a trucking company owned by a man tied to the insurgency who is also a relative of Baiji's mayor. The trucks take fuel from the refinery but are then unloaded just south of Tikrit. Making arrests would be a waste of time, he said, because provincial officials would let the perpetrators go.
 ''What can I do?'' he said. ''After a half hour, they would be released.''
 Last year, the Pentagon estimated that as much as 70 percent of the Baiji refinery's production, or $2 billion in fuels like gasoline, kerosene and diesel, disappeared annually into the black market. Baiji supplies eight provinces.
 Some of the most obvious corruption and theft, like tanker trucks hijacked at gunpoint from distribution pumps, has been curbed by Captain Da Silva and his predecessors. The American troops live inside the compound. 
 Moreover, American officials say they believe that in recent weeks, some illicit profits flowing from the refinery have diminished. The refinery has been operating at almost full capacity, they say, pouring more fuel on the market and narrowing the spread between government-mandated rates for fuel and what it fetches on the black market.
 Exploiting that spread is one key to illicit profits from the refinery. For example, in January a tanker filled with kerosene that was supposed to be worth about $10,000 was going for $19,000 in Baiji, according to surveys of black market prices for the American military. In Samarra, it cost $35,000, a result of what soldiers described as the former mayor's efforts to manipulate fuel prices.
 Most theft occurs outside the refinery, but fraud still abounds inside, too. At one refinery office, a broken control-room machine has a hole where an object has been jammed through the glass to stop a dial from turning. Most everything is recorded using paper, and tubes of correction fluid sit on the desks of clerks overseeing the flow of fuel. It is regularly used to cover up huge discrepancies in production and distribution tallies that soldiers say can only be explained by theft.
 ''We'd all be hanged'' if the refinery had operated this way under Mr. Hussein's government, one senior refinery official confided to American soldiers.
 Refinery workers plead for jobs dispensing fuel, offering to work for no pay. Far more money can be made conspiring with tanker truck drivers to skim gas from the pumps, a job some soldiers liken to being a valet parking attendant at a Las Vegas casino.
 The Flow of Illicit Profits
 American and Iraqi officials struggle to say exactly how much the insurgency reaps from its domestic financing activities. In the past, Iraqi officials have estimated that insurgents receive as much as half of all profits attributable to oil smuggling. And before the troop buildup began a year ago, an American report estimated that insurgents generated as much as $200 million a year.
 Nor is the skimming limited to the insurgency; illicit earnings from the Baiji refinery also flow to criminal gangs, tribes, the Iraqi police, local council members and provincial officials who also smuggle fuel, Iraqi officials say.
 Barham Salih, the Iraqi deputy prime minister, said he believed that the pool of money available to insurgents across Iraq had fallen in the past year, but he declined to provide an estimate himself. He said Iraqi security analysts estimated that Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia received $50,000 to $100,000 per day from swindles related to the Baiji refinery. ''It's a serious problem,'' he said.
 Those amounts are significant given the hard realities of Iraq, especially in Sunni areas where unemployment and discontent with the Shiite-run government run high. Men can be hired to hide roadside bombs for $100, officers say. And while American troops have captured stockpiles of artillery shells from Mr. Hussein's days, insurgents have adapted, building bombs from cheap materials like fertilizer and cocoa. 
 The insurgents appear to understand how valuable the Baiji refinery is to their operations. ''They have not attacked the oil refinery, because they don't want to damage their cash cow,'' said First Lt. Trent Teague, who commands the Third Platoon in Captain Da Silva's unit, the headquarters company of the First Battalion, 327th Infantry. 
 Instead, when the insurgents want to send an angry message to someone at the refinery, they attack neighborhoods where oil workers live. Two suicide bombings in these Baiji neighborhoods in December killed at least 30 people and wounded more than 100. ''It was the refinery being hit, without it being hit,'' Lieutenant Teague said.
 But the insurgents do have agents inside, and some are the very people who are supposed to thwart graft and the insurgents' influence. In February, American troops detained Ghalib Ali Hamid, the intelligence and internal affairs chief of the Oil Protection Force at the refinery, on suspicion of skimming fuel profits and having ties to insurgents.
 Among other things, officers said Mr. Hamid had issued a stern warning to one of his superiors at the refinery: ''If you're going to work here, you've got to be friends with the Islamic State of Iraq,'' a reference to an insurgent group with ties to Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia.
 Last year, a new Iraqi Army brigade commander, Col. Yaseen Taha Rajeeb, was assigned to the refinery. He helped stop some of the most blatant theft. But the colonel's paychecks were stopped soon after he began cracking down, and he was fired this year. 
 While black market fuel prices and profit margins have dropped recently, they could rise again, especially if refinery production falls off. 
 Capt. Stephen Wright, who works at the refinery with Captain Da Silva, is concerned about whether there may be unseen problems looming, like the sort of fatigue that ruptured a propane unit in January. ''If something happens to this refinery from neglect, you won't have fuel for eight provinces,'' he said, ''and we'll have 6,000 unemployed Sunnis, who are people we definitely don't want unemployed.''
 The money feeds an insurgency that is constantly adapting, and information about its exact composition and organization has continued to elude the Americans. 
 The Motivations of Insurgents
 Some American officials and politicians maintain that Sunni insurgents have deep ties with Qaeda networks loyal to Osama bin Laden in other countries. Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, whose members are mainly Iraqi but whose leadership has been described by American commanders as largely foreign, remains a well-financed and virulent force that carries out large-scale attacks.
 But there are officers in the American military who openly question how much a role jihadism plays in the minds of most people who carry out attacks. As the American occupation has worn on and unemployment has remained high, these officers say the overwhelming motivation of insurgents is the need to earn a paycheck.
 Nor do American officers say they believe that insurgent attacks are centrally coordinated. ''As far as networked coordination of attacks, we are not seeing that,'' said a military official familiar with studies on the insurgency. 
 Opposition to the occupation and fear of the Shiite- and Kurdish-dominated government and security forces ''clearly are important factors in the insurgency,'' the official said. ''But they are being rivaled by the economic factor, the deprivation that exists.''
 Maj. Kelly Kendrick, operations officer for the First Brigade Combat Team of the 101st Airborne Division in Salahuddin, estimates that there are no more than 50 hard-core ''Al Qaeda'' fighters in Salahuddin, a province of 1.3 million people that includes Baiji and the Sunni cities of Samarra and Tikrit. 
 He said most fighters were seduced not by dreams of a life following Mr. bin Laden, but by a simpler pitch: ''Here's $100; go plant this I.E.D.''
 ''Ninety percent of the guys out here who do attacks are just people who want to feed their families,'' Major Kendrick said.
 The First Brigade's commander, Col. Scott McBride, concurs. ''I don't know that I've ever heard one person say, 'I believe in a caliphate,' '' he said.
 Abu Azzam, a prominent leader of American-backed Sunni militiamen in Nasr Wa Salam, between Baghdad and Falluja, estimated that only 10 percent of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia's members adhered to extremist jihadist doctrines.
 ''Many joined Qaeda for financial and personal reasons,'' said Abu Azzam, whose militia includes former insurgents. ''The others joined Qaeda because they hate the government, or they hate the American army, or for revenge.''
 The focus on Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia obscures the activities of other major guerrilla groups in the country. Some, like Jaish-e-Muhammad, or the Army of Muhammad, which includes ex-Baathists and former military officers, continue to battle American forces. Some American officers consider another organization, the Islamic State of Iraq, to be a front group for Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia.
 But some members of other groups, including the 1920s Revolutionary Brigades and Jaish al-Islami, or the Islamic Army, have agreed to support American-financed Sunni militia forces.
 Paying former insurgents to stop attacking American forces and join neighborhood militia forces has played a crucial role in turning around security in many Sunni parts of Iraq. But American officers worry that the failure to incorporate these Sunni militiamen into the government of Iraq or find them other jobs could portend trouble.
 ''There's got to be an outlet,'' the senior military official said, referring to a job and salary not related to the insurgency. ''Without that outlet, a lot of guys will gravitate back. They are not going to starve their families. You have got to do what you have got to do to survive.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ghalib Ali Hamid, an Iraqi refinery official, was arrested on suspicion of skimming profits and having ties to insurgents
American troops at the Baiji refinery. (Pg. 1) TRYING TO SAFEGUARD IRAQ'S OIL American soldiers checked the fuel level in an Iraqi tanker at the Baiji refinery last month to see if their measurement matched the driver's records. Fuel tankers are sometimes filled beyond the recorded level as part of a scheme to steal fuel, which is then sold on the black market. (Pg. 8) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EROS HOAGLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: Vital Indicators: As the American occupation of Iraq reaches the five-year mark, some conditions have improved in the last year. But many indicators still fall short of American goals. Violence: After a buildup of forces that began in February 2007, the number of attacks has fallen to early-2005 levels. Troops: The buildup peaked in October. The number troops from other countries has declined steadily since 2006. Electricity: Generation is still well below the goal of 6 gigawatts and even further from demand which ranges from 8.5 to 9 gigawatts. Oil production: Crude oil production has been above the goal of 2.1 million to 2.2 million barrels per day since September 2007. Gas supply: Gasoline and benzene supplies have fallen and are well below the goal of 26.8 million liters per day. Sources: Attacks (Government Accountability Office)
American force strength (Defense Department)
 coalition countries' force strength, electricity, oil production and gas supplies (Brookings Institute analysis of data from the State Department) (CHARTS BY THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); BULK SHIPPING (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AL-QAEDA (88%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (88%); MARINE TANKERS (77%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (77%); HIJACKING (77%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (77%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (76%); BRIBERY (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); RELIGION (73%); CORRUPTION (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); CEMENT MFG (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (98%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



380 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: 'The Amazing Race,' as Played in the Lab

BYLINE: By G. PASCAL ZACHARY. 
G. Pascal Zachary teaches journalism at Stanford and writes about technology and economic development. E-mail: gzach@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHAT do reality TV shows like ''Survivor'' and ''America's Next Top Model'' have in common with an insurgent method of stimulating useful innovations around the world? 
 It may be hard to believe that watching Tyra Banks drive aspiring models to the breaking point can provide insight into how to accelerate technological change. 
 Well, pinch yourself. 
 Popular reality shows indeed provide a way to understand the logic behind a new wave of contests in technological innovation. Both types are driven by head-to-head competition among unknowns. And the winner takes all -- and is celebrated in the process.
 A research agency for the government is using the model to spawn a new generation of driverless cars. Google is sponsoring a $20-million-grand-prize race to the moon and back for commercially feasible spacecraft. 
 And this week, the newest contest -- for a drivable, affordable car that gets 100 miles a gallon -- will be formally started at the New York International Auto Show. Sponsored by the X Prize Foundation, which is also running the lunar contest, the car contest is really two in one. In 2010, there will be a winner in the ''city'' category, which permits three-wheelers, and another in a category for four-wheel, four-seat cars.
 ''Human beings do some of our best work under the pressure of competition,'' says Peter H. Diamandis, chairman of the X Prize Foundation, based in Santa Monica, Calif. ''Cooperation is wonderful, but it doesn't lend to breakthroughs or true innovations.''
 The usual way that companies -- and sometimes even government agencies -- spawn advances is to employ staff members or contractors to create them. The market then rewards the winning products. The problem, however, is that the market sometimes delivers just incremental improvements, especially in areas of energy, transportation and health. Breakthroughs are imagined, but not mass-produced. 
 Contests, which come with a deadline, aim to create a sense of urgency, conjuring up a ''race'' mind-set that harks back to the cold war. After World War II, competition between the United States and the Soviet Union fostered races in space and weapons, for instance. In 1927, Charles Lindbergh made aviation history winning a $25,000 prize for being the first pilot to fly nonstop between New York and Paris.
 Why have contests proliferated in recent years? ''Tycoons have come into it,'' says Stewart Brand, president of the Long Now Foundation, which aims to raise awareness on solving long-term technological problems. The X-Prizes, for instance, are funded by such wealthy people as Elon Musk, a co-founder of PayPal, and Stewart Blusson, who made a fortune in diamonds.
 The sponsor rewards only the winner. The contestants invest their own money, thus expanding the pool of capital devoted to the field. Taking a page from the playbook of professional sports, contestants can often attract sponsorships from those who want to benefit from publicity generated by the competition -- publicity that flows even to the losing contestants.
 ''The recognition given a prize is significant,'' not merely vanity, ''because it can set fire to people's imaginations,'' says Tapio Alvesalo, secretary general of the Millennium Technology Prize Foundation in Finland; that prize was first awarded in 2004. (The prize, which goes to a creator of a breakthrough innovation, pays about $1.5 million. In 2006, Shuji Nakamura won for inventing blue, green and white light-emitting diodes; finalists for the next award will be announced in April.)
 Because publicity attracts more contestants, hyping prizes seems inevitable. On its Web site, the X Prize Foundation declares that it supports ''the most radical approach to innovation yet.''
 Skeptics say that prizes often merely confirm what has already been done in the lab -- and that too often they shower attention on the contest's founders. Look at all the free advertising Google receives for its role in the moon-travel prize, for instance. 
 ''Creating useful innovations ought to be self-rewarding,'' says Robert Friedel, a historian of technology at the University of Maryland. ''If you need a prize, then maybe it's not an invention worth pursuing.'' 
 Although the contests have flaws, they bring innovators into the open. That can inspire young inventors -- and tip off venture capitalists to the next big thing. Indeed, V.C.'s watch these contests to get leads on whom to fund.
 ''These contests and prizes become a quality-control mechanism,'' says Yogen Dalal, a managing director of the Mayfield Fund, a venture capital firm in Menlo Park, Calif. ''Often the winners -- and losers -- don't have a fundable plan, but they've done enough to entice a V.C. to help them.''
 To be sure, the devil is in the details. The creation of a great contest echoes the lesson of the Goldilocks story: make the goal not too difficult, but not too easy, either. 
 ''We have to find the intersection of audacity and achievability,'' Mr. Diamandis says.
 In the case of the car competition, contestants must enter vehicles that are safe to drive and affordable to build, through means defined by a dense set of rules. The guidelines run 37 pages.
 As more innovation contests are introduced, the more obvious goals may already be met. For instance, there is an all-electric car made by Tesla Motors of San Carlos, Calif. -- going into production Monday -- that promises to achieve more than 100 miles to the gallon. But the Tesla car is only a two-seater. 
 The complexities of creating the auto prize illustrate a wider problem of how to come up with ever more novel tests of human ingenuity over time. Mr. Brand of the Long Now Foundation predicts that contests will soon pursue ''things we truly think of as impossible.'' 
 Mr. Brand's wish list includes machines that defy gravity or that allow us to read the minds of other people. 
 Hey, Tyra Banks, are you available for an afternoon of Vulcan mind-
 meld? 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Tango, an entry in the automotive X Prize contest for vehicles that can get 100 miles a gallon.(PHOTOGRAPH BY COMMUTER CARS)
The Google-sponsored lunar X Prize contest is a race to the moon that includes robotic rover entries by Team Astrobotic, above
Team Frednet, left
 and Team ARCA, below left.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RENDERINGS BY ANDREW COLLIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (93%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); COLD WAR (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (77%); NEW CAR MODELS (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); SPACE EXPLORATION (68%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (64%); WORLD WAR II (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (56%); PAYPAL INC (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (50%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (50%)

PERSON: TYRA BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



381 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1809 words

HEADLINE: What Young Designers Dream Of

BYLINE: By CHERYL JENSEN

 BODY:
THE design studies known as concept cars, which are staples at auto shows and often inspirations for the cars of tomorrow, are also test beds for new ideas. The newest designers in an automaker's studio often have a hand in these -- with ideas that spring from creative young minds to become dream-car matter.
 Who, at the moment, are the young designers worth watching, the young people who may become the next Ralph Gilles (creator of the Chrysler 300) or Franz von Holzhausen (who designed the Pontiac Solstice before moving to Mazda)? In conversations with senior designers, auto executives and design school faculty members, a few names came up over and over. 
 Here is a look at some up-and-comers who played significant roles in creating concept vehicles being displayed at major auto shows this year, including some that will be featured at the New York auto show, which opens to the public on Friday, March 21: 
 BILL ZHENG 
 CHRYSLER
 Even when he lived a half a world away, Bill Zheng, 30, seemed destined to become a designer for Chrysler. Mr. Zheng said he had been a fan of Jeeps since he was a child in Shanghai. Then, in the 1990s, after his family moved to Michigan, he was impressed by the ''dynamite'' concept cars and production models coming from Chrysler's studios.
 And Chrysler designers were involved in the industrial design program at the Cleveland Institute of Art in Ohio, where, in addition to car design, Mr. Zheng got experience in furniture and product design. He was hired by Chrysler upon his graduation in 2000 and is now design manager for small, premium and family vehicles.
 The Dodge Zeo, a design study for a sporty electric car, sprang from a studio competition. ''Bill's design hit it out of the park with the first sketch,'' said Joe Dehner, vice president for small, premium and family vehicles. ''It was a side view with the doors open and it blew me away proportionally. At the end of the day, big wheels and tires, a long wheelbase and short overhangs still look good.''
 The end result was an electric car that defies expectations. Mr. Zheng contended that electric vehicles will yet become as common as those powered by gasoline or diesel fuel, and that they deserved to have different design personalities. ''So to say that electric cars should look like electric cars is a dated thing,'' he said.
 He did, however, want a hint of an electric vehicle identity. So, the conventional grille was abandoned in favor of a version illuminated by blue L.E.D.'s.
 ''The Zeo is basically a muscle car, but it's not powered by a V-8,'' Mr. Zheng said. ''It's quiet, but it goes superfast. The image of a green car is kind of timid. I'm very environmentally conscious, but I love sports cars.''
 JENNIFER HEWLETT
 FORD MOTOR COMPANY
 As part of an image overhaul for Lincoln, the brand imagined its latest concept car, the MKT, as an example of guilt-free luxury, a seeming contradiction in terms. Jennifer Hewlett, 28, a color and materials designer, was tapped to come up with an appropriate interior.
 At the College for Creative Studies in Detroit, Ms. Hewlett studied industrial design, fine arts and furniture building, gaining experience in working with wood, metal, fiber, ceramics and glass, and particularly in learning about how to relate such materials to one another. ''It's one of the crucial points of a vehicle, all these materials coming together and harmonizing,'' she said. 
 Her previous work included color and materials for the 2009 MKS. 
 ''When the new MKS was coming out we thought it would be a really good match for her because of her taste level, her sense of style, as well as her skills,'' said Susan Sage, the color and materials design manager at Ford. 
 It was because of the success of those vehicles that Ms. Hewlett was chosen to be part of the team that designed the 2007 MKR concept car and now the MKT, Ms. Sage said.
 Ms. Hewlett said that with the MKT, her design inspiration was a feather. She tried to bring the lightness, translucence and layering of a feather to the colors in the passenger cabin, while using earth-friendly materials, like a rug made with banana fibers.
 The stained oak veneers come from recycled oak, already found in some other Lincolns. The MKT's leather is made using an organic tanning method, free of harsh chromium additives.
 Ms. Hewlett said she liked using these organic materials and processes because, ''It's something that makes our customers feel good about the products they are buying.''
 BERNARD LEE
 MAZDA 
 Furai is Japanese for ''sound of the wind.'' Streamers, kite tails and a sheet in the wind are images that Bernard Lee, 32, imagined when designing the Furai (pronounced FOO-rye) concept.
 ''I chose wind because a racecar is all about downforce, and aerodynamics are very key to its function,'' he said. ''So I wanted to see how materials can be manipulated by the wind and get the visual interpretation of that force of nature.
 ''If you look on the body side of the car, there are these really waving lines, and it's supposed to mimic the way a sheet in the wind moves. At the beginning, it's very graceful, and then as you get to the tail end of the sheet it becomes very turbulent and it flutters.''
 Franz von Holzhausen, design director for Mazda North America, said Mr. Lee's model had ''a really nice balance of proportion, of sense of movement, of controlled chaos and quietness.''
 After graduating from the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena in 1997, Mr. Lee spent three years at Honda and seven years at Ford. He joined Mazda a year ago and is a senior designer. 
 Though he had drawn cars since he was 5, Mr. Lee might have become a doctor like his father had his parents had their way. Instead, it was a sixth-grade teacher in Los Angeles, who had caught him drawing in class, who steered him on the road to design. 
 ''I thought I was going to be in a lot of trouble,'' he said. ''But she took my drawing and said, 'That's pretty good.' She told me her son was a car designer and that I could do this for a living. She showed me some of his drawings, and I was so blown away that someone could be so talented and draw cars for a living.
 ''Because of her,'' he added, ''I got to live out a childhood dream.''
 GARY RAGLE
 MITSUBISHI 
 It is as if Gary Ragle never had a choice but to be somehow involved with autos: he is the third generation in his family to work in the auto industry. His grandfather worked for British Leyland; his father for Ford.
 Now Mr. Ragle, 29, is a senior designer for Mitsubushi Motors Research and Design of America in Cypress, Calif.
 ''I was always good at art and I always loved cars from Day 1,'' he said. ''My dad is a big hot-rod guy and some of my earliest memories were being crammed into the small front seat of a '34 Chevy coupe going to the hot-rod shows.''
 But it wasn't until Mr. Ragle attended the University of Cincinnati in his hometown and decided to go into industrial design that he found out people could make a living designing cars. When he graduated in 2002 he joined Mitsubishi.
 Dave O'Connell, the studio's chief designer, said: ''Gary is very creative, innovative and very hard-working, and as an artist the guy does amazing art work. You look at the renderings that he does, even the loose sketches, and they really get you excited. And I've been a designer for 30 years.''
 The assignment that became the Concept RA (which stands for ''Road Alive'') was to design a vehicle that would showcase new technology, including a 4-cylinder turbodiesel engine and all-wheel drive.
 His visionwas selected after an internal design competition against about 30 others from Mitsubishi's studios in Japan, Germany and California. 
 He said the Concept RA doesn't look environmentally friendly, although the diesel was intended to provide good fuel economy and low emissions. ''There are vehicles like the Prius out there that look environmentally friendly, but I think a sports car should look like a sports car,'' he said. 
 MICHAEL THOMAS
 GENERAL MOTORS 
 If someone says ''automotive design,'' what usually comes to mind is a vehicle's exterior, not components like the steering wheel or radio. General Motors' Michael Thomas, 30, admitted that he was no different. 
 ''You don't think of it that much, which is kind of ironic considering that's what you interact with the most,'' he said. Now, after working in component design -- he is creative designer for G.M.'s Component Design Strategy Center -- Mr. Thomas has a different perspective. He designed the steering wheel for the Cadillac CTS.
 He attended the Cleveland Institute of Art and was initially interested in jewelry design, partly because of the influence of his parents, who were stained-glass artists.
 Working at Ford, Bose and finally G.M., Mr. Thomas gained a growing understanding that parts of the interior can be a kind of jewelry that are important to a brand's image and to an owner.
 ''For the CTS you really want to emphasize luxury and quality,'' he said. ''It becomes critical to iron out things like the fit and finish, craftsmanship and materials so that when the customer is handling it, it feels like luxury and it feels like quality.''
 He likened the CTS wheel, with its leather and stitching, to a fine purse. ''You say, 'What makes the leather in a purse appear high-end, and how can we incorporate that into the design?' ''
 As a musician who plays professionally with his wife, he draws inspiration from instruments. ''If you look at the details of a clarinet, something people have been using for centuries, that design has been so refined and executed so perfectly. That can be inspirational.''
 MATT SPERLING
 TOYOTA 
 The A-BAT, a four-wheel-drive hybrid pickup, is Toyota's attempt to respond not just to compact trucks that are getting bigger and bigger, but to increasingly important environmental issues.
 Matt Sperling, 28, of Toyota's Calty design studio in Newport Beach, Calif., designed the A-BAT's exterior. He said he could relate to those issues.
 ''I have a Tacoma myself and I love that thing to death, but sometimes it's a little too big for me,'' he said. ''This was kind of my own personal response to that. If I could get my hands on this in real life I would use it every day.''
 To make an environmental connection and link it to the Toyota hybrid family, Mr. Sperling gave the concept the trapezoidal silhouette of the Prius.
 Mr. Sperling was hired in 2002 after studying at the College for Creative Studies, where his mother had enrolled him in a car-design course when he was a high school senior. Her reasoning: at school, he was always drawing cars instead of paying attention. 
 ''It was the most brutal course I ever took,'' he recalled, ''but it got me introduced to the world of car design. I fell in love and that was it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ECO-LUXURY: Jennifer Hewlett used banana fibers and recycled oak in the Lincoln MKT's interior.
WIRED: Bill Zheng of Chrysler with the Dodge Zeo, a sporty electric- drive concept car. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIDGET BARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. AU1)
WINDY: Bernard Lee and Furai.
BIG WHEEL: Michael Thomas of G.M.
FUTURISTIC: Matt Sperling of Toyota.
 LOOKING SPORTY: Gary Ragle, a Mitsubishi designer, with the Concept RA.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIDGET BARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); CONCEPT CARS (91%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); DIESEL FUEL (60%); GASOLINE (60%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%)

PERSON: RALPH GILLES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (69%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (55%) OHIO, USA (69%) CHINA (70%); UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



382 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Subprime Cases Head to Court

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
A GROWING number of borrowers who have run their finances aground with poor mortgage decisions are calling lenders and seeking to renegotiate. A smaller, but also quickly growing, number of borrowers are calling lawyers instead. 
 The number of lawsuits filed against mortgage-related companies has soared in recent months, said Jeff Nielsen, a managing director of Navigant Consulting in Chicago who has helped to lead a study on the topic.
 And although it is too soon to tell whether these cases will succeed, the surge of litigation may help shield future borrowers from loans for which they are poorly suited.
 ''When it comes to consumer-protection issues with respect to mortgages, we will see a watershed change,'' Mr. Nielsen said. ''That's one of the byproducts of what we're going through, with litigation.''
 Already, Mr. Nielsen and other industry analysts said, federal regulators and legislators are pursuing a number of mortgage-related regulations, including measures requiring lenders to simplify their explanations of loan terms -- ''disclosure'' in industry parlance -- and proposed laws to discourage mortgage originators from steering borrowers into costlier loans.
 In his study of lawsuits in the subprime mortgage industry, Mr. Nielsen found that cases related to subprime lending in federal courts nearly doubled, to 181 from 97, in the second half of 2007 compared with the first half. Nearly half of the cases were filed in California and New York.
 Mr. Nielsen, who conducted similar studies during the savings and loan crisis of the 1980s, said the number of subprime cases filed in 2007 alone is nearly half the number settled by the federal government in the first five years of the savings and loan meltdown. ''And this is just the beginning,'' he said.
 Forty-three percent of the subprime cases were class-action suits filed on behalf of multiple borrowers, while 44 percent involved disputes between investors or other companies in the mortgage industry.
 Prominent in the class-action claims are allegations that lenders failed to adequately disclose the terms of the loans with interest rates that rise sharply after a short introductory period. In other cases, borrowers claim they were discriminated against because of their race and were offered loans with interest rates that were higher than those offered to other racial groups.
 Most of the class-action suits, Mr. Nielsen said, have been brought in California, which led the nation in subprime borrowing. 
 In one New York case, Ronald Anderson, a Brooklyn resident, contends that the Option One Mortgage Corporation induced him ''into a financial trap in the form of a mortgage structured to hide extraordinarily high rates.''
 Randall S. Newman, the Manhattan lawyer representing Mr. Anderson, said that Option One failed to disclose clearly in late 2004 that the interest rate on Mr. Anderson's $370,000 mortgage would rise to 10.75 percent from 7.75 percent after 24 months. Mr. Newman said that increase, about $775 a month, was too much for Mr. Anderson to manage. Option One, which is seeking to foreclose against him, declined to comment.
 Mr. Newman contends that Option One's actions violated the federal Truth in Lending Act, which requires lenders to provide certain disclosures about mortgage fees. He said that the loan should be rescinded and Mr. Anderson should be compensated. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) Chart details line graph for 30 and 15 year fixed rate mortgages. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); BANK FAILURES (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); LAWYERS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (55%)

COMPANY: W L ROSS & CO LLC (61%); NAVIGANT CONSULTING INC (57%)

TICKER: NCI (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (61%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (61%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (61%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



383 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1614 words

HEADLINE: Stories From A World In Motion

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
IT seems fair to say that in the world today there are not many stories bigger or more complicated than the movement of large groups of people from one country to another. And yet, perhaps because it is so vast and complex, it is a story that can be comprehended only in its fine-grained, human particulars. A timeworn piece of Hollywood wisdom (occasionally attributed to Dostoevsky, John Gardner or some other writer) holds that every narrative arises from one of two situations: Someone goes on a journey, or a stranger comes to town. The immigrant's story, in its basic form, fulfills both of these archetypes. An individual or a family leaves a familiar world, by either choice, necessity or some perceived combination of the two, and arrives in a place that is as strange to the newcomers as they are to it. 
 In the United States, Western Europe and other relatively wealthy parts of the world, immigration is currently a subject of raw political contention. As such, it is a topic that tends to be discussed both heatedly and somewhat abstractly. The debate is heavy with numbers: the millions of new arrivals; the estimated costs and benefits of allowing them in or trying to keep them out; the changing demographic profiles of neighborhoods, cities and regions. Hovering above these calculations are cultural anxieties and ideological conundrums that are, if anything, even more abstract: questions of assimilation and diversity, of security and cultural identity, of human rights and social obligations, of economic globalization and national sovereignty.
 Organizing all this argument and emotion into stories has become an especially acute and fruitful challenge. Of course, variations on the two-fold tale of departure and arrival have been a literary staple, especially in the United States, for more than a century. The wave of immigration, mainly from Eastern and Southern Europe, that began at the end of the 19th century and ended in 1925 has been, for subsequent generations, a wellspring of nostalgia, a way of connecting modern American lives with a more exotic history in the old country or the old neighborhood. And since 1965, when new immigration laws began to bring in large numbers of new arrivals from Asia, South America and elsewhere, there has been a revival of this tradition. Every publishing season brings novels and memoirs that offer fresh variations on the apparently inexhaustible themes of displacement and relocation.
 But until recently these themes have never been quite as ubiquitous on movie screens. Though the American film industry was founded largely by enterprising immigrants and has been fed by successive streams of talented emigres, Hollywood has generally preferred to depict an idealized, homogeneous America, where the nonwhite and the nonnative linger in the margins and the shadows. The exceptions have mainly been examples of the backward-looking, second-generation tradition, films like the ''Godfather'' cycle, an ambivalent epic of an Italian family's incomplete Americanization, or ''Fiddler on the Roof,'' a sentimental journey back to the world of the Eastern European shtetl, from whence the grandparents and great-grandparents of so many American Jews had come. Knowing how the story ends -- with Americans paging through their family albums, marveling at what their ancestors had been through -- gives even the painful passages in stories like these a warm, soothing glow.
 Retrospect also helped make the experience look simpler than it may really have been and certainly simpler than what confronts the world now. Those films, and others like them, traced the passage from a premodern, peasant way of life into a modern world of cities, factories and social mobility. ''Golden Door,'' a recent film by Emanuele Crialese, an Italian director, re-enacts this transition in an especially stark and powerful way, bringing an extended family from a poor, rural corner of southern Italy up to the edge of New York City and leaving the viewer to imagine what the new arrivals find when they cross the threshold. The voyagers themselves, having been seduced by doctored postcards showing giant chickens and coins growing on bushes, cannot imagine what they will encounter, and Mr. Crialese succeeds in conveying the intense strangeness of their impending arrival. He tries, with some success, to overcome the comforting artifice of costume drama, to infuse history with the uncertainty of the present tense.
 Mr. Crialese also recalls an era when global communication relied on steamships and telegraphs and when differences of language and custom seemed more profound than they might today. ''The Golden Door'' uses the medium's powers of empathy and estrangement -- its capacity to bring about an intuitive recognition of an utterly alien human reality -- to measure the enormous distance its characters travel. 
 But in the present, the distances have shrunk. Movies that deal with migration in the modern world tend to emphasize the often disconcerting connections that seem to web the Earth and link people whether they are aware of the links or not. Their stories are, perhaps as a consequence, less linear, shuttling between places and times rather than moving irreversibly from one to the other. And the camera too crosses borders, traveling, perhaps with deceptive ease, from one country to another without necessarily coming to rest anywhere.
 In ''La Misma Luna'' (''Under the Same Moon''), a new film from the Mexican director Patricia Riggen, a young boy and his mother live on opposite sides of the United States-Mexico border, she in Los Angeles, he in the town she left when she moved North. In some ways, they live in different worlds, and Ms. Riggen takes note of the small, everyday details that distinguish one place from the other. But they are also connected by telecommunications and by the director's narrative method, which cross-cuts between them as they move toward a possible reunion. Carlitos, the boy, sets out across the border, facing the hazards and hardships with disarming cheerfulness, while his mother, Rosario, contemplates a journey home, an escape from hard work and the constant fear of deportation as well as a chance to see Carlitos again.
 ''La Misma Luna,'' which is rated PG and was recently shown in the New York International Children's Film Festival (it is set to open Wednesday ), is a gentle and accessible movie. Rosario's life is hard, and her son encounters some serious danger, but the tone is adventurous and mildly melodramatic rather than harsh or upsetting. But Ms. Riggen's narrative strategy is, in some ways, a simplified version of the multistranded storytelling found in movies like ''Babel'' or ''Fast Food Nation.''
 Neither of those movies, both of which came out around the same time in 2006 (after having their premieres at that year's Cannes Film Festival), is, strictly speaking, an immigrant tale, but both take the global flow of people and information as a theme and a plotline. And they, like ''La Misma Luna,'' take pains to point out that inequality and exploitation, along with isolation and estrangement, are features of the global economy. They offer an implicit critique of the optimistic, tolerant multiculturalism that has become a central feature of modern American ideology: a more fatalistic sense of contradiction and complication.
 Something similar -- a feeling that migration is the symptom of a large-scale social crisis rather than the individual solution to an economic or political problem -- arises in many of the European films that focus on the experiences of immigrants. In Europe, mass immigration is both a newer phenomenon than it is in the United States and also a source of more pronounced political tension. In some cases, the presence of large foreign-born populations tests traditions of liberalism and openness; in others, it brings up unresolved legacies of colonialism or extreme nationalism. And the stories told by French, Italian and German filmmakers -- some of them immigrants or the children of immigrants from North Africa or the Middle East -- reflect this unsettlement.
 But they also try to find within it a core of human reality, which may be the most complicating factor of all. A sense of stubborn individualism, which can't be reduced to cultural identity or political abstraction, informs the films of the Tunisian-born French director Abdellatif Kechiche, whose three features so far (''La Faute a Voltaire,'' ''L'Esquive'' and ''La Graine et le Mulet'') are thick with idiosyncrasy and cultural complication. The same might be said of Fatih Akin, the German son of Turkish parents, whose films confound every imaginable cliche and assumption about Europe, Islam, community and desire. His new film, ''The Edge of Heaven,'' is a tale of crosshatched destinies in which the journey from Turkey to Germany is made and reversed several times. One of the characters is a professor of German literature who travels to Turkey, his father's homeland but no longer really his own, and opens up a German bookstore. He is, perhaps, Mr. Akin's surrogate in the film, but he is certainly its embodiment at once of cosmopolitanism and also of a pervasive cultural confusion -- which may, in the end, be the same thing.
 ''The Edge of Heaven'' never comes to rest: there is no point of arrival, of assimilation to a new home or return to an old one. And ''La Misma Luna,'' a very different kind of movie in most ways, concludes on an image of irresolution, or continued perpetual motion. It tells an old story -- one of the oldest -- but one that never ends, except in the discovery, once again, of a new world.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, the director Patricia Riggen with Adrian Alonso on the set of ''La Misma Luna'' (''Under the Same Moon''). Below, Baki Davrak, left, and Nursei Kose in ''The Edge of Heaven,'' directed by Fatih Akin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KERSTIN STELTER/STRAND RELEASING)(PHOTOGRAPH BY FOX SEARCHLIGHT)(pg. AR16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); LITERATURE (76%); FILM (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (70%); IMMIGRATION LAW (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (65%); GLOBALIZATION (64%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



384 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN WOODSIDE, QUEENS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: Cheap, Convenient and Teeming

BYLINE: By JAKE MOONEY

 BODY:
WHEN Fiona Gallagher, who is from County Antrim in Northern Ireland, first came to the United States in the 1980s, she followed word of mouth to Woodside, Queens, an unassuming neighborhood along the No. 7 train where scores of Irish immigrants had already landed. She was 20, searching for a place to get settled, and liked its feeling of familiarity.
 ''You want to be somewhere where you feel a little comfortable, you kind of know people,'' Ms. Gallagher said recently. ''If you're looking for a job or looking for an apartment, that's how you would find out about these things, because people in the neighborhood know where to go.''
 Woodside's reputation as an Irish enclave has endured. The area under the elevated train station by 61st Street and Roosevelt Avenue is sprinkled with Irish pubs, and a recent early St. Patrick's Day parade that started in nearby Sunnyside ended here. 
 At the same time, the Irish population itself has dwindled. People have moved on to other neighborhoods or back to Ireland to take advantage of its strong economy; newcomers from around the world have filled the void, flocking to a neighborhood with affordable housing and convenient access to Manhattan. 
 Joseph Conley, the chairman of Community Board 2, which includes this neighborhood of about 90,000 people, says burgeoning Bangladeshi and Filipino populations have joined Irish and Italian communities in the area.
 Walking its streets, one sees Mexican and Indonesian businesses, and -- as on one block just south of Roosevelt Avenue on a recent Sunday -- a van belonging to a Korean church and another to Thailand's national airline, and then two men in kilts and knee socks strolling past the parade route.
 What draws all those kinds of people, Mr. Conley said, is safety -- the 108th Precinct, which covers the area, traditionally has some of the lowest crime rates in the city -- and proximity to three subway lines, the Long Island Rail Road and several major roads. 
 In fact, he added, the area's biggest problem is coping with the strains of development. With large new apartment buildings being built, and single-family houses being converted, legally and illegally, into multiunit buildings, on-street parking is scarce. Schools are crowded, he said; at one, trailers are being used for overflow classes. Mr. Conley's board has asked the city's Planning Department to toughen zoning in the area.
 Tama R. Robertson, an associate broker at Bellmarc Realty, says interest remains strong among people seeking a way into the market near Manhattan. 
 ''If they have more than one child or are expecting a child,'' she said, ''they can actually afford the second bedroom, or often a third bedroom, that there's no way they could expect in Manhattan.'' 
 Ms. Gallagher, now 39, never left the area and in 2005 bought an apartment in an 12-acre co-op complex. For her, the neighborhood is just right. She has access to the panoply of ethnic restaurants along the No. 7 train in nearby neighborhoods, and to some favorite spots within the neighborhood too. And, as she was reminded while training for a marathon recently, the Queensboro Bridge and the far side of the East River are within reach. 
 ''If you wanted to run to Manhattan,'' she said, ''it's only three miles.'' 
 WHAT YOU'LL FIND
 The area's main commercial district is along Roosevelt Avenue, under intersecting elevated tracks, where commuter-oriented businesses like pizza places and newsstands mix with restaurants serving the varied ethnic groups. 
 To the southeast, the section just north of Queens Boulevard between 60th Street and the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway has been a hotbed of development, Mr. Conley said. He described one recent case in which a developer who was tearing down an old house to build a six-story residential building compromised with the board to preserve a 227-year-old tree. 
 North of the business district, the area straddling Broadway and Northern Boulevard is quieter, marked by blocks of two-story brick houses, many with driveways. One afternoon in this section, along 37th Avenue, the smell of cardamom and cloves filled the air. 
 That part of the two-square-mile neighborhood also has industrial areas -- though there is evidence even there of residential construction, particularly along Broadway. One such property was once a lumber store but will soon be condos, said Mr. Conley, who added that his board has been concerned about maintaining blue-collar jobs. ''It's very important to us,'' he said. ''Those are the good-paying jobs.''
 At the northwestern end, closest to Astoria, is Boulevard Gardens, the co-op where Ms. Gallagher lives, in a complex of 10 buildings with 6 stories each, and a total of 960 units. Ms. Robertson of Bellmarc, who sold Ms. Gallagher her apartment there, says clients enjoy the complex's quiet, homey feel and relatively low maintenance fees. 
 In the wake of the mortgage crisis, though, some would-be buyers have had difficulty meeting the co-op's rule that no more than 30 percent of a resident's income can go toward mortgage and maintenance fees. In general, she said, tighter lending standards have hurt potential buyers in the neighborhood.
 ''I've asked, 'Well, have you checked with your mortgage broker in the last two or three months?' '' she said. ''And then they go back and check with the mortgage broker and find that there are fewer products available to them.''
 WHAT YOU'LL PAY
 Single-family houses in Woodside tend to sell for $500,000 to $600,000, said Yasser Aziz Bassily, a Queens-based broker with Prudential Douglas Elliman. Two-family houses, which are popular in the area, can sell for more than $700,000, said Joan Lamanna, an agent at Fillmore Real Estate, whose data also showed several recent sales of three-family houses for less than $900,000.
 For co-ops, Mr. Bassily said, buyers can expect to pay a little less than $200,000 for one bedroom and a little more than $200,000 for two -- though prices edge higher for well-maintained, conveniently located places. Prices also are higher for condominiums, according to Weisung Wang, another Prudential Douglas Elliman broker, who said they generally sold for around $300,000 for one bedroom and $400,000 for two. 
 Two-bedroom rentals can be had for around $1,500 per month, one-bedrooms for around $1,200 and three-bedrooms for $2,000 or so.
 WHAT TO DO
 Local residents swear that the banner outside Donovan's Pub on Roosevelt Avenue boasting of the city's best burgers is no overstatement; similarly, Sripraphai, a Thai restaurant on 39th Street, has developed a citywide following. For outdoor recreation, however, Woodside is a challenge: it has little green space.
 ''We continue to say, every time we talk to a developer or anytime something comes past us, 'What about open space?' '' Mr. Conley said. There is plenty of land and fresh air in the expansive New Calvary Cemetery at the south end of the neighborhood, but, as Mr. Conley noted, ''it's not a place where you can put up a swing set for your kids.''
 THE COMMUTE
 The elevated station at 61st Street and Roosevelt Avenue has an express No. 7 train that, according to residents, can reach Midtown in 20 minutes or less. It also has a link to the Long Island Rail Road, and access to the system's Port Washington line, which stops at Shea Stadium and the Billie Jean King National Tennis Center. Farther north, the R and V trains along Broadway, stop at Northern Boulevard and 65th Street. 
 THE SCHOOLS
 Woodside has at least five public elementary schools -- four with more than 1,000 students, the other with more than 500. The area's only middle school is Intermediate School 125, on 47th Avenue.
 The nearest public high schools are Newtown High School, in Elmhurst, and Long Island City High School. Newtown students taking the most recent SAT averaged 393 in reading, 444 in math and 385 in writing, versus 441, 462 and 433 citywide. Averages at Long Island City High were 419, 442 and 409. 
 The neighborhood also has several private schools, some religious. Corpus Christi School, at the northern end, offers prekindergarten through Grade 8, as does St. Sebastian School, on 58th Street, near the middle of the neighborhood. The Razi School, an Islamic school on Queens Boulevard, has more than 400 enrolled in kindergarten through Grade 12.
 THE HISTORY
 According to the Encyclopedia of New York City, the area was settled in the late 17th century, and a ridge near what is now Woodside Avenue served as a route for couriers during the Revolution. The area grew with the arrival of rail and trolley connections, including the train to Manhattan in 1861 and the elevated subway in 1917. The last open land disappeared during a development boom in the 1920s.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 30, 2008

 CORRECTION:
 A map with the ''Living In'' article on March 16 about Woodside, Queens, referred incorrectly to a subway line in the neighborhood. The G, R and V line does not carry E and F trains. (Within Woodside, E and F trains run on a separate line, not shown on the map, but that line eventually merges with the line carrying the G, R and V trains.) (Go to Article)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GONE GREEN: Woodside is diverse but historically Irish. In pubs like these near the intersection of Woodside and Roosevelt Avenues, St. Patrick's Day has a keen resonance.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP Map details area of Woodside, Queens. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); PARADES & MARCHES (73%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); CITY LIFE (66%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%); AIRLINES (63%); CITIES (61%); CRIME RATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN IRELAND (91%); IRELAND (79%); THAILAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



385 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; ENVIRONMENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: State Seeks to Regain Recycling Momentum

BYLINE: By KIRSTY SUCATO

DATELINE: OCEAN TOWNSHIP 

 BODY:
 WHEN Maryann Keseday lifts the lid off her kitchen garbage can, she often suffers a pang of guilt. 
 A freelance court reporter and mother of two, she tosses junk mail, cereal boxes, kitchen scraps, batteries and magazines into the trash. She figures she should probably recycle these things, she says, but she is not sure what to do with them. She dutifully organizes cans, bottles, plastics and newspaper for curbside pickup, although she often forgets which Wednesday, once a month, is newspaper day and has to follow her neighbors' lead.
 '' 'I do what I'm supposed to do, but don't ask me to do any more than that,' is kind of the way I look at it,'' she said. ''I do care about the environment, but I'm also a busy woman, and I think that the people who know more about it will take care of it.'' 
 All over the state, many well-meaning and eco-conscious residents like Ms. Keseday, 58, have been left to navigate a confusing and sometimes overwhelming patchwork of recycling regulations handed down from all levels of government. As a result, New Jersey, the first state to mandate recycling, in 1987, has slipped from a national leader to a laggard, falling far behind a goal it set in 1992 to recycle half of all municipal waste by 2000.
 But recycling advocates say this is about to change. Faced with mounting garbage and limited landfill space, state lawmakers have recently passed a series of measures intended to revitalize recycling.
 ''There is no question that New Jersey is poised for a recycling renaissance,'' said State Senator Bob Smith, a Democrat of Piscataway and the chairman of the Senate Environment Committee. ''We are very hopeful that two years from now we're going to see New Jersey as the nation's leader in recycling as it once was.''
 New Jersey had one of the highest recycling rates in the country in 1995 when it recycled about 45 percent of its municipal trash. But by 2005, the most recent year for which figures are available, the rate had dropped to 33.8 percent, just above the national average of 32 percent, said Guy Watson, the chief of the Bureau of Recycling and Planning for the State Department of Environmental Protection.
 Experts say the decline in recycling can be traced to 1996, when the state stopped directly financing local recycling programs. Cities and towns facing other budget constraints cut recycling outreach programs and people stopped separating recyclables from garbage as enforcement also fell by the wayside.
 But at the same time, landfills for solid wastes have started reaching their capacity. According to a 1996 D.E.P. estimate, New Jersey had only eight years of landfill capacity left. Yet trash is growing at 4 percent a year even as recycling has declined, Mr. Watson said. 
 As communities run out of places to dispose of their garbage, recycling is long past being just a feel-good gesture.
 ''We are no longer just tree-huggers,'' said Dominick D'Altilio, the president of the Association of New Jersey Recyclers. ''Recycling is a very important part of solid waste management.''
 Lawmakers on Jan. 13 enacted a tax to support recycling for the first time since a previous version expired in 1996. The tax -- $3 a ton to be levied on disposers of solid waste -- could generate as much as $34 million a year for atrophied county and municipal recycling programs beginning in April, and could result in a flurry of education, advertising and enforcement in coming months. 
 Another law signed the same day mandates the recycling of the 600,000 televisions and 2.4 million computers and monitors discarded each year in the state, beginning in 2009. It also forces manufacturers to establish and pay for state-approved recycling programs, a model that could later be applied to goods like cell phones and compact fluorescent light bulbs, said Senator Smith, who sponsored both bills.
 IN a separate measure, the state is updating its Solid Waste Management Plan and asking counties to oversee the revision of 566 municipal recycling ordinances. Residents could see changes in their local programs within six months, Mr. D'Altilio said. 
 In some cases, towns will add to the list of items that have to be recycled, like mixed paper and corrugated cardboard. In others, they will increase curbside enforcement, require recycling containers in parks and transportation hubs, and encourage schools, businesses and landlords to improve recycling rates, he said.
 By state law, each municipality must require residents to recycle leaves and three other materials -- usually newspaper, cans and bottles. Counties may add other materials to the list, like plastics, mixed paper and corrugated cardboard. But it is up to towns how they recycle what they collect. Some collect their own recycling, some contract with the county or private haulers. Some require residents to bring their materials to a drop-off center. A few towns use RecycleBank, a Philadelphia-based program that collects cans, bottles, plastics, newspaper and mixed paper weekly in a single container and pays residents up to $400 a year in reward points depending on how much their recycling weighs.
 ''There is no one way of doing it,'' Mr. D'Altilio said. 
 Towns offset the cost of collecting recyclables by selling the material to processors who usually send it overseas, where it is turned into raw materials for other products. Mixed paper, newspaper and corrugated cardboard is now worth $70 to $90 a ton.
 Most people would agree there are benefits to recycling. Some of them even know that it reduces the burden on landfills. But most residents do not feel a direct financial connection to recycling because most towns have not tied tax rates or fees to the failure to separate garbage from recycling, said Jim Morris, who teaches a course called Understanding Recycling Economics at Rutgers University.
 ''Most of the people in the state are on an all-you-can-eat buffet system for garbage,'' he said. ''That works strongly against recycling because it provides no economic incentive to recycle.''
 From the trash collected by many municipalities, it is clear that many people do not bother.
 In Monmouth County, 47 percent of the trash picked up from residents and businesses in garbage collections contains paper, much of which could have been recycled, said Lawrence J. Zaayenga, the county's solid waste coordinator. Instead, because it is not separated, the paper makes its way to the landfill at the county's Reclamation Center in Tinton Falls.
 At the center, where Ms. Keseday's trash ends up, Mr. Zaayenga pointed out plastic bottles and corrugated cardboard mixed into the huge pile of trash in a holding area. Such items should have been separated by residents for recycling pickup.
 Workers used to separate out the recyclables from the regular trash, but that process stopped in 2000 because it was costing the county $3 million a year, half of the center's operating budget, Mr. Zaayenga said.
 As a result, the facility, which generates electricity from the methane gas that decomposing garbage produces, has only 8 to 10 years of landfill capacity left in its current design, although there are plans to expand the site and use other existing space.
 ''People have no idea what happens to their trash on the tail end,'' he said.
 Ms. Keseday concurred.
 ''That is what I worry about: Where does all this garbage go?'' she said. ''It's scary.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WASTE TIGHTENING: Trash bundled at the Monmouth County Reclamation Center, above, awaits deposit in the landfill there, left. Lawrence J. Zaayenga is the county's solid waste coordinator. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. NJ6)
 DELIVERY: Paper and cardboard are among the recyclables collected at the Monmouth County Reclamation Center in Tinton Falls. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. NJ1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANDFILLS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (87%); SOLID WASTE REGULATION (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (65%); BUDGETS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



386 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: The Population of America's Prisons

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Prison Nation'' (editorial, March 10):
 The United States prison population is out of control. Minimalist efforts such as alternatives to incarceration and parole reform may be politically palatable, but they will have no significant effect. 
 The real magnitude of this issue can best be grasped through comparison with incarceration rates in Western Europe. The United States incarceration rate is five times that of Britain or Spain. If we reduced our prison population in half, then in half again, and finally in half again, we would have fewer than 300,000 men, women and children in our prisons and jails, rather than 2.3 million, yet our incarceration rate would still be greater than that of Germany and France. 
 The only way to meaningfully reduce our prison population is to decriminalize drug use and provide drug substitution and treatment to those in need. A national program of harm reduction is the only way to reverse what you have aptly described as a ''Prison Nation.''
 Robert L. Cohen New York, March 11, 2008
 The writer, a former medical director of the Montefiore Rikers Island Health Services, was appointed by the federal courts in Michigan, Connecticut and New York to monitor the medical care of prisoners.
 To the Editor: 
 Nobody can argue with the fact that ''recycled prisoners'' make up the bulk of those behind bars in this country. In fact, the Justice Department consistently forecasts that two-thirds of the 650,000 prisoners released every year wind up right back in the criminal justice system.
 Initiatives that permanently end this cycle can reduce the spiraling prison population without divisive legislative battles over sentencing. Study after study has shown that work-based re-entry programs keep newly released prisoners from recommitting crimes, which in turn improves public safety and saves taxpayers the heavy cost of prosecution and incarceration.
 The Doe Fund operates a successful, work-based program here in New York and has had astounding results: only 4.8 percent of our program graduates are re-arrested a year after their release, compared with 44 percent nationally. And what's more, our program is about half the cost of incarceration.
 George T. McDonald President, The Doe Fund New York, March 10, 2008
 To the Editor:
 As your editorial says, this country's high incarceration rates ''point to a terrible waste of money and lives.'' Even worse, men and women in detention are subjected to devastating sexual abuse at the hands of corrections officials and other inmates. 
 Last December, the Bureau of Justice Statistics established the pervasive nature of this type of violence with a national inmate survey. It found that 4.5 percent of the people held in federal and state prisons reported being sexually assaulted in the previous 12 months alone. 
 That figure confirms what Stop Prisoner Rape has learned from the more than 900 letters we have received from prisoner rape survivors in the past few years: sexual abuse derails justice and shatters the dignity of its victims, in contravention of domestic law and international human rights standards.
 Lovisa Stannow Los Angeles, March 10, 2008
 The writer is executive director of Stop Prisoner Rape.
 To the Editor: 
 When it comes to criminal sentencing reform, distinguishing merely between violent and nonviolent crime is not sufficient. A better distinction, albeit old-fashioned, is between predatory and nonpredatory crime -- that is, between conduct that violates the rights of others and conduct that doesn't.
 Embezzlers, for example, deserve incarceration; most drug offenders deserve our scorn, but not the exorbitantly expensive hospitality of taxpayers. 
 Richard M. Evans Northampton, Mass., March 10, 2008
 To the Editor:
 America's burgeoning prison population can be traced directly back to the ''war on drugs.'' The economic impact of the drug war is also staggering.
 Yet illegal drugs are readily available across America. Indeed, the drug war appears to act as nothing more than a price support for the criminals who profit off the drug trade. Worse, the drug war fuels violent crime, just as Prohibition did. 
 Sam Ehrlichman Ithaca, N.Y., March 10, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The often ignored toll from placing so many nonviolent people behind bars is the disastrous effects on their loved ones on the outside. 
 If there are 1.6 million people in our prisons, there are millions more who are left behind without any services to provide for the difficulty of navigating society when a family member is incarcerated. They are the innocent victims of crime, and they pay for the stigma of having someone in jail. 
 Often young children are left behind as a parent visits his or her partner many hours away, or they are brought along to sit in waiting rooms. This presents a huge emotional and financial burden, because often it means a parent or guardian has to leave work or pay for day care. It also means there is great potential for creating an entire underclass that continues the cycle from one generation to the next. 
 It is time for society to look at the total effects of unnecessary incarceration. 
 Doug Kreeger Rye, N.Y., March 10, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL STOLLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (96%); PAROLE (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (86%); SEX OFFENSES (86%); SENTENCING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (78%); EX OFFENDERS SERVICES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WRITERS (73%); STATISTICS (71%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); APPOINTMENTS (68%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (77%); FRANCE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



387 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; TRAVERSE CITY JOURNAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: A Tour for the Times, Seeking Deals Among The Repossessed

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

DATELINE: TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. 

 BODY:
Most of the houses on the real estate tour in and around this quaint resort town on Lake Michigan were in fairly good condition, empty and scrubbed clean of the sort of things that might bring to mind the previous owners.
 The two-bedroom on Pine Grove Avenue was a charming cottage, maybe a starter house for a young couple, but who knew? The ranch on Sugar Bush Road was pristine down to its finished basement, which might have been an office, or a home gym. 
 There was no telling, but lots of quiet guessing by the 15 people who paid $5 each to board a packed minibus for three hours last weekend with a real estate agent. Every house had its back story, and none of them were going to be particularly pleasant. 
 This was not a parade of show homes, but rather the Repo Buyers Bus Tour, one in a series of such marketing excursions popping up across the country. Every house on the tour had one thing in common: foreclosure. 
 The agent, Sherry White, cheerful with a binder of the listings in hand, dwelled on the potential for rebirth in the homes -- not the ''carcass feeding,'' as one competitor characterized the appeal of the expedition. Ms. White's tone was matter-of-fact. Banks owned the properties, she emphasized as the bus took off, ''so you're not kicking anyone out of their home.''
 People on the tour also had one thing in common: they were looking for deals among the repossessed. Still, not everyone was entirely comfortable with the cold mission of cashing-in on their neighbors' misery (and it was cold because the electricity had been turned off in most of the homes and the heat was at a minimum). 
 ''This feels like walking in a graveyard,'' said George Foster, a local newspaper publisher looking for investment property. ''I felt uncomfortable even coming on this tour for that reason. There's a lot of pain in these houses and how they became available.''
 Ms. White said she had so many repossessed properties in her listings that it was just efficient to rent a bus and show them as a group. She thought up a theme: ''Getting the grass green again.'' The homes ranged in price from the $70,000s to the $300,000s, and most appeared to be primary residences, not second homes.
 Though she had not written up any offers from the tour, she said she was encouraged by the level of interest. 
 ''It's sink or swim in this area,'' Ms. White said of the troubled real estate market. ''I decided to build a ship.''
 One participant, Sandy Piotrowski, said the tour was about being pragmatic. ''It's pretty sad that there are so many houses on the market, but it's also a good thing to move these homes,'' Ms. Piotrowski said.
 In Michigan, the unemployment rate has been higher than the national average since September 2000. With job loss has come home loss, only compounded by crisis in the subprime mortgage market. Census officials estimate that Michigan lost 30,500 people in the year starting July 2006, one of only two states (along with Rhode Island) to lose population in that time.
 Nevada, California and Florida lead the nation in foreclosure rates. Michigan ranks sixth, with one foreclosure for every 409 households and for its 10,957 filings in February (up 17.84 percent from February 2007), according to RealtyTrac Inc., which manages a nationwide database of real estate information.
 An older couple on the tour here were hoping to find a deal on a retirement house. A young couple were looking for their first home. Others were looking just to be looking, and the chatter was about work and family and the weather.
 But every once in a while, emotions buried just beneath the surface cracked through.
 That was the case with the house on Greenbrier Lane. While most of the houses were silent about their pasts, this one seemed to scream its history.
 In the foyer, a trampled-over card read ''Happy 1st Birthday!'' and the walls still showed a child's scrawls in blue crayon. Hair pins and SweeTarts were on the floor in a bedroom. The kitchen was filthy, the bathroom unbearable, the garage door broken off. 
 The home, a 30-year-old, 1,400-square-foot bilevel, was listed at $100,000, about $35,000 less than its asking price in the spring of 2006. This was its second repossession (from different owners) in two years. Some wondered if it had been trashed deliberately.
 As he walked through shaking his head, Richard Deskovitz, a retired teacher, asked, ''Can you imagine the rage in someone's mind when they lose their home?'' He took a moment to think about it.
 Others took shots at dark humor. ''Those are the colors you paint the walls when you think the bank's taking over,'' one person said. There were giggles about the bright yellows and greens. 
 But others seemed moved by whatever lingered in the cold, dark air. Back on the warm bus, Patty Fitzgerald, an attendee who was looking for a retirement home, said of the house on Greenbrier Lane: ''I don't like to see that. I couldn't live in that house. It's not like somebody died there, but somebody's heart died there.''
 This was the second Repo Tour for Ms. Fitzgerald and her husband, Steve, a retired stockbroker. ''You know when you see the kids' things, the little swing sets in the backyard, remnants of a few broken toys on the carpeting, somebody's family took a dive,'' Ms. Fitzgerald said. ''Somebody had a real hard time. That's not a fun thing.''
 The Fitzgeralds were hoping to see a house whose insides did not display lingering signs of pain. 
 But even from the outside, Joe Steffes, the tour bus driver, has a hard time looking. He grew up in this area, has lived here for decades. He knows people on these streets. 
 ''Just tough times,'' Mr. Steffes said, sitting in the idling bus outside one house. ''I try not to think about it.'' 
 Then it was off to the next address.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A home on the Repo Buyers Bus Tour near Traverse City, Mich., which shows properties in foreclosure
 Bill Ayers and Michelle Baker, above, took the Repo Buyers Bus Tour looking for their first home. Sherry White, left, a real estate agent, said that with so many repossessed houses in her listings, it was efficient to rent a bus and show them as a group. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GARY L. HOWE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REPOSSESSION (90%); FORECLOSURE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRAVERSE CITY, MI, USA (91%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); LAKE MICHIGAN (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



388 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; CHEERING SECTION; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: The Ultimate Fan Fantasy: Owning a Piece of the Rock

BYLINE: By STEVE HOFSTETTER. 
Steve Hofstetter is a nationally touring comedian and proud former part owner of the Cleveland Indians.

 BODY:
I've always wanted to own a baseball team. Ten years ago, I even purchased one share of the Cleveland Indians for $16. It was either buy the stock or buy a commemorative cup of soda.
 But fans, even those who own a novelty share of stock, do not control their teams. If we did, Isiah Thomas would be collecting unemployment, Yankee Stadium bleachers would still serve beer, and the Dodgers would have never left Flatbush.
 Instead, Thomas received a contract extension, Bleacher Creatures have to start slurring before the game, and the only rivalry the Dodgers inspire is between fans who leave in the sixth inning and fans who leave in the seventh. 
 Enter Joe Scura, the mind behind Project Franchise, a group with a mission to buy a sports team and let the fans vote on every decision. 
 Yes, every decision. Next time Fox wants to advertise its hilarious new cop-and-dog buddy flick behind home plate, it may have to poll the fans.
 ''Something like this has been a long time coming, but the Internet has finally made it feasible,'' Scura said. ''Fans are more than just piggy banks/hot dog receptacles.''
 For $5, fans can buy a vote and act as the collective general manager, deciding on everything from personnel to team colors. That could have helped the Tampa Bay Devil Rays when they decided that pastels belonged in a logo. The Rays have since rebranded in dark green and dropped the devil from their name. Word has it the devil himself no longer wanted to be associated with the team.
 This isn't merely some ''leave Britney alone'' Internet lark. The leadership of Project Franchise consists of lawyers, Web gurus and business school graduates who probably have more sports skill than, say, a shipbuilder. 
 Although the group has some allegiance toward its base in Miami, it is not considering the Dolphins, the Heat, the Marlins or the Panthers. The members are, after all, in the market for a professional sports team. The closest thing Miami has to a professional team is the Hurricanes, and not only because 13 of them were suspended for brawling.
 ''Any fan could have done a better job than the Dolphin front office,'' Scura said before expanding his grief. ''Every generation has their own Isiah Thomas or Matt Millen.''
 Scura's Isiah Thomas is Randy Mueller. My Isiah Thomas is Isiah Thomas.
 The collective general manager would not technically own the team, as public offering laws would make that prohibitively expensive. But fans would be the deciders. And to borrow another term from President Bush, that is virtuably incomprehensifying.
 The main difference between fans and owners is that fans care more about the bottom of the ninth than the bottom line. Occasionally, a fan is rich enough to become an owner, but the N.B.A. fines him until he quiets down.
 Some owners know they can sell tickets regardless of whom they sign. The reason the Chicago Cubs routinely disappoint fans is because they would still sell out even if it had been decades since they won anything. Wait a minute. ... 
 Owners who are in it only to turn a profit (I'm looking at you, Carl Pohlad) can ruin the game. But so can some fans. (I'm looking at you, Steve Bartman.) Fans touched off the Pistons-Pacers brawl, and fans attacked an opposing coach and an umpire in two incidents in Chicago. I would love to run a team, because then any fan who left the seats would be immediately punished -- perhaps with a public flogging, or a trade to the Timberwolves.
 And fans are not immune to front-office mistakes, either. Most Mets fans were excited when they signed Bobby Bonilla. The team would have been better off spending that money on a bag of magic beans. At least the beans would not have struck out 100 times in a season.
 What if fans made the calls? No one would ever be reprimanded for failing to shave sideburns. Players would sign autographs for hours at every game, lest they be traded because ''the bum didn't sign a ball for my kid.'' Most important, no one at the game could complain. 
 That could cut into attendance a bit because some fans go to games only to complain. If fans went to games solely to enjoy the experience, no one would ever watch the Detroit Lions.
 The Green Bay Packers would be celebrating Brett Favre's unretirement. 
 Steroids would be legal in San Francisco. The Baseball Hall of Fame would unveil its new Pete Rose Wing, just outside of Cooperstown (in Cincinnati). I don't know how things would be different in Kansas City, because it has been a while since sports fans lived there.
 But Project Franchise will probably have to settle for a minor, development, arena or junior league team. Unless this idea becomes bigger than Britney (which these days is pretty big), Project Franchise does not have a realistic chance of buying a major club.
 So maybe it will buy the Dolphins after all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); BRANDING (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND INDIANS (84%); TAMPA BAY DEVIL RAYS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



389 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 5034 words

HEADLINE: When Girls Will Be Boys

BYLINE: By ALISSA QUART. 
Alissa Quart is the author, of ''Branded'' and ''Hothouse Kids: The Dilemma of the Gifted Child.'' She is at work on a book about America's subcultures.

 BODY:
It was late on a rainy fall day, and a college freshman named Rey was showing me the new tattoo on his arm. It commemorated his 500-mile hike through Europe the previous summer, which happened also to be, he said, the last time he was happy. We sat together for a while in his room talking, his tattoo of a piece with his spiky brown hair, oversize tribal earrings and very baggy jeans. He showed me a photo of himself and his girlfriend kissing, pointed out his small drum kit, a bass guitar that lay next to his rumpled clothes and towels and empty bottles of green tea, one full of dried flowers, and the ink self-portraits and drawings of nudes that he had tacked to the walls. Thick jasmine incense competed with his cigarette smoke. He changed the music on his laptop with the melancholy, slightly startled air of a college boy on his own for the first time.
 Rey's story, though, had some unusual dimensions. The elite college he began attending last year in New York City, with its academically competitive. fresh-faced students, happened to be a women's school, Barnard. That's because when Rey first entered the freshman class, he was a woman. 
 Rey, who asked that neither his last name nor his given name be used to protect his and his family's privacy, grew up in Chappaqua, the affluent Westchester suburb that is home to the Clintons, and had a relatively ordinary, middle-class Jewish childhood. Rey, as he now calls himself, loved his younger brother, his parents were together and he was a good student, excelling in English and history. But he always had the distinct feeling that he wasn't the sex he was supposed to be. As a kid, he was often mistaken for a boy, which was ''mostly cool,'' Rey said. ''When I was 5, I told my parents not to correct people when strangers thought I was a boy. I was never a girl, really -- I questioned my own gender, and other people also questioned my gender for me.'' When Rey entered puberty, he felt the loss of the ''tomboy'' sobriquet acutely. 
 ''My body changed in freshman year of high school, and it made me depressed,'' Rey said. That year, he started to wonder whether he was really meant to become a woman. His friends in high school were almost all skater boys and musicians, and he related to them as if he were one of them. He began to define himself as ''omnisexual,'' although he was mostly attracted to women. 
 The idea that he might actually want to transition from female to male began to take shape for Rey when he was 14 or 15; he can't quite remember when exactly. ''A transmale speaker guy'' gave a talk at a meeting of his high school's Gay Straight Alliance, and Rey was inspired. Then he took a typical step for someone going to high school in the first years of this century. He went home and typed ''transgender'' into Google. 
 At the end of his freshman year in high school, he met Melissa, a student at Smith College who was back in Westchester for summer break and later became his girlfriend. During one of their days together, Melissa, who was immersed in campus gender activism, mentioned the concept of being a ''transman'' and spoke of her transmale friends. Rey confided his questions about his gender identity to her, and she encouraged him to explore them further. For most of high school, Rey spent hours online reading about transgendered people and their lives. ''The Internet is the best thing for trans people,'' he said. ''Living in the suburbs, online groups were an access point.'' He also started reading memoirs of transgendered people. He asked Melissa to explain the gender theory she was learning in college.
 In his senior year, he took on the name Rey. At 17, he finally felt ready to come out as trans to his family, who according to Rey struggled to understand his new identity. Around that time, he also visited a clinic in Manhattan, hoping to start hormone therapy. He was told that unless he wanted his parents involved in the process, he'd have to wait until he was 18. In the meantime, Rey began to apply to colleges. He wanted to go to ''a hippie school,'' as he put it, yet he felt pressure to choose a school like Barnard that hewed to an Ivy League profile. Though he decided on Barnard, he still planned to start on testosterone as soon as he turned 18. When I asked him why he wanted to start hormone therapy so soon, he replied simply, ''You live your life and you feel like a boy.'' Of course, living life like a boy is not what an elite women's college has historically been about.
 At 18, Rey is part of a growing population of transgender students at the nation's colleges and universities. While still a rarity, young women who become men in college, also known as transmen or transmales, have grown in number over the last 10 years. According to Brett-Genny Janiczek Beemyn, director of the Stonewall Center at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, who has studied trans students on college campuses, adults who wished to transition historically did so in middle age. Today a larger percentage of transitions occur in adolescence or young adulthood. The National Center for Transgender Equality estimates that between a quarter of a percent and 1 percent of the U.S. population is transgender -- up to three million Americans -- though other estimates are lower and precise figures are difficult to come by. Still, the growing number of young people who transition when they are teenagers or very young adults has placed a new pressure on colleges, especially women's colleges, to accommodate them. 
 The number of young people who openly identify as transgendered has grown for a few reasons. Some parents of young children who are ''gender nonconforming'' -- usually children who identify psychologically with the opposite sex but also children who have hermaphroditic traits, like indeterminate sex organs -- now allow their kids to choose whether they are referred to as ''he'' or ''she'' and whether to wear boys' or girls' clothing. And some of these parents, under a doctor's supervision, have even begun to administer hormone blockers to prevent the arrival of secondary sex characteristics until a ''gender variant'' child is old enough to make permanent choices. The Internet also offers greater access to information about transmale and gender-variant identities. 
 In addition, 147 colleges and universities nationwide now include ''gender identity and expression'' in their nondiscrimination policies, and students will often use gender-neutral pronouns like ''ze'' and ''hir'' -- especially if they post on campus message boards. At Wesleyan last year, students initiated a survey of bathrooms, checking to see if they were transgender-friendly -- open to all sexes. Many colleges now have Transgender Days of Remembrance in memory of victims of gender-identity-related hate crimes. Students at the University of Vermont hold a yearly ''Translating Identity Conference'' for trans college students that draws hundreds of people from around the country. The increasing number of trans college students has even given rise to a surprisingly deft reality television show, ''Transgeneration,'' on the Sundance Channel, which featured a transmale student at Smith College. 
 The conventional thinking is that trans people feel they are ''born in the wrong body.'' But today many students who identify as trans are seeking not simply to change their sex but to create an identity outside or between established genders -- they may refuse to use any gender pronouns whatsoever or take a gender-neutral name but never modify their bodies chemically or surgically. These students are also considered part of the trans community, though they are known as either gender nonconforming or genderqueer rather than transmen or transmale. 
 At many of America's first-tier women's colleges, the growth of the trans community has led to campus workshops on transgender identity. According to students at Smith, a good number of restrooms have been made over as ''gender neutral.'' And some professors make sure to ask students to fill out slips indicating their preferred names and pronouns. Students at several women's colleges have also created trans groups to reflect their experiences and political views. According to one transmale student I talked to at Wellesley, there are at least 15 gender-nonconforming students at the college, ranging from full-on trans to genderqueer, who have formed their own group. Other women's colleges, like Smith, have in the last few years had on-campus gender-nonconforming groups with up to 30 members, more than 1 percent of that school's population. 
 Which doesn't mean it isn't sometimes a struggle to be trans or gender-nonconforming on campus. Many trans students feel themselves to be excluded or isolated at women's schools and at coed colleges. Some talk of being razzed or insulted by fellow students. And even within a college's gender-nonconforming population, students are often divided among those who define themselves as men but don't transition medically, those who do and those who prefer not to define themselves as either male or female.
 These difficulties are a natural part of being a minority that is still fighting for acceptance. But trans students' problems can also be institutional. The presence of trans students at women's colleges can't help raising the question of whether -- or to what degree -- these colleges can serve students who no longer see themselves as women.
 From his first week at Barnard, Rey told me, he felt he was struggling. The women on campus seemed to Rey to be socially conservative and archly feminine, and he felt he had to seek solace elsewhere. At the Callen-Lorde Community Health Center in downtown Manhattan -- the medical facility for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people that he visited while he was still in high school -- he began to get biweekly testosterone ''T'' shots (he turned 18 in September). Rey had psychological counseling elsewhere first; typically a letter of referral from a mental-health professional is required before anyone between 18 and 24 can receive hormone therapy. Rey also began to bind his breasts. But binding hurt, he said; it made it hard for him to breathe. He especially hated ''having to alter your body every morning so you can go through the world and people will accept you.''
 But as a transmale student in a sea of women at Barnard, he felt alone. He longed to be with his girlfriend, Melissa, and with transmale friends, some of whom, like Rey, were attending women's colleges. Even as he sought to adopt a more conventionally male appearance, he wanted to maintain his ties with his former self. ''I am all for not rubbing out my past as female,'' he told me.
 But it was not to be that simple. As a transmale college student, he was something of a pioneer. And he began to hit some walls.
 In the first week of September, he found out that his roommates had complained to the college's freshman housing director about being asked to share their rooms with a man. They wanted Rey to find somewhere else to live. According to Dorothy Denburg, the dean who spoke to Rey about the situation, these young women were disturbed when Rey told them on the first day ''that he was a transboy and wanted to be referred to by male pronouns.'' Rey's roommates had, after all, chosen to attend a women's college in order to live and be educated in the company of other women. Barnard doesn't have singles for freshmen. As Rey saw it, he was simply shut out by his two roommates -- and by the rest of the school. A week after learning of his roommates' disapproval, Rey, together with the dean and his parents, decided that Rey should transfer to Columbia's School of General Studies. 
 Rey felt lost. He slept on people's couches and stayed with one friend, a Columbia student and fellow trans activist, for a week. The story of his rooming travails ultimately wound up on the gossip pages of The New York Post. The Post squib cast Rey as an infiltrator in one of the last girls-with-pearls bastions. 
 ''They were very typical feminine girls,'' explained Rey. ''I didn't fit in. It's why I didn't hang out with straight girls for most of high school -- I hung out with queer women. Around the Barnard women, I felt extremely other.''
 Rey described the days that followed as ''the worst semester ever.'' As his new hormone regime began to take effect, he started to go through male puberty, which meant increased bone mass and a deepening voice and facial hair. He struggled to lead the normal life of an arty college student: eating vegan, going to clubs, keeping his grades up. Only recently, Rey says, has his life has brightened. Indeed the transformation from the person he was to who he has become is startling. The second time we met, on a street corner near Columbia in Upper Manhattan, was a cold but sunny day in January, and Rey was aglow, smiling and laughing. Accompanied by his girlfriend, Melissa, now a graceful college senior, he greeted me with a hug. 
 The reason for this cheer, he said, was that he finally felt on the way to becoming who he really is. The testosterone shots he had received every other week since October had lowered his voice a few octaves. He was in the process of legally changing his name to a male name, although he couldn't decide whether to go casual (Rey) or Old Testament (Asher). And in December Rey underwent what he called ''chest reconstruction surgery,'' also known as ''top surgery,'' which he paid for out of pocket.
 Melissa helped Rey through it, feeding him antibiotics and massaging his postsurgery chest with arnica cream. He joined a campus trans organization, GendeRevolution. In a few short months, he had become a full-blown activist. He quit smoking. To cap it off, he was bar-mitzvahed in Israel in January. He'd had his bat mitzvah at 13, but as Rey put it, he didn't feel ''connected to the experience.'' He was bar-mitzvahed without his parents in attendance, but he took the rite of passage to heart. After all, at 13 he'd become a woman. Now, at 18, he was a man.
 Despite the seriousness of the issues Rey has dealt with, all in such a short time, he often seemed like a giddy teenager, probably because he still was one. Clad in his usual uniform of baggy pants and a B-Boy cap covered with images of euros, he gossiped about his friends, music, sex and food, from time to time throwing his arm around Melissa, who is pixielike, slim and Rey's height -- a little over five feet. She was wearing skinny jeans and ballet flats. She was so supportive of Rey's transformation that she was taken aback when I asked if his period of postoperative recovery had been hard for her.
 ''He's so much happier now,'' she said. Even though Melissa always defined herself as a lesbian, she said her partner's transition made sense to her. Part of the couple's sangfroid is generational -- she and Rey see themselves as genderqueer rather than gay. For them, sexual orientation is fluid. Like some of their peers, Melissa and Rey want to be -- and sometimes imagine they already are -- part of the first generation to transcend gender. 
 On the face of it, it's not surprising that students like Rey would choose to attend a women's college. Same-sex colleges have always been test beds for transformations among American women. Set up as places where women could flourish without men, colleges like Barnard, Wellesley, Smith and Mount Holyoke have always had dual personalities, serving both as finishing schools and as incubators of American feminism. Smith College's alumnae include not only Barbara Bush and Nancy Reagan but also Betty Friedan, Gloria Steinem and Catharine MacKinnon. 
 The schools that decided to remain single-sex in the 1970s, when many colleges around the country went coed, represented a significant and even controversial challenge to liberal ideas about gender equality. And in refashioning their identities for the time, many became loci for the interrogation of gender roles. It was, after all, at all-female schools that many young women first began to question the very notion of femininity. And this questioning found echoes in the curriculum. Scholars like Esther Newton, Gayle Rubin, Anne Fausto-Sterling and Judith Butler ushered in an era that reconceived gender as a social construct, distinct from both a person's sex and sexuality. For Butler and others, femaleness did not automatically produce femininity and maleness did not produce masculinity: gender was fluid and variable, something to be fashioned, and could shift in character depending on the culture or the time period. As some see it, the presence of trans students at single-sex colleges is simply a logical extension of this intellectual tradition. 
 Indeed, as one transmale student I spoke to at Wellesley pointed out, women's colleges are uniquely suited to transgender students. ''There's no safer place for transmen to be than a women's college because there's no actual physical threat to us,'' he told me, adding, ''I have more in common with women because of that shared experience than I do with men.'' And even though Rey chose to leave Barnard for a coed school, he also says that women's schools can -- and should -- act as havens for transmale students, that they are, in fact, natural beacons for trans people, because ''feminists and trans activists are both interested in gender.'' 
 In a sense, transgender and genderqueer students could be said merely to be holding women's colleges to their word: to fully support women's exploration of gender, even if that exploration ends with students no longer being female-identified. As Judith Halberstam, a professor of English and gender studies at the University of Southern California and the author of ''Female Masculinity,'' put it, feminist theory offers students a way to think about gender as performance, to create a trans self or a genderqueer one -- and give that self contours, definition -- in a way that was simply unavailable 30 years ago. Indeed, Rey discovered his own trans identity reading queer theory, and even transitioning to be a man hasn't changed his core sense of himself. ''I'm still queer even though I am a man now -- it's the beauty of the term,'' Rey said. 
 ''I think gender is a spectrum -- gender is more complicated than sex,'' Rey continued. He sees everyone, and not just transmen, as having ''their own gender,'' just as they might have their own personality or temperament. Rey's point isn't merely academic. A good number of gender nonconforming students I spoke to at women's colleges agreed with him. Most did not have operations but rather defined gender simply by how they experienced it, seeing themselves as existing on a ''gender continuum'' with their more conventionally feminine college friends. I met with one such student, Jordan Akerley, a 22-year-old senior at Wellesley. As we sat in the student-run on-campus cafe where Akerley works, Akerely explained what it is like to live out a theory of identity that doesn't exactly conform to one gender or the other.
 ''I find pronouns cumbersome and self-limiting,'' Akerley told me, which is why friends use the name Jordan, a name that Akerley says she intends to make official this year. Akerley, a co-captain of the school's soccer team, takes no hormones and has no plans to have an operation. Akerley's look and entire manner is quite unremarkable, even conservative: hair combed in a modified Tin Tin do, sporty, plain cotton shirt, jeans and sneakers. The only sign of an ''alternative'' or outsider identity -- other than appearing masculine enough to be frequently mistaken on campus for a female student's boyfriend -- is Akerley's eyebrow ring. Akerley's affect could be that of an aspiring politician: amiable, physically attractive, clean cut, inoffensive and articulate. 
 ''My identity is fluid; it may evolve and fluctuate,'' Akerley explained. ''My preference is not to use gender pronouns. My work is not always grammatically correct because of the lack of pronouns.'' 
 Though women's colleges may seem a haven for trans or gender-nonconforming students, accommodating such students requires balancing a complex set of needs and expectations -- inside and outside the college. Barnard, like many women's colleges, has an admissions policy of accepting only ''legal'' women. The college's president, Judith Shapiro, who wrote an article on transsexualism in the 1980s, is clearly sympathetic to the trans population in general, but when I spoke to her she wondered aloud why a transmale or male-identified student ''would want to be in a woman's college.'' She went on to explain her position this way: ''Having been very involved in second-wave feminism, I am interested in gender revolutionaries, but I still think gender is a major category in our society.'' In many ways, Shapiro could be said to represent the position women's colleges now find themselves in: caught between wanting to embrace a campus minority that their own interrogation of gender roles has helped to shape and defending the value of institutions centered on the distinct experience of being female. 
 Colleges must also navigate the attitudes and expectations of their alumnae. While some alumnae have readily accepted the presence of trans students on their campuses, others, like Suzanne Corriell and Regis Ahern, graduates of Mount Holyoke, see it as a betrayal of the foundational principles of their alma mater. Corriell and Ahern recently wrote an angry letter to The Mount Holyoke Alumnae Quarterly, charging that admitting transmale students was, in effect, a way of ''passively going coed'' and that the ''lifestyle choices'' of these students was a bald negation of a women's college charter. Trans students, they wrote, were simply ''men seeking to take advantage of Mount Holyoke's liberal and accepting atmosphere.'' 
 When I called Corriell, who is 28, at the law library at the University of Richmond, where she works, she explained her feelings to me this way: ''I am a strong believer in women's education, and I think the colleges are a dying breed that need protection. I respect their agenda, which is educating women.'' She paused, then said: ''Educating trans students in a same-sex residential community produces difficulty -- when a student no longer identifies as a woman, the privilege to attend these schools is lost. Men have lots of schools they can go to -- why must transmen go to women's schools?''
 Of course, many trans students identify first as women -- as lesbians or feminist activists. They are attracted to women's schools precisely because of their reputation as safe harbors for exploring these identities. As a result, many transmale students apply to women's schools and attend them before they have fully come out as ''gender nonconforming'' -- and this is likely to be the case for years to come. 
 Denburg, the Barnard dean, acknowledges that women's colleges have always been places ''where women can explore definitions and dimensions of gender.'' But it is only in the last five years of her tenure as dean, she says, that she has encountered transmale students. She had, she said, no objection to Rey's attending Barnard. The school has helped other gender-nonconforming students, among them a resident adviser in his senior year, who had to inform his female dorm mates about his gender transition over the summer. Denburg described her work with these students ''as an educational journey for me as well, that has helped me to better understand the drive of someone who feels they are in the wrong body.''
 That said, Barnard does not have the kind of groups for trans students or awareness campaigns and gender-neutral bathrooms that some of the other women's colleges do. And it has not been as affiliated with women's and gender activism as some of its sister schools. Rey's case, as Denburg put it, ''caught us off guard,'' mostly because administrators had never encountered a student who wanted to transition physically at such a young age. To Denburg, 18 still seems very young for such a decision.
 Many people would agree that going on hormones carries risks: there are few studies on the long-term effects of hormone therapies on transmen. Some transmen in their 20s and 30s have told me they worry about the hormones' potential side effects -- an increase in ''bad'' cholesterol and the risk of heart disease and stroke. For transmen, finding appropriate health care is complicated by the fact that student health services typically need to refer such students to outside clinics or hospitals for their care -- and transmen may need additional insurance or be required to bear at least some of the medical costs themselves. 
 Rey always expected to go off-campus for his transition. He wound up being operated on by a private surgeon in New York City. (He received no ''bottom surgery,'' as it is known -- few transmen do, in part because the operation is thought to be too rudimentary and in part because many transmen view it as unnecessary.) While many gender-nonconforming students don't have ''top surgery'' in their freshman years, they may still struggle with their colleges' medical services, not because they want specialized treatments but because they want health care that is sensitive to their new identities. As one gender-noncomforming student complained to me, he hated that health services insisted on treating him ''like a girl.''
 Colleges, trans activists and advocates say, are even less prepared for advising students on how their gender-variant identities may affect their futures, including their professional lives. After all, many states don't have protection for gender-nonconforming people in the workplace, and ''gender identity'' was recently dropped from the 2007 Employment Non-Discrimination Act, or ENDA. ''There's no professional development for trans kids at colleges,'' said Shannon Sennott, a founder of Translate, a Brooklyn-based nonprofit group that holds workshops on trans awareness at women's colleges. ''The majority disappear into big cities, working as bartenders with advanced degrees because there's real prejudice against trans workers.'' Hadley Smith, a recent Wellesley graduate and a Translate founder who describes himself as gender-nonconforming, said that unemployment or limited employment is par for the course for many transgendered people, but those limits may seem starker when high-achieving graduates from educationally competitive schools like Smith College feel, out of fear of discriminating employers, that they have to abandon, at least temporarily, their professional aspirations. 
 Some transmale students ultimately go ''stealth'' after graduation, not mentioning their earlier lives as women. When I asked Rey how he hoped to handle it, he said he had no intention of hiding and was planning to be out as a transman for the rest of his life. With all the bravado of youth, he said: ''I won't get a career that I can't be out and trans in. I'm not planning to go into business.
 ''I've learned not to try to see my future -- to do the best I can in the space I am in,'' he continued, and then added shyly, ''I would like to, you know, make public art.''
 On a winter afternoon, I visited Rey at his new workplace at Columbia University's Office of Multicultural Affairs, where he was organizing a series of trans awareness events on campus. Rey was being paid by the college to create the series, and at the moment he had two chores on his list: booking a transmale photographer as a speaker and creating signage for gender-neutral bathrooms. To achieve the latter, Rey was busy sketching possible new symbols. Melissa, his girlfriend, was helping him. First they turned the familiar female stick figure into a rocket ship, making her legs into a flame. Rey created a few variations of the sign with a ballpoint pen. Then he drew a confused-looking person standing in front of both a male and a female bathroom, not knowing which one to pick. Next, he tried a single circle with the male and female symbols attached to it. Melissa laughed mockingly at the drawing of the confused man, but she nodded her head in approval at the two other symbols.
 The dynamic between the two is often like this -- teasingly supportive. Earlier at lunch, Melissa joked about whether they were even in a relationship, ''I'm not sure: Rey doesn't do labels.'' Then she told Rey, ''I've saved 20 voice mails of your voice changing over the last four months.'' He looked at her adoringly as they ate French fries in sync: Melissa was not only his girlfriend but also the historian of his identity.
 ''Before I was on hormones, people would get confused when I spoke over the phone -- they thought I was male, and then they'd start asking questions about how old I was,'' Rey said. ''I didn't want to stay a prepubescent boy.'' 
 When talk turned to the couple's plans for the future, Melissa was more concerned about Rey leaving ''wet towels on the floor,'' she said, and ''tracking mud in the house'' than about his medical transition. His lack of housekeeping skills was particularly on her mind, since the two are planning to move in together over the summer. ''We'll stay together,'' Melissa said. ''That's unless you go gay . . . again.'' She laughed. She was talking about the possibility of Rey's coming out a second time -- going from being a woman who loves women to a man who loves women to a man who loves men. The remark was meant lightly, but nonetheless it got to the heart of the radical gender leaps both she and Rey were making in their everyday lives. 
 Then Rey grew more serious.
 ''Some transmen want to be seen as men -- they want to be accepted as born men,'' he said. ''I want to be accepted as a transman -- my brain is not gendered. There's this crazy gender binary that's built into all of life, that there are just two genders that are acceptable. I don't want to have to fit into that.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rey in his apartment near Columbia University
 Jordan Akerley, a senior at Wellesley College, eschews pronouns. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GARETH MCCONNELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); MUSIC (75%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); HISTORY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



390 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Newer Immigrants Taking Over Diners

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

DATELINE: FAIRVIEW 

 BODY:
 THE suburban diner business -- once as dependably Greek as feta or moussaka -- is increasingly making room for immigrants from other countries, even other continents. 
 Six months ago, David Kim, a 58-year-old immigrant from Seoul, South Korea, took over the Park View Diner in this blue-collar town on a ridge overlooking the Hudson River. He bought it from a Greek immigrant who owned it for 25 years. 
 Across the river, Gulam Rabbani Khan, a 48-year-old Bangladeshi immigrant, is in his eighth year as owner of the Broadway Diner, in Yonkers near the Bronx border. He bought it in 2000 from a Greek immigrant who owned it for 22 years. 
 Both places have classic touches of American diner architecture: enlarged railroad-car shapes, stainless steel streamlining, and counters with a noirish atmosphere suggesting that Mickey Spillane could walk in at any moment with a gat packed at his side and order a cup of java. But they are owned by men from countries halfway across the world.
 At the Park View, Mr. Kim has kept the short-order cooks and the encyclopedic menu and has tried -- through his accented English and the panache of touches like an occasional sky-blue corduroy jacket -- to play the genial host. So far, he said, the business seems to be making money, though about half as much as he said the previous owner had promised.
 ''Food is my life,'' Mr. Kim said. ''When I see customers enjoy my food I feel good, and they come back and there's better communication.''
 His route into the diner business did not follow the classical Greek path, but there are parallels. With his wife and two small boys, he came to California 24 years ago, at a time when South Korea's economy was depressed, and worked as a porter. After moving to New York he sold cars and saved up enough to lease a small deli in Newark. For nine years, it was a moneymaker, but he wanted a restaurant whose land he could buy so he might establish some equity. His dream is to one day own a bigger, more profitable diner, one that will allow him to take more time off.
 ''Since I was coming to America, I'm always working, working,'' he said. ''I never relax in my place. If I have a bigger business, I can relax myself.''
 Mr. Khan, a Bangladeshi immigrant who sometimes favors the kind of striped dark jackets and bright shirts and ties reminiscent of those that the Damon Runyon characters wore in ''Guys and Dolls,'' said that not only could he whip up the same Western omelets as his Greek predecessors but he could also reproduce the same sense of bonhomie with his customers.
 ''I schmooze,'' he insisted. ''I know them by their first name. I ask about their families and we talk about current events, the elections. You have to enjoy what you do; I enjoy the restaurant business.''
 Mr. Khan, who graduated from a Bangladesh college as an accounting major, came to New York in 1981 and opened a sidewalk fruit stand. Within a year he was operating 10 of them, he said. He left that business to work as an assistant manager at the former Beanstalk restaurant in Rockefeller Center, learning about purchasing foods and getting to meet celebrities like Howard Stern and Don Imus. He also graduated from the Culinary Institute of America. He bought his first restaurant in Merrick, on Long Island, and, with a partner, later bought diners at Kennedy Airport and in the Baychester area of the Bronx. He sold both of those to buy the Broadway. 
 He has updated the menus and upgraded the food, he said, but he has kept some of the multilingual staff, including a Greek chef who has worked in the diner for 25 years. His businesses have done so well that he can afford a summer house in the Catskills for hunting and fly-fishing.
 ''No matter who you are, you can succeed as long as you give good service and cleanliness and quality is No. 1,'' he said.
 Like many hard-working immigrants, he follows his children's progress in school closely. Tanzir, 17, wants to be a doctor. Imran, 16, wants to be an engineer. His two daughters, Yeasmin, 13, and Sofia, 8, want to be teachers. None wants to own a diner. In other words, his family's story seems destined to follow the Greek odyssey toward and then away from diners.
 ''I may have to sell it,'' he said.
 Mr. Kim has the good fortune to have relatives willing to work in the business. His wife, Jinsoon, is the cashier, and his son Andrew, now 30, manages the diner at night and may one day succeed his father.
 Customers at the two diners do not seem overly concerned that their favorite lunch spots are no longer owned by Greeks. Robert Jacobs, 61, of Edgewater, a semi-retired sweater manufacturer, was snuggled in a booth in the Park View, reading and eating as he sometimes does in the afternoon.
 ''Nothing changed except the paperwork,'' he said. ''If they keep the service and keep the good food, what's the difference if it's owned by Greeks or Koreans?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ON THE JOB: David Kim, above, owner of the Park View Diner, right, in Fairview, N.J., says, ''Food is my life.'' A South Korea immigrant who previously owned a deli, Mr. Kim bought the diner last year from its longtime proprietor, a Greek immigrant. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GEORGE M. GUTIERREZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. LI8)
 PART OF A TREND: Gulam Rabbani Khan, right, a Bangladeshi immigrant, owns the Broadway Diner, far right, in Yonkers. He bought the business eight years ago from a Greek immigrant who owned it for 22 years. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GEORGE M. GUTIERREZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. LI8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); RESTAURANTS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (57%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



391 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; CROWN HEIGHTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: Trickle-Down Economics In the Dairy Section

BYLINE: By JOSEPH HUFF-HANNON

 BODY:
FOR a tutorial on the complex set of factors driving up the price of a quart of milk, a good person to talk to is Modesto Baez, a Dominican who is the proprietor of the Quisqueya Super Market at Franklin Avenue and Eastern Parkway in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. 
 The offerings at Mr. Baez's bodega, in a heavily West Indian neighborhood, include plantain chips, dried beans and Mexican soft drinks. These days, the proprietor is also dispensing street-corner economic analysis. 
 ''Now they're using more corn for ethanol,'' said Mr. Baez, a tall and gregarious fellow, in between dispensing lottery tickets to a steady flow of customers trying their luck at Take 5 and Mega Millions. ''When the corn is more expensive, it's more expensive to feed the cows. More expensive cows, more expensive milk. And ice cream.''
 Mr. Baez is right. The price of corn is high because of rising global demand for food and because of a new government mandate to increase production of ethanol, a motor fuel made from corn. With the stockpile of corn diminished, less is available to feed cows, a situation that in turn makes it more costly to raise cows and hence increases the price of milk. 
 Such explanations are of little comfort to shoppers in Crown Heights, where one-fourth of residents have annual incomes at or below the official poverty level, which is $21,200 for a household of four. 
 Sonya Castro, a medical assistant who was shopping with her 7-year-old daughter, Kimberly, paused to listen to Mr. Baez's analysis, then chimed in with her own thoughts. 
 ''What can I say?'' Ms. Castro said. ''What I used to buy with $20, now it costs $30. I leave with fewer bags and spend more money.''
 Milk is near the top of the list of staples -- others are bread and eggs -- whose prices have climbed by 25 percent or more since inflation began to soar in July.
 Across the street at Fisher's Supermarket, where on a recent Sunday a gallon of Tuscan whole milk went for $3.99, up from $3.29 last summer, customers were also complaining. 
 Jeffrey Lewis, a maintenance worker at several nearby apartment buildings, knows little about global economics, but he has his own suspicions to why prices were climbing.
 ''How could prices go up so quick, so fast?'' Mr. Lewis asked as he hovered near the supermarket's dairy section. ''Last year a quart was 99 cents. Now it's $1.49. To tell you the truth, this supermarket has affordable prices. But around here, a lot of store owners charge more because they can get away with it.''
 Regardless of local fluctuations in prices, according to Tony Fisher, whose family owns the market, most shoppers seem resigned to paying more.
 ''You can't eat cereal without milk,'' Mr. Fisher said. ''So people don't have a choice.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''More expensive cows, more expensive milk,'' says Modesto Baez. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIEN JOURDES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); MILK (89%); FOOD PRICES (78%); ICE CREAM (78%); ALCOHOLS (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); POOR POPULATION (75%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); ETHANOL (70%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (65%); SOFT DRINKS (56%); LOTTERIES (55%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



392 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: The Cash Advantage (Even When Rates Are Low)

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
 ALTHOUGH short-term interest rates have been dropping, many advisers still recommend that investors hold plenty of cash -- and that they keep it in safe and simple accounts. ''The biggest mistake people make is reaching for yield and putting their capital at risk,'' said David Darst, the chief investment strategist of the global wealth management group of Morgan Stanley. ''They should think of cash as their safe harbor.''
 Over the last year, Mr. Darst has raised his recommended allocation to cash several times. Morgan Stanley now advises individual investors to hold 16 percent of their portfolios in cash, up from 5 percent a year ago.
 And Mr. Darst said that cash really means cash -- with nothing fancy about it. He suggests putting this money into some combination of money market mutual funds, short-term certificates of deposit or Treasury bills. 
 Investment advisers do not have to look far for cautionary tales of so-called cash-like investments. They can point to the continuing crisis in the market for auction-rate securities -- which were sold to many investors as being like cash but are now largely illiquid, as a result of auctions in which there has been virtually no bidding.
 And experts say the troubles do not stop there. For example, some ultrashort bond funds have lost more principal than many investors understood was possible when they bought shares in them, said Gary Schatsky, a fee-only financial planner in New York.
 Like Mr. Darst, Mr. Schatsky recommends putting cash into either money market mutual funds or short-term C.D.'s with maturities of three to six months. As for other types of investments that the financial industry might market as being like cash, he said, ''if the interest rates are too high, then it's probably too good to be true.''
 Investment experts say money market funds held in brokerage accounts tend to be the most convenient path to putting aside money that you plan to reinvest once you judge that it is safe to get back in the water, while C.D.'s and the money market accounts that are held at banks may be appropriate for cash you plan to keep on hand for a while.
 Mr. Schatsky advises shopping around for a money market fund from a large, well-known company that charges low annual fees. He likes the Vanguard Prime Money Market fund, which has an annual expense ratio of 0.24 percent and a current yield of 3.35 percent. It has an initial minimum investment of $3,000.
 Money market mutual funds are not backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which will reimburse losses up to $100,000 in the money market deposit accounts that are offered by banks, as well as bank C.D.'s and checking and savings accounts. (Savers who have socked away more than $100,000 in cash can spread their money among several banks to obtain F.D.I.C. insurance for all of it. More information is at www.fdic.gov/consumers/consumer/information/fdiciorn.html.)
 But Mr. Schatsky said investors should not worry about the safety of their money market mutual funds, so long as they have bought them from large, reputable financial companies, some of which have stepped in recently to support their money market funds so that share prices do not fall below $1, which is known as ''breaking the buck.'' 
 ''If they allowed their money market fund to break a buck, that would destroy their entire company,'' Mr. Schatsky said. ''And they are not going to let one product destroy their whole business.''
 But investors who worry about the lack of F.D.I.C. insurance for money market funds may prefer to keep their cash in more traditional bank accounts, although these generally have lower yields.
 Just because investors go to a bank, however, doesn't mean that they are necessarily buying a traditional money market deposit account. Many large commercial banks also sell money market mutual funds that are not F.D.I.C.-insured, so it never hurts to ask. 
 Investors who want to lock in higher yields can buy short-term C.D.'s, which generally have higher yields than money market funds and offer the peace of mind of F.D.I.C. insurance
 Mr. Schatsky says some banks occasionally offer interest rates on very short C.D.'s -- typically for six months or less -- that may be much higher than current money market rates. ''These are clearly teaser rates,'' he said, ''so you have to be prepared to move your money around'' after the C.D.'s expire. 
 But he added that investors who were holding significant amounts of cash might find this effort worthwhile.
 Many investment advisers, however, are not recommending tying up money in C.D.'s with maturities of much longer than six months, because the yield curve is now relatively flat, meaning that long-term rates are not much higher than short-term ones. Although short-term rates are falling, they say that long-term rates might rise.
 ''Someone who thinks they're shrewd about locking in a three-year C.D. might regret it 12 months from now,'' Mr. Schatsky said.
 One certainty in these trying markets is that cash has suddenly gained stature with investors, said Jeff Tjornehoj, a senior research analyst at Lipper. Ever since the market turbulence began in earnest last summer, investors have been piling into money market funds.
 Net inflows of more than $110 billion poured into money market funds in January, the latest month for which figures are available. compared with a net outflow of $5 billion in the same month a year earlier, according to Lipper. Mr. Tjornehoj said that at least some of that money seemed to be coming out of diversified equity funds. 
 ''I think these flows are indicative of fear,'' he said. ''I cannot find another reason why people would be taking money out of their core holdings.''
 Jim McDonald, the chairman of the advisory committee for the taxable money market funds at T. Rowe Price, said he expected the Federal Reserve to trim its benchmark federal funds rate to as low as 2 percent this year, from 3 percent now, with a rate cut very likely this week.
 ''If we are in a recession or skirting a recession,'' Mr. McDonald said, ''the Fed is going to want to lower real or inflation-adjusted interest rates to zero.'' 
 That would drive down the yields on money market funds, which tend to reflect lower interest rates about a month or so after the Fed cuts rates.
 The T. Rowe Price Prime Reserve fund has an annual expense ratio of 0.57 percent and is yielding 2.96 percent. It has a minimum initial investment of $2,500. 
 When shopping for a money market fund, Mr. McDonald said investors should emphasize security, with yield as a secondary consideration. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (89%); BONDS (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (76%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (73%); BOND FUNDS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (68%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (60%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



393 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2934 words

HEADLINE: Argentine Nights

BYLINE: By DENNY LEE

 BODY:
THE tango dancers took their places inside a cramped apartment in downtown Buenos Aires, as David Lampson, a 29-year-old television writer from Boston, wiped his brow. Despite the 100-degree weather, the fans had been shut off, spotlights switched on and windows blacked out with trash bags. The cameraman waited until the smoke machine blurred the parquet floor before yelling ''Action!'' Then just as the iTunes track reached its dramatic crescendo, the fuse blew. For the fourth time. 
 ''Let's unplug the other fan and try again,'' Mr. Lampson told the polyglot cast and crew, which included a Greek mother, a Colombian architect and an Argentine shoemaker. Also present was a New York City film student, who was editing the footage for YouTube distribution. Mr. Lampson likened the process to creating art from garbage. ''There is a tango dance based on this idea,'' he added, ''called cambalache.'' 
 A better term might be bohemians-in-exile. A new kind of tango is taking shape along the crooked back streets of Buenos Aires. At a former furniture factory on Calle Honduras, the British music engineer Tom Rixton, who has worked with top acts like Depeche Mode, runs a stylish boutique hotel called Home with his Argentine wife. Nearby on Calle Garruchaga, Amanda Knauer, a fashion designer from Manhattan, sells a chic line of leather handbags at Qara. And at Zizek, a weekly dance party run by an expat from San Antonio, the cha-ch-ch-cha rhythms of cumbia folk music quivers to an electronic beat.
 ''There are expats everywhere tapping into the city's thriving cultural and arts scene,'' said Grant C. Dull, Zizek's founder, who also runs the popular bilingual Web guide WhatsUpBuenosAires.com. ''And it's not backpacker types, but people with money and contacts.'' 
 Drawn by the city's cheap prices and Paris-like elegance, legions of foreign artists are colonizing Buenos Aires and transforming this sprawling metropolis into a throbbing hothouse of cool. Musicians, designers, artists, writers and filmmakers are sinking their teeth into the city's transcontinental mix of Latin elan and European polish, and are helping shake the Argentine capital out of its cultural malaise after a humbling economic crisis earlier this decade. 
 Video directors are scouting tango ballrooms for English-speaking actors. Wine-soaked gallery openings and behemoth gay discos are keeping the city's insomniacs up till sunrise. And artists from the United States, England, Italy and beyond are snapping up town houses in scruffy neighborhoods and giving the areas Anglo-ized names like Palermo SoHo and Palermo Hollywood. 
 Comparisons with other bohemian capitals are almost unavoidable. ''It's like Prague in the 1990s,'' said Mr. Lampson, who is perhaps best known for winning a Bravo TV reality show, ''Situation: Comedy,'' in 2005, about sitcom writers. Despite his minor celebrity, he decided to forgo the Los Angeles rat race and moved to Buenos Aires, where he is writing an NBC pilot, along with his Web novela, www.historyandtheuniverse.com. ''Buenos Aires is a more interesting place to live than Los Angeles, and it's much, much cheaper. You can't believe a city this nice is so cheap.''
 That wasn't always the case. For much of the 20th century, Buenos Aires ranked among the world's most expensive capitals, on par with Paris and New York. Broad boulevards were lined with splendid specimens of French belle epoque architecture that evoked the Champs-Elysees, and tree-lined streets were buzzing with late-night cafes and oak-and-brass bars. Locals, it is often said, identify more as European than South American. 
 Then came the financial crisis of late 2001. The Argentine peso, which was once pegged to the United States dollar, plunged to a low of nearly 4 to 1 in the face of mounting debt and runaway inflation. (It holds steadily today at about 3 to 1.) Overnight, Buenos Aires went from being among the priciest cities to one of the world's great bargain spots. 
 There was a silver lining. Even as local artists flocked overseas, producing a kind of creative brain drain from Buenos Aires, foreigners arrived in record numbers. And what they discovered was that this fast-paced city of three million offered more than just tango and cheap steaks. The Argentine capital also had balmy weather, hedonistic night life and a cosmopolitan air that thrives on novelty. 
 Situated at the wide mouth of the Rio de la Plata, Buenos Aires sprawls across the flat landscape with the force of a concrete hurricane. It takes more than an hour to traverse opposite ends by yellow-and-black taxi. And that's not mentioning the 48 barrios that creep inland, each with a distinct personality and crisscrossed by a web of cobblestone alleys and 12-lane mega-streets. There are business districts like Microcentro, leafy barrios like Recoleta and manufacturing sectors like La Paterna. 
 And nearly everywhere you turn these days, the new arrivals seem to be planting their flags, whether at a so-called chorizo house in historic San Telmo or a glassy condo in Puerto Madero. Or, for that matter, a former door factory on Calle Aguirre, which Sebastiano Mauri, 35, a painter and video artist from Milan, recently bought with several artists on the industrial outskirts of Palermo. 
 ''Some are now calling this area Palermo Brooklyn,'' said Mr. Mauri during a recent visit of his renovated factory, a bright yellow building on an otherwise gray street. Cost for the entire four-story factory? $130,000. ''Buenos Aires makes Milan look like a neighborhood. It's lively, multiethnic and you have Europeans from all over.'' 
 After gutting the third floor, Mr. Mauri spent the past year converting it into an artist-in-residence studio with hardwood floors, stainless-steel kitchen cabinets and midcentury-modern furniture. To celebrate the near-completion, he held a rooftop barbecue on a breezy Saturday in January that drew a cross section of Buenos Aires's art elite.
 Drinking malbec out of plastic cups and eating steaks with dollops of ratatouille, the crowd of about 20 artists, curators and collectors chatted easily about the hyper-commercialized state of art, a towering sex hotel (known as a telo) nearby and the city's obsession with ice cream. ''Artists come here because they can be free,'' said Florencia Braga Menendez, whose namesake contemporary art gallery is arguably the city's most influential. ''As a gallerist, I never tell my artists what sells. They must create for themselves.'' 
 That creative freedom has fueled plenty of cultural cross-pollination. Dick Verdult, an avant-garde musician and artist from the Netherlands, began toying with cumbia around 2000, manipulating the childish rhythms of the South American folk music with electronic bass lines, time delays and sampled voices. ''Cumbia is like a ball of clay,'' said Mr. Verdult, 53, who is better known by his stage name, Dick El Demasiado. ''If you stick to the simple laws'' -- a 4/4 rhythm that he likens to a galloping horse -- ''but disregard the tradition, you can do a lot with it. Argentina has a very elastic culture.''
 His first cumbia album, ''No Nos Dejamos Afeitar,'' released in 2002, was so well received that Mr. Verdult decided to move to Buenos Aires. ''The reaction blew me away,'' said Mr. Verdult, who is regarded as the unofficial godfather of this new electrotango sound known as experimental cumbia. 
 Not surprisingly, many of his disciples are fellow expatriates. ''There's a group of maybe 10 producers and D.J.'s who are really pushing these new styles,'' said Gavin Burnett, 26, a D.J. from San Francisco who blends cumbia with hip-hop and Jamaican dancehall under the pseudonym Oro11. ''If you're an artist looking to be inspired and have $10,000 saved up, you can basically come down here and work, and not worry for a year.''
 It's not only artist types who are soaking up Buenos Aires's budget bohemia. Stumble into many of the city's trendy restaurants, bars and hotels, and there's a good chance a foreigner is behind it. 
 One of the newest is Le Bar, a martini lounge and restaurant in Microcentro with sunken seats, cool lighting and a rooftop terrace. It was started by several French expatriates including Manuel Schmidt, 40, an architect from Paris who sailed to Argentina with his wife and young daughter three years ago, and basically didn't sail back. Brasserie Petanque, a new restaurant in San Telmo, looks as though it was transplanted tile by tile from the Left Bank. ''When I came in 2003, there were no French restaurants, so I stayed and opened this,'' said Pascal Meyer, an owner who was tending bar on a recent Sunday night. Before becoming a restaurateur in Buenos Aires, he was a culinary tour guide for the United Nations in New York City. 
 AND then there are the novelists, journalists and screenwriters, quietly tapping away in their $600-a-month apartments, seeking to make a name for themselves on Argentine soil. Nate Martin, a 24-year-old from Wyoming, moved to the city in November and took a job as an editor at The Buenos Aires Herald, an English-language newspaper, because, he says, ''I didn't want to be a waiter while writing.'' For his creative outlet, Mr. Martin maintains a blog, Grating Space. Like dozens of similar blogs written by foreigners, it rhapsodizes about the Argentine good life. He also D.J.'s on the side. 
 ''We play stuff that they've never heard of,'' said his friend, Tom Masterson, a 35-year-old transplant from Chicago, during a night out at Bahrein, a stylish sweatbox in Microcentro where the headlining D.J. hailed from Belgium. ''They love me here.'' 
 Some literary efforts are starting to bear fruit. The writer Marina Palmer quit her advertising job in New York City, moved to Buenos Aires and, in 2005, published a ''Sex in the City''-like memoir set in the city's vampish tango scene. ''Kiss and Tango'' has been optioned by Hollywood, with Sandra Bullock recently floated as a possible lead. (The film that has everyone buzzing these days is Francis Ford Coppola's ''Tetro,'' a drama about Italian immigrants in Argentina that is being filmed in the city.) 
 But moviemaking is hardly restricted to foreigners. Argentina has a storied film history -- notable examples include the 1968 political documentary ''The Hour of the Furnaces'' and the post-junta feature, ''Official Story,'' which won the Academy Award for best foreign-language film in 1986 -- and, in recent years, a so-called New Argentine Cinema has emerged, thanks to a new crop of directors like Daniel Burman and Lucrecia Martel who are winning prizes in Berlin, Toronto and other film festivals. They have set up shop along the fringes of fashionable Palermo, in an area now known as Palermo Hollywood. 
 As with other creative fields, the cinematic revival got some unexpected help from the financial crisis. Not only did the industry benefit from the influx of foreigners looking for cheap production costs, but the peso meltdown also provided grist for creative self-examination. ''People were no longer talking about pretty dresses or soap operas,'' said Tomi Streiff, a filmmaker who moved to Buenos Aires from New York City with his partner and fellow screenwriter, Jane Hallisey. The couple is now working on a romantic comedy about a priest. ''Everybody was hurt, so their skin was open.'' 
 The wellspring of creativity is starting to leech out of Buenos Aires and onto the larger cultural stage. Local fashion designers, who flourished when European imports tripled in price, are making inroads into the global marketplace. Tramando, a high-end fashion store in Recoleta started by Martin Churba, now has boutiques in Tokyo and the meatpacking district in New York. And Maria Cher, a London-trained designer who has an airy boutique in Palermo SoHo, exports her glamorous dresses throughout South America, as well as to Tokyo. 
 Experimental cumbia music is reverberating beyond the city's packed dance floors. Mr. Burnett, the D.J., just started his own cumbia record label, Bersa Discos, and is playing shows in his native San Francisco. Zizek, the weekly dance party, is taking its urban tropical beats throughout the United States, with stops this month in Los Angeles, New York, Chicago and at the South by Southwest music festival in Austin. 
 Buenos Aires's buzzing art scene, meanwhile, is being touted as the next big thing. Or that's the hope, anyway, of the city's eager artists and wide-eyed gallerists. ''This city reminds me a lot of Berlin,'' said Elisa Freudenreich, 27, a gallery manger who recently moved from Berlin and sees parallels in the profusion of street artists and graffiti-splattered spaces. ''The scene is very fresh, very underground.''
 Scruffy galleries have gone up along the city's edges, most notably Appetite, an irreverent, punk-inflected gallery in San Telmo started by Daniela Luna, a feisty 30-year-old known for her shrewd eye and cool parties. On a steamy Thursday afternoon, as office workers were climbing aboard buses back home, Ms. Luna was flitting through her grungy gallery in a brown miniskirt and sparkly pink T-shirt, like a teenager in a vintage clothing store.
 ''My first gallery was so messy that when people came to my parties, they didn't know if the stuff was art or trash,'' Ms. Luna said, as she showed off works by Santiago Iturralde, a local artist who paints portraits of narcissistic young men based on their Facebook-like Web profiles. ''We're growing fast and furious.'' So fast, in fact, that she is exporting her cheeky blend of trash art to the real Brooklyn, where she just opened a small gallery. 
 Her gallery will get additional exposure in Milan when the contemporary art fair, MiArt 2008, spotlights emerging Buenos Aires artists in April. Adriana Forconi, a jet-settling consultant to the art fair, was in town recently to scout for worthy galleries, and was struck by what she calls the city's ''frenetic and blissfully chaotic'' pace. 
 ''There's definitely something happening here,'' said Ms. Forconi, who was among the guests at the artist-filled rooftop barbecue. Dressed in a flouncy party dress and strappy sandals, she looked ready for another long night on the town. ''There's a clash between European and Latin American cultures that's fascinating.''
 ''And unlike Milan, there are no rules,'' Ms. Forconi added, as she looked out at the twinkling city and took a sip of wine. For a moment, she sounded like someone toying with a move to Buenos Aires. ''You can do whatever you want here.'' 
 FROM PALERMO HOLLYWOOD TO PALERMO BROOKLYN
 GETTING THERE
 American Airlines and Aero Lineas Argentinas fly direct from Kennedy Airport to Buenos Aires, starting at $762 for travel in April, according to a recent online search. The 20-mile taxi ride to the city costs about 100 pesos, about $31 at 3.2 pesos to the dollar. Buses and subways are fast and inexpensive. Taxis are plentiful and cost 10 to 15 pesos for a typical trip. 
 WHERE TO STAY
 Unless you're packing a business suit, consider the neighborhoody barrios of Palermo Viejo or Recoleta. 
 Home Hotel Buenos Aires (Honduras 5860; 54-11-4778-1008; www.homebuenosaires.com), opened by the British music producer Tom Rixton and his Argentine wife, Patricia O'Shea, is a boutique hotel on a quiet block in Palermo Viejo. The 17-room hotel features midcentury-modern furniture, a pool and a restaurant. Rates start at $120. 
 Designed by Philippe Starck, the Faena Hotel + Universe (Martha Salotti 445; 54-11-4010-9000; www.faenahotelanduniverse.com) offers over-the-top elegance in Puerto Madero, a planned waterfront district. The spacious hotel, which occupies an old grain silo, has everything from a cabaret stage to a hammam, with 110 rooms starting at $425. 
 There are plenty of great hotels for under $100, like the Art Hotel (Azcuenaga 1268; 54-11-4821-4744; www.arthotel.com.ar). For longer stays, apartment rentals offer even better deals. Two reputable agencies include For Rent Argentina (www.4rentargentina.com) and ApartmentsBA (www.apartmentsba.com). I paid $125 a night for a modern two-bedroom apartment in Palermo Soho that slept three comfortably, and included a large terrace and pool. WHERE TO EAT 
 Olsen in Palermo Viego (Gorriti 5870; 54-11-4776-7677) serves a chic blend of Scandinavian and Argentine cuisine in a modern space seemingly plucked out of Copenhagen. Dinner for two with wine, about 250 pesos, or $78 at 3.2 pesos to the dollar. 
 Le Bar in Microcentro (Tucuman 422; 54-11-5219-0858) evokes a space age bordello, with red-velvet sunken seats, a rooftop lounge and a global tapas menu. Dinner for two, 200 pesos. 
 Brasserie Petanque (Defensa 596; 54-11-4342-7930; www.brasseriepetanque.com) brings Parisian comfort food to San Telmo. Dinner for two with wine, 200 pesos. 
 WHERE TO GO OUT
 Zizek is held on Wednesdays from midnight at the Niceto Club in Palermo (Niceto Vega 5510; 54-11-4779-9396; www.whatsupbuenosaires.com/zizek). 
 Bahrein (Lavalle 345; www.bahreinba.com), in a century-old downtown building, has a popular Tuesday drum-and-bass party. 
 Kim y Novak (Godoy Cruz y Guemes; 54-11-4773-7521; www.kimynovak.blogspot.com), a drag-queen-friendly bar in Palermo. 
 WEB SITES
 What's Up Buenos Aires (www.whatsupbuenosaires.com) is a bilingual guide to the city's arts, music and cultural offerings. 
 bue (www.bue.gov.ar), the city's official tourism site, has event listings, useful tips and directories. 
 TangoSpam (www.tangospam.typepad.com) is among dozens of blogs written by expatriates. Links to other blogs can be found on it. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: David Lampson, from Boston, and Maria Faccioti, of Argentina, tango at Salon Canning.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LALO DE ALMEIDA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg TR1)
(pg. TR8)
LEFT: Le Bar was started by French expatriates. BELOW Daniela Luna at her gallery, Appetite.
 BELOW In the Palermo SoHo neighborhood. BOTTOM The Home Hotel in Palermo Hollywood, started by a Briton.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LALO DE ALMEIDA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. TR9) MAP Map details area of Buenos Aires. (pg. TR8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCERS (89%); MULTILINGUALISM (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); MUSIC (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); DANCE (89%); FILM (88%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (78%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); FASHION & APPAREL (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%); FASHION DESIGN (65%); FASHION DESIGNERS (65%); FURNITURE MFG (51%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (79%); ENGLAND (75%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%); ITALY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



394 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: BROWNSTONERS

BYLINE: By CLAIRE DEDERER. 
CLAIRE DEDERER IS A CONTRIBUTOR TO THE ARTS & LEISURE SECTION OF THE TIMES.

 BODY:
THE FUTURE OF LOVE 
 By Shirley Abbott. 
 307 pp. Algonquin Books of Chapel Hill. $23.95. 
 Like most readers, I know too much about New York. I live on a mountaintop in Colorado, and yet I know that on the streets of Manhattan Maclaren baby strollers are becoming passe. How do I know this? Because New York pours into my house through newspapers, magazines and novels. That overexposure puts heavy demands on the author of the Manhattan novel. So many people know so much about New York life that each detail must be spot-on, note-perfect. Which is to say, I wish Shirley Abbott hadn't set her wise, funny, generous first novel, ''The Future of Love,'' in New York. 
 Abbott, author of the celebrated memoir ''The Bookmaker's Daughter,'' has assembled a multigenerational cast. Mark Adler has lost his job and found adulterous love with his child's preschool teacher. His wife, Maggie, works as a book editor and worries about food additives. Maggie's mom, Antonia, a former radical, is having an affair with Sam, a publishing executive. Sam's wife, Edith, cloisters herself at the couple's country estate, sexless as a nun. They're all caught short by the events of Sept. 11, 2001. Although everyone continues much as before, their major weaknesses have suddenly been exposed. 
 Both before and after 9/11, Abbott's people pursue love and goodness in equal measure. They can't seem to decide if the moral imperative is more crucial than the pleasure principle, or the other way around. They're deeply, amusingly ethical about small things, especially when it comes to food: ''With her, it was a moral imperative to be lactose intolerant,'' observes Sam. Antonia, meanwhile, is baffled by the younger generation's obsession with organic produce and environmental cleanliness, ''this determination not to dirty up the world or be dirtied up by it.''
 Antonia is by far the most interesting character. The perspective of this aging, widowed lefty is deeply idiosyncratic, whether she's discovering AARP sex with Sam or marveling at what she calls her ''strange green conservative'' of a daughter. Antonia is real and fresh, believably surprising. 
 But when Abbott abandons Antonia's perspective the novel is less convincing. Abbott's younger people talk and think like old people -- or like the younger people of a bygone era. The book opens with Mark sitting on a park bench admiring his 4-year-old daughter: ''His little Toni was a picture in a dotted-Swiss sundress.'' Dotted Swiss is a muslinlike fabric that was popular in the middle of the 20th century. It has been resurrected in the current fad for retro-chic children's clothes, but it's far from a common term, and I find it hard to believe that Toni's 40-year-old father would know what it's called. When I asked my husband, who's roughly the same vintage, he thought dotted Swiss was something you'd eat for lunch.
 Meanwhile, Toni's mother, Maggie, worries about one of her authors, who's nursing a cocaine habit. '' 'Bolivian marching powder,' he called it.'' Couldn't an editor have gently explained to Abbott that no one has used this term since Jay McInerney's protagonist hoovered the stuff in ''Bright Lights, Big City,'' back in 1984?
 I'm not teasing out a few isolated instances: these false notes and anachronisms abound. Good novels discipline us to recognize character through fine points. The form Abbott has chosen -- the Manhattan comedy of manners -- demands a constant supply of ruthlessly exact detail in order to place characters socially, economically and even emotionally. Abbott gets a lot right: She elegantly weaves together her lovers' stories. She deftly pokes fun at what we call morality. She allows her characters to be both lovable and ugly. But it's the truth in the details that gets away from her.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALGONQUIN BOOKS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); CHILDREN (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); ETHICS (69%); DISMISSALS (68%); FOOD INTOLERANCES (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (65%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Future of Love, The (Book)>; Future of Love, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



395 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET CHECKING IN; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: For Foreign Investors, Profit Isn't Only Goal

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
BRIAN GOULDING recently moved with his wife, Majella, and three young children to Wilmington, N.C. ''It's gorgeous here,'' he said, referring to the region's temperate climate.
 But Mr. Goulding also has a strong interest in the colder environs of northern Vermont and, specifically, the success of a new hotel at the Jay Peak ski resort, five miles from the Canadian border. If the hotel, expected to open next fall, succeeds, Mr. Goulding and his family, who are from Ireland, will be allowed to remain in the United States. 
 The Gouldings are among the beneficiaries of a program that grants foreigners legal residency in the United States if they invest in job-creating businesses. ''If, in two years, the project has delivered the employment to the state of Vermont,'' Mr. Goulding said, he will receive a permanent green card. ''If the project collapses,'' he said, ''I won't.'' 
 But Bill Stenger, the president and chief operating officer of Jay Peak, doesn't see much danger of the project failing. At a time when bank loans are becoming harder to get, Mr. Stenger said he had received the money he needs to construct the hotel -- $17.5 million -- from 35 investors, all of whom are hoping to become permanent residents of the United States. 
 Under the program, known as EB-5, a foreigner receives a green card for investing $500,000 in a business in a rural or high-unemployment area. With currency exchange rates what they are -- the dollar has fallen sharply against the euro and British pound -- the required investment ''is very affordable to many foreigners,'' Mr. Stenger said.
 To tap into that source of capital, Mr. Stenger formed an alliance with Rapid USA Visas, which has offices in Naples, Fla., and in London. The company's clients are looking to make their homes in the United States -- in many cases, as retirees in the Sun Belt. (Under the law creating the EB-5 visas, they need never set foot in the state where the money is invested.) 
 ''It's win-win-win,'' said Steve Yale-Loehr, an EB-5 expert who teaches immigration law at Cornell University: the business gets capital, residents get jobs and the investor gets a green card. 
 The program hasn't always been a hit. In the 1990s, what was then the Immigration and Naturalization Service had a hard time keeping tabs on whether EB-5 investments were creating jobs. ''There were fears that the program wasn't achieving its intended purpose,'' Mr. Yale-Loehr said. But the agency, renamed Citizenship and Immigration Services, has since found a way to streamline the process by permitting entities outside the federal government, called regional centers, to screen investors and monitor job creation. 
 As a result, Mr. Yale-Loehr said, ''the EB-5 program has risen from the ashes.'' Of the 10,000 EB-5 visas available each year, 5,000 are set aside for investors in regional centers.
 Altogether, there are 17 regional centers, Mr. Yale-Loehr said, and about that many applications pending. Mr. Stenger said he worked with state and federal officials to win ''regional center'' designation for the entire state of Vermont. 
 Right now, Mr. Stenger said, Jay Peak has room for about 1,800 guests; the new, 78,000-square-foot hotel building is part of a plan to nearly triple that capacity. The building will contain 56 one- and two-bedroom suites and one three-bedroom penthouse, Mr. Stenger said. There will also be a day spa, a Vermont country store, several restaurants and a ski rental center in the building.
 Mr. Stenger is also planning another hotel and a water park, which will be financed by 150 EB-5 investors and which will help draw visitors year-round. 
 Jay Peak isn't the only resort to benefit from Vermont's regional center designation. At Sugarbush resort in Warren, Vt., about 60 miles south, an EB-5 program is being used to finance four new buildings. The first -- a 40,000-square-foot guest services center, containing stores, equipment rental facilities and space for children's programs -- will break ground this spring. Three condominium hotels will follow, beginning in 2009.
 EB-5 investors have to show that the money they are using was earned legally. At Jay Peak, all 35 investors passed that test, according to Mr. Stenger, who noted that, in addition to Britain, there were participants from Canada, Mexico, Scandinavia and South Africa. His company, formally called Jay Peak Ski and Summer Resort, held the investors' money in escrow until their applications were approved by the federal government, he said.
 Mr. Goulding, who is 48 and semiretired from the airplane leasing business, said he wrote his check last April and received his temporary green card six months later. He said that accounting and legal fees added about 10 percent to his $500,000 investment. He said he expects to receive a permanent green card in 2009.
 AFTER five years, the partnership may choose to sell the hotel's 57 units as condominiums, paying Mr. Goulding his share of the proceeds. Mr. Stenger noted that unlike some businesses that have no tangible assets, the Jay Peak partnership will have the 57 units and the right to sell them. (Technically, each investor will own 1/35 of each one, Mr. Stenger said.) 
 ''The Jay Peak investors appreciate that there's an exit strategy,'' said Douglas Hulme, the chief executive of Rapid USA Visas, who is based in Naples, Fla.
 Mr. Stenger said Jay Peak's EB-5 program is expected to produce 2,000 jobs in the area, which ''is very meaningful for this part of Vermont.'' Some of the 2,000 are what the government calls ''indirect jobs,'' meaning they won't be at Jay Peak itself but at businesses in the surrounding area that will benefit from expansion at the resort.
 Mr. Goulding has met with Mr. Stenger, and he said he is satisfied that Jay Peak is ''conservatively managed.'' And it was a good sign, he said, that when Jay Peak drilled for water for the new hotel, ''they hit a gusher.'' 
 When the new hotel is completed, each investor will be entitled to two weeks' accommodations a year. Mr. Goulding and his family plan to spend those weeks skiing. ''Not having a huge amount of snow in Ireland, as in none, Jay Peak provides a wonderful experience,'' he said.
 He won't be checking on the business.
 ''The beauty of an EB-5 for me,'' he said, ''is that I don't have any day-to-day responsibilities.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Jay Peak ski resort in Vermont is building a new hotel, renderings far left and below, with the help of foreigners participating in a federal program that grants legal residency in exchange for investing in certain businesses. Bill Stenger, near left, says that he has received $17.5 million from 35 foreign investors.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL O. BOISVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY RENDERINGS FROM JAY PEAK RESORTS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); JOB CREATION (88%); IMMIGRATION LAW (88%); CURRENCIES (86%); CHILDREN (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); RESORTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%); EURO (66%); EXCHANGE RATES (64%); BRITISH POUND (64%); CITIZENSHIP (50%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, NC, USA (73%); NAPLES, FL, USA (53%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) VERMONT, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



396 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 2369 words

 BODY:
FILM
 PRINCETON Princeton Public Library ''Pete Seeger: The Power of Song,'' a film about the life and career of the folk music giant. Monday at 7 p.m. Free. Princeton Public Library, 65 Witherspoon Street. (609) 924-9529; www.princetonlibrary.org. 
 SPRINGFIELD Donald B. Palmer Museum ''L'Enfant,'' a drama directed by Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne. Thursday at noon and 7 p.m. Free. Donald B. Palmer Museum, 66 Mountain Avenue. (973) 376-4930. 
 TENAFLY JCC on the Palisades ''One Night With the King,'' screening and discussion with Rabbi Reuven Kimelman. Wednesday at 8:15 p.m. Free. J.C.C. on the Palisades, 411 East Clinton Avenue. (212) 420-8080. 
 FOR CHILDREN 
 ATLANTIC HIGHLANDS First Avenue Playhouse ''Beauty and the Beast,'' presented by the Paper Moon Puppet Theater. Through March 22. $9. ''Puss in Boots,'' musical presented by the Paper Moon Puppet Theater. $9. March 29 through June 2. First Avenue Playhouse, 123 First Avenue. (732) 291-7552; www.firstavenueplayhouse.com. 
 CAPE MAY Emlen Physick Estate ''Cape May Family Treasure Hunt,'' self-guided family tours; continuing. $5. Emlen Physick Estate, 1048 Washington Street. (800) 275-4278; www.capemaymac.org. 
 MARLTON Borders Second Coming Band, country and pop/rock. March 28 at 8 p.m. Free. ''Silly Farm Animals,'' story time featuring ''Stuck in the Mud,'' ''Big Chickens Fly the Coop'' and ''Birthday for Cow.'' March 25 at 10 a.m. Free. Borders, 515 Route 73 South. (856) 985-5080. 
 RED BANK Count Basie Theater ''Go, Diego, Go Live! The Great Jaguar Rescue!'' An interactive show based on the Nick Jr. television show. Monday at 7 p.m. $20 to $40. Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street. (732) 842-9000; www.countbasietheatre.org. 
 TEANECK Becton Theater, Fairleigh Dickinson University ''Cinderella,'' musical adaptation by Kate Hawley and Gregg Coffin. Through March 16. $15 and $18. Becton Theater, Fairleigh Dickinson University, 960 River Road. (201) 569-7710. 
 TRENTON The New Jersey State Museum ''Family Arts Festival,'' a one-day art and art-making extravaganza for the family. March 30, 1 to 5 p.m. Free. The New Jersey State Museum, 225 West State Street. (609) 292-6464; www.state.nj.us/state/museum. 
 WEST ORANGE Fellowship Hall of Saint Cloud Presbyterian Church ''Big Beat, Little Beat: Explorations of Rhythm,'' an interactive children's music program with the David Braham Quartet, featuring Bob DeVos, guitarist, followed by guided dance and movement with Elisa Heinsohn. March 30 at 2:30 p.m. Admission is free with two cans of food. Fellowship Hall of St. Cloud Presbyterian Church, 20 Old Indian Road. (973) 324-9100. 
 MUSIC AND DANCE
 CLOSTER Closter Public Library Howard Tavin Trio, jazz concert dedicated to the late jazz musician Bill Evans. March 30, 3 to 4 p.m. Free. Closter Public Library, 280 High Street. (201) 768-4197; closter.bccls.org/. 
 EAST RUTHERFORD Izod Center Mary J. Blige and Jay-Z: Heart of the City Tour, hip-hop and R&B. March 28 at 7:30 p.m. $59.75 to $175.75. Izod Center, 50 Route 120. (201) 507-8900; www.meadowlands.com. 
 ENGLEWOOD Bergen Performing Arts Center Joan Baez, vocalist. March 29 at 8 p.m. $35 to $75. Bergen Performing Arts Center, 30 North Van Brunt Street. (201) 227-1030; www.bergenpac.org. 
 MADISON Madison High School ''A Classical Celebration of Spring and Romance,'' presented by the Livingston Symphony Orchestra. March 29 at 7:30 p.m. Madison High School, 170 Ridgedale Avenue. (973) 593-3117. 
 MONTCLAIR Trumpets Jazz Club and Restaurant ''A Tribute to Sarah 'Sassy' Vaughan,'' featuring Carrie Jackson and the Jazzin' All-Star Quartet. March 28 at 8:30, 10 and 11:30 p.m. $15. Trumpets Jazz Club and Restaurant, 6 Depot Square. (973) 744-2600; www.trumpetsjazz.com. 
 NEW BRUNSWICK Christ Church Episcopal ''Stations of the Passion,'' featuring the Vox Fidelis Choir conducted by Timothy Smith. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Free. Christ Church Episcopal, 5 Paterson Street. (732) 545-6262; www.christchurchnewbrunswick.org. 
 NEWARKNew Jersey Performing Arts Center ''Looking for the Heart of Saturday Night,'' cabaret performance featuring James Naughton. March 22 at 7 p.m. $48 and $68. Nnenna Freelon and Geri Allen, jazz. March 29 at 7:30 p.m. $39. New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street. (888) 466-5722; www.njpac.org. 
 PRINCETON McCarter Theatre Center The Fred Hersch Trio, jazz. March 22 at 7:30 p.m. $15 and $44. McCarter Theater Center, 91 University Place. (609) 258-2787; www.mccarter.org. 
 PRINCETON Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Princeton ''Jersey Jumpers Swing Dance,'' featuring open dancing with the swing band Eight to the Bar. Friday at 7:30 p.m. $11 and $15. Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Princeton, 50 Cherry Hill Road. (609) 924-1604. 
 TRENTON Mill Hill Playhouse ''Nimbus Dance Works,'' featuring works choreographed by Nimbus artistic director Samuel Pott and Michelle DeFremery and Jean Paul. March 22 at 8 p.m. $10 to $20. Mill Hill Playhouse, Front and Montgomery Streets. (609) 392-0766. 
 WAYNE Wayne Public Library The Carol Hamersma Jazz Trio, classical jazz. March 26 at noon. Free. Wayne Public Library, 461 Valley Road. (973) 694-4272; www.waynepubliclibrary.org. 
 OUTDOORS
 CAPE MAY Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts ''Ghosts of Cape May Trolley Tour,'' a guided tour of Cape May. Through March 22. $5 and $10. Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts, 1048 Washington Street. (609) 884-5404; www.capemaymac.org. 
 SPOKEN WORD
 HIGHLAND PARK Highland Park Public Library Poetry Night, featuring Kathleen Graber. March 25 at 7:30 p.m. Free. Highland Park Public Library, 31 North Fifth Avenue. (732) 572-2750; www.hpplnj.org/. 
 SOUTH ORANGE Baird Center ''Jazz at The Baird,'' featuring Susan Pereira and Sabor Brasil. March 29 at 8 p.m. $12 to $17. Baird Center, 5 Mead Street. (973) 378-7754; www.southorange.org/TheBairdArts. 
 TENAFLY JCC on the Palisades ''Great Zionist Thinkers,'' a lecture with Rabbi Reuven Kimelman. March 26 through April 9. Free. J.C.C. on the Palisades, 411 East Clinton Avenue. (212) 420-8080. 
 THEATER
 ATLANTIC HIGHLANDS First Avenue Playhouse ''The Gin Game,'' by D.L. Coburn. Through March 29. $15 and $20. First Avenue Playhouse, 123 First Avenue. (732) 291-7552; www.firstavenueplayhouse.com. 
 LONG BRANCH New Jersey Repertory Company ''Engaging Shaw,'' a romantic comedy by John Morogiello with excerpts from George Bernard Shaw. Through April 13. $30 to $40. New Jersey Repertory Company, 179 Broadway. (732) 229-3166; www.njrep.org. 
 MAPLEWOOD Burgdorff Cultural Center ''The Housekeeper,'' a comedy by James Prideaux, presented by the What Exit? Theater Company. Through April 13. $15 to $25. Burgdorff Cultural Center, 10 Durand Road. (973) 761-8453. 
 MILLBURNPaper Mill Playhouse ''Steel Magnolias,'' drama by Robert Harling. Through April 6. $29.25 to $88.25. Paper Mill Playhouse, 3 Brookside Drive. (973) 376-4343; www.papermill.org. 
 MONTCLAIR Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University ''Pay Up,'' an interactive performance based on the experiments of Keith Chen, a Yale economist. March 27 through 30. $15. Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University, College Avenue and Red Hawk Road. (973) 655-5112; www.peakperfs.org. 
 NEW BRUNSWICKGeorge Street Playhouse ''The Scene,'' comedy by Theresa Rebeck. Through March 23. $28 to $62. George Street Playhouse, 9 Livingston Avenue. (732) 246-7717; www.georgestplayhouse.org. 
 NEW BRUNSWICK Mason Gross Performing Arts Center, Douglass Campus, Rutgers University ''Puree,'' comedy by Demetra Kareman, presented by the Rutgers Theater Company. March 28 through April 5. $15 to $25. Mason Gross Performing Arts Center, Douglass Campus, Rutgers University, 85 George Street. (732) 932-7511; www.mgsa.rutgers.edu. 
 ORADELL Bergen County Players ''One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest,'' drama by Dale Wasserman. March 22 through April 13. $5 to $21. Bergen County Players, 298 Kinderkamack Road. (201) 261-4200; bcplayers.org. 
 PERRYVILLE Hunterdon Hills Playhouse ''Barefoot in the Park,'' comedy by Neil Simon. Through Tuesday. $53 to $61.50. Hunterdon Hills Playhouse, 88 Route 173 West. (800) 447-7313; www.hhplayhouse.com. 
 TRENTON Mill Hill Playhouse Solo Flights Festival presents Ovid's ''Metamorphoses'' adapted and performed by Todd Conner. March 16 at 3 p.m. $10 to $20. ''A Sense of Wonder,'' a solo performance about the environmental pioneer Rachel Carson, written and performed by Kaiulani Lee. Thursday through March 28. $10 to $20. ''Blood Cherries,'' written and performed by Dawn Akemi Saito. March 29 at 8 p.m. $10 to $20. ''Tales from the Beatbox,'' a hip-hop vocal percussion and monologue, performed by Yuri Lane. March 30 at 3 p.m. $10 to $20. Mill Hill Playhouse, Front and Montgomery Streets. (609) 392-0766. 
 WEST WINDSOR Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College ''Singin' in the Rain,'' musical adapted from the classic Gene Kelly film. March 28 through April 6. $10 to $16. Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College, 1200 Old Trenton Road. (609) 570-3333; www.kelseyatmccc.org. 
 MUSEUMS AND GALLERIES
 CAMDEN Camden County Historical Society ''Lullaby for Dreamland: The Dreamland Cafe in Lawnside,'' historic photographs of jazz clubs and other night life in Lawnside, the first incorporated African-American town north of the Mason-Dixon line. Through April 10. Free. Hours: Sundays noon to 5 p.m.; Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays 12:30 to 4:30 p.m. Camden County Historical Society, 1900 Park Boulevard. (856) 964-3333; www.cchsnj.com. 
 CAPE MAY Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts ''Proudly We Serve: Our African-American Military Experience, From the Civil War Forward,'' an exhibit that highlights the contributions of African-Americans in photographs and artifacts. Through April 13. $1 and $2; free with a tour: $5 and $10. Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts, 1048 Washington Street. (609) 884-5404; www.capemaymac.org. 
 CLINTON Hunterdon Museum of Art ''Cuba! Artists Experience Their Country,'' an exhibition showing the social, cultural and political aspects of Cuban life. Through March 30. Free. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hunterdon Museum of Art, 7 Lower Center Street. (908) 735-8415; www.hunterdonartmuseum.org. 
 JERSEY CITY Grassroots Arts Facility ''Introversions,'' paintings by Gordon Fraser. Through Friday. Thursdays through Saturdays, 3 to 8 p.m. Grassroots Arts Facility, 143 Christopher Columbus Drive. (610) 209-5059. 
 JERSEY CITY Liberty Science Center ''Race: Are We So Different?'' Exhibition bringing together the experience of living with race, its history as an idea and the role of science in that history. Through April 27. $11.50 and $15.75. Liberty Science Center, Liberty State Park, 222 Jersey City Boulevard. (201) 200-1000; www.lsc.org. 
 JERSEY CITY New Jersey City University, Visual Arts Gallery ''Mother Cuts: Experiments in Film and Video,'' an exhibition of audio-visual works by four artists. Through April 11. Free. ''Sustaining Vision: A Tribute to Arlene Raven,'' a multimedia exhibition by eight women. Through April 16. Free. New Jersey City University, Visual Arts Gallery, 100 Culver Avenue. (201) 200-3246. 
 LINCROFT Monmouth Museum ''Beyond Visions of Planetary Landscapes,'' an exhibition of portraits of the solar system by Michael Benson. Through May 4. New Jersey Emerging Artists Series: Handmade Paper, by Marie Sturken. Friday through April 20. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Monmouth Museum, Brookdale Community College, Newman Springs Road. (732) 747-2266; www.monmouthmuseum.org. 
 MANALAPAN Monmouth County Library ''An American in China,'' photographs by Arthur Krasinsky. Through March 31. Free. Monmouth County Library, 125 Symmes Drive. (732) 431-7242. 
 MORRIS TOWNSHIPMorris Museum ''Stepping Out in Style: Outerwear of the Last 150 Years.'' Through May 4. $6 to $8; free on Thursdays, from 5 to 8 p.m. Hours: Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays to 8 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Morris Museum, 6 Normandy Heights Road. (973) 971-3700; www.morrismuseum.org. 
 NEW BRUNSWICK Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation ''Magyar Grafika: Hungarian Posters, advertising and Ephemera,'' an exhibition featuring 75 posters from the 1900's to the 80's. March 16 through Sept. 14. $5. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation, 300 Somerset Street. (732) 846-5777. 
 NEW BRUNSWICK Rutgers University, Douglass Library ''Tiger by the Tail! Women Artists of India Transforming Culture -- Part 1,'' an exhibition of contemporary Indian art. Through July 31. Free. Rutgers University, Douglass Library, 8 Chapel Drive. (732) 932-9407; www.libraries.rutgers.edu/rul/exhibits/dana--womens.shtml. 
 NEW MILFORD Art Center of Northern New Jersey ''Journeys in the Third Dimension,'' a group show featuring 17 sculptors. Through March 25. Free. Hours: Mondays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Art Center of Northern New Jersey, 250 Center Street. (201) 599-2992. 
 NEWARK The Newark Museum ''Small but Sublime: Intimate Views by Durand, Bierstadt and Inness.'' Wednesday through February 2009. ''Women's Tales: Four Leading Israeli Jewelers, '' an exhibition of contemporary jewelry. Wednesday through June 25. ''Glass Beads of Ghana,'' an exhibition featuring colorful and inventive designs of glass beads made with varied techniques and materials. Through June 15. ''O, Write My Name: American Portraits -- Harlem Heroes,'' an exhibition of 50 portrait photographs by Carl Van Vechten between 1930 and 1960. Through June 15. $3 to $7; members, free. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, noon to 5 p.m.; October through June, Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; July through September, Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. The Newark Museum, 49 Washington Street. (973) 596-6493; www.newarkmuseum.org. 
 PATERSON Passaic County Community College ''Mexican Revolutionary Prints,'' from the collection of Kutztown University of Pennsylvania. Through April 30. Free. Passaic County Community College, 1 College Boulevard. (973) 684-6555. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ENGLEWOOD: The Pilobolus Dance Company will perform new and classic pieces at the Bergen Performing Arts Center on Thursday at 8 p.m. Tickets are $25 to $55. 30 North Van Brunt Street. (201) 227-1030
www.bergenpac.org. (pg. NJ18)
NEWARK: Christopher Cazenove plays Henry Higgins and Lisa O'Hare plays Eliza Doolittle in ''My Fair Lady.'' The Lerner and Loewe musical will be at the New Jersey Performing Arts Center Tuesday through March 23. Tickets are $25 to $79. 1 Center Street. (888) 466-5722
www.njpac.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL LE POER TRENCH)
RED BANK: The Marshall Tucker Band will perform its Southern rock at the Count Basie Theater on Friday at 7:30 p.m. The band's guest will be Rockit for Kids, a group of young musicians. Tickets are $20 to $50. 99 Monmouth Street. (732) 842-9000
www.countbasietheatre.org. (pg. NJ21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); LIBRARIES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); POP & ROCK (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (74%); COUNTRY MUSIC (73%); MUSIC GENRES (73%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); FESTIVALS (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (69%); MAMMALS (69%); ANIMALS (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (62%); THEATER (59%)

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (51%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (51%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



397 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; T: Design Magazine; Pg. 134

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Profile in Style: Philippe starck

BYLINE: By Alix Browne

 BODY:
his design dna
 Hotels, restaurants, juicers, furniture, foodstuffs, underwear ... you name it, Philippe Starck has designed it, improved it, given it more sex appeal. ''It's a dynasty built on creativity,'' he says. Starck's mother was a painter, and his father an aircraft engineer who once designed planes. ''I love this photograph of me with Burt Rutan [the C.E.O. of Scaled Composites, an aerospace corporation] because he is like my spiritual father.'' Even as he works on an average of 250 projects at any given moment, he still finds ways to spend time with his family. ''I'm lucky,'' he says, ''because I get to travel with my wife.'' Recently he got to work on the redesign of the Hotel Meurice in Paris with his daughter, the painter Ara Starck, after he unwittingly selected her anonymous submission for the ceiling of the hotel restaurant. ''It was a good surprise,'' he says. 
 his eco-mania 
 Starck may constantly circumnavigate the globe, but he unplugs whenever he can and turns into a homebody. Fortunately, this homebody has homes all over the world. ''I never go out,'' he insists. ''We read a lot. We eat organic and vegetarian.'' One home is on an island in Venice; another is an oyster farm in the south of France. ''No cars, no electricity -- we live with 200,000 oysters in the mud.'' (Starck claims to have raised the world's only cubic oysters.) His work with the Pramac energy group, meanwhile, has produced a design for windmills that also function as wind instruments. ''Ecology is not just an urgency of the economy and protection of our world but also creativity and elegance,'' he says.
 his colorful character
 ''I don't work, I dream,'' Starck says. ''And after, because my dreams are interesting, I have the luck to play with good partners.'' This applies to matters of style as well. Not long ago, Starck purchased a trove of vibrant print fabrics in Africa and took them to Agnes b., where they were transformed into jackets, pants, even hats. He estimates that he now has over a dozen such mismatched ensembles. ''I discovered one day that I was no longer interested in wearing black,'' Starck explains. ''It's more fun to take risks, to be alive. Without risk, you don't deserve to live.'' Among his more flamboyant design risks was a series of gilded lamps modeled on guns for the Italian company Flos. ''The lamp speaks about the collision between money and war,'' he says. ''In the end it is more about politics than design.''
 his planes, trains and automobiles
 When Starck says he's ''an explorer,'' he's not just talking about his pioneering imagination. He recently became the creative director for Virgin Galactic, which aims to fly people to the moon by 2009. One of his more relatively down-to-earth projects is a 118-meter mega-yacht -- a high-tech, low-profile vessel that creates no wake, even at 25 knots. But what really gets his heart racing are motorcycles. ''I have 25 motorbikes around the world,'' boasts the designer, who created a super-stripped-down bike for Voxan. ''It's a pure product of the future.'' And though he has designed an environmentally -- not to mention financially -- friendly car, he never drives one himself. ''I can't survive without my motorcycles -- and maybe I will die on a motorcycle.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Starck's Daughter, Ara, Did This Painting, Below, For The Ceiling Of The Hotel Meurice, In Paris
Clockwise From Above, Left: Starck Drinks Champagne Extra Brut Legrand
Shops Organic
And Designs With The Environment In Mind
His Wife, Jasmine, Below
Starck With Burt Rutan, Of Scaled Composites, Above, And On His Boat In Venice, Below, Left
The Miss Lacy Chair For Driade, Above
The Starck-Designed Interior Of The Baccarat Museum
A Watch For Fossil From 2004
His Favorite Mode Of Transportation, Below
Starck In One Of His Agnes B. Bespoke African Print Ensembles, Below
Starck Designed The Royalton, One Of The First Boutique Hotels In New York Back In The 1980s, Right. He Is Now Reinventing That Concept With SLS, Above. His Design For The Restaurant Katsuya, In L.A., Left
Starck's Eco-Friendly Car, Left
His Voxan Superbike, Right
And The Stealth Yacht He Designed For A Private Client
A Shoe Designed For Puma, Right
The Louis Ghost Chair For Kartell, Above
 The Juicy Salif, Designed For Alessi, And One Of His Gun Lamps For Flos, Right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PORTRAIT, OPPOSITE, TOP LEFT: MARIE FRANCOISE PRYBYS. ALL OTHER PHOTOGRAPHS FROM PHILIPPE STARCK EXCEPT CHAMPAGNE AND BAG: TONY CENICOLA. ROYALTON HOTEL: HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); WIND ENERGY (69%); SHELLFISH FARMING (69%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (67%); MEAT FREE DIETS (65%); AQUACULTURE (64%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: AEROSPACE CORP (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (72%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



398 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 2295 words

 BODY:
COMEDY
 BAY SHORE Boulton Center for the Performing Arts ''Big Laughs in Bay Shore,'' featuring area comedians. March 28 at 8 p.m. $20. Boulton Center for the Performing Arts, 37 West Main Street. (631) 969-1101; www.boultoncenter.com. 
 LEVITTOWN Governor's Comedy Club John Mulrooney, stand-up. Through March 16. $20. All Star Comedy Show. Through Thursday. $12. Louis CK, stand-up. Friday and March 22. $28. Jessica Kirson, stand-up. March 28 and 29. $15. All shows have a two-drink minimum. Governor's Comedy Club, 90 Division Avenue. (516) 731-3358; www.govs.com.
 FOR CHILDREN
 BRIGHTWATERS Bay Shore-Brightwaters Public Library ''Musical Melodies.'' Join the musician Dara Linthwaite for an interactive singalong. Infants to age 5. March 26, 10 to 10:40 a.m. Registration required. Bay Shore-Brightwaters Public Library, 1 South Country Road. (631) 665-4350; http://bayshore.suffolk.lib.ny.us. 
 BROOKVILLE Tilles Center for the Performing Arts ''Jemima Puddle-Duck,'' presented by the Hudson Vagabond Puppets. March 30 at 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, 720 Northern Boulevard, C. W. Post Campus, Long Island University. (516) 299-3100; www.tillescenter.org. 
 GARDEN CITY Long Island Children's Museum Making a Musical Parade Workshop, the performer and artist Stephen Cohen teaches you how to play instruments then play along in a parade throughout the theater. Ages 3 and up. March 16 at 11 a.m. $2 to $6. Kids First! Jr. Critics Club presents Alvin and the Chipmunks. Thursday at 1 p.m. $3 to $6. ''Cirkus,'' interactive circus-style show presented by Tucker's Tales Puppets. Friday through March 22 at 1 and 3 p.m. $2 to $6. ''Not So Silent, Silent Films.'' Learn how to add music and sounds to silent film clips. March 29 and 30. $2 to $6. ''Blue Man Group: Making Waves,'' an exhibition of sound and light guided by the Blue Men. Through May 4. $8 and $9. Long Island Children's Museum, 11 Davis Avenue. (516) 224-5800; www.licm.org. 
 LONG BEACHTheodore Roosevelt Nature Center ''Leprechaun's Rainbow.'' Learn about the many ways light bounces, bends, reflects and refracts. March 29, 10:30 a.m. to noon. $2 and $3. Theodore Roosevelt Nature Center, Ocean Parkway. (516) 679-7254. 
 MERRICK The Stage Theater ''Princess and the Pea,'' a retelling of Hans Christian Andersen's classic children's story. Through April 5. The Stage Theater, 2222 Hewlett Avenue. (516) 868-6400; www.thestageinmerrick.com. 
 SMITHTOWN Caleb Smith State Park Preserve Mosaic Masterpieces. Create nature pictures using colored paper mosaics. Thursday, 10 to 11:30 a.m. $2 and $3. Family Nature Hike, moderate winter hike. March 29, 10 to 11:30 a.m. $2 and $3. Caleb Smith State Park Preserve, Jericho Turnpike. (631) 265-1054. 
 UNIONDALE Nassau Coliseum Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey presents ''Over the Top,'' circus spectacular. Through March 16. $15 to $150. Nassau Coliseum, 1255 Hempstead Turnpike. (516) 794-9300; www.nassaucoliseum.com. 
 FILM
 EAST HAMPTON Guild Hall ''Viva Cuba,'' directed by Juan Carlos Cremata Malberti and Iraida Malberti Cabrera. In Spanish with English subtitles. March 16 at 7 p.m. Free. Guild Hall, 158 Main Street. (631) 324-4050; www.guildhall.org. 
 PORT JEFFERSON Theater Three ''Tootie's Last Suit,'' documentary by Lisa Katzman. Monday at 7 p.m. $4 and $5. Theater Three, 412 Main Street. (631) 928-9100; www.theaterthree.com. 
 STONY BROOKCharles B. Wang Center ''Beautiful Country,'' followed by a discussion with Thora Wagner of the Osher Lifelong Learning Institute. March 27 at 1 p.m. Free. Charles B. Wang Center, Stony Brook University. (631) 632-4400; www.sunysb.edu/sb/wang/. 
 WESTHAMPTON BEACH Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center ''David and Layla,'' romantic comedy by Jay Jonroy. Through March 16. $3 to $10. Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center, 76 Main Street. (631) 288-1500; www.whbpac.org. 
 MUSIC AND DANCE
 AMAGANSETT Stephen Talkhouse The Bossa Nova Beatniks, jazz-fusion. Friday at 8 p.m. $10. Stephen Talkhouse, 161 Main Street. (631) 267-3117; www.stephentalkhouse.com.
 BAY SHORE Boulton Center for the Performing Arts 2U, a U2 tribute band. March 22 at 7 p.m. $22.50. Little Toby Walker, blues guitarist. March 29 at 8 p.m. $25. Boulton Center for the Performing Arts, 37 West Main Street. (631) 969-1101; www.boultoncenter.com. 
 BROOKVILLE Tilles Center for the Performing Arts State Symphony Orchestra of Russia, featuring music by Mussorgsky, Rachmaninoff and Bartok. March 29 at 8 p.m. $47 to $90. Tilles Center for the Performing Arts, 720 Northern Boulevard, C. W. Post Campus, Long Island University. (516) 299-3100; www.tillescenter.org.HOLBROOK Sachem Public Library Island Hills Chorus presents a family-friendly concert. March 16 at 2 p.m. Free. Great Women of Broadway, featuring the cabaret singer Naomi Zeitlin. March 30 at 2 p.m. Free. Sachem Public Library, 150 Holbrook Library. (631) 588-5024. 
 HUNTINGTON Inter-Media Art Center Robin Trower, blues-rock. Thursday at 8 p.m. $50; members, $37.50. Inter-Media Art Center, 370 New York Avenue. (631) 549-2787; www.imactheater.org. 
 HUNTINGTON Old First Church The Story of a Fantaisie, featuring Carol Montparker, pianist, and Katherine Lerner, mezzo-soprano. March 30 at 4 p.m. $10 to $20. Old First Church, Route 25A. (631) 385-0373. 
 OCEANSIDE Oceanside Library Showtime: Divas of Our Time. Naomi Zeitlin performs a tribute to female artists, including Judy Garland. March 26 at 2 p.m. Free. Oceanside Library, 30 Davison Avenue. (516) 766-2360. 
 OYSTER BAY Christ Episcopal Church The Long Island Baroque Ensemble presents a tribute to Johann Sebastian Bach. March 16 at 3 p.m. $10 to $20. Christ Episcopal Church, 61 East Main Street. (631) 724-7386; www.longislandbaroqueensemble.com. 
 SAYVILLE Sayville Middle School Weilerstein Trio, chamber music concert. March 29 at 8 p.m. $30. Sayville Middle School, Johnson Avenue. (631) 224-5420. 
 STONY BROOK Staller Center for the Arts ''Carmen,'' presented by the St. Petersburg Ballet Theater, featuring music of Georges Bizet. March 16 at 7 p.m. $42. Metropolitan Opera: Live in HD presents Wagner's ''Tristan and Isolde.'' March 22 at 12:30 p.m. $15 to $22. East Village Opera Company presents reinterpreted classic arias. March 30 at 7 p.m. $32. Staller Center for the Arts, Stony Brook University. (631) 632-2787; www.staller.sunysb.edu. 
 STONY BROOK University Cafe Jeff Black, pianist. March 30 at 2 p.m. $15 and $20. University Cafe, Stony Brook Union Building, Stony Brook University. (631) 632-1093. 
 UNIONDALE Nassau Coliseum Rockstar Taste of Chaos, featuring Avenged Sevenfold and others. Thursday at 5 p.m. $22.25 and $30.25. Mary J. Blige and Jay-Z: Heart of the City Tour, hip-hop and R & B. March 27 at 7:30 p.m. $76.75 to $172.75. Nassau Coliseum, 1255 Hempstead Turnpike. (516) 794-9300; www.nassaucoliseum.com.
 WESTBURY North Fork Theater Living Legends of Rock and Roll Volume III, featuring various tribute bands. March 22 at 7:30 p.m. $48 and $58. North Fork Theater, 960 Brush Hollow Road. (516) 334-0800; www.livenation.com. 
 OUTDOORS
 COLD SPRING HARBOR Cold Spring Harbor Fish Hatchery and Aquarium Freshwater Fishing on Long Island and Canoe and Kayak Exhibition, a discussion concerning where to fish and what to fish for on Long Island followed by a canoe and kayak exhibition where dealers will show new lines of small crafts. March 29 at 10 a.m. Free. Cold Spring Harbor Fish Hatchery and Aquarium, 1660 Route 25A. (516) 692-6768. 
 LONG BEACH Theodore Roosevelt Nature Center Let's Get Ready to Bird Watch. Observe migrating birds. March 30, 1:30 to 3 p.m. $2 and $3. Theodore Roosevelt Nature Center, Ocean Parkway. (516) 679-7254. 
 OAKDALE Connetquot River State Park Bird-n-Breakfast, a continental breakfast followed by an observation walk. March 29, 8 to 11 a.m. $2 and $3. Connetquot River State Park, Sunrise Highway. (631) 581-1005. 
 SMITHTOWN Caleb Smith State Park Preserve Orienteering Basics. Learn how to read a map and use a compass. March 30, 1:30 to 3 p.m. $2 and $3. Caleb Smith State Park Preserve, Jericho Turnpike. (631) 265-1054. 
 WESTHAMPTON BEACH Cupsogue Beach County Park Coastal Research and Education Society of Long Island Seal Walks. Through May 4. Suggested donation, $5. Cupsogue Beach County Park, Dune Road. (631) 244-3352; www.cresli.org.
 SPOKEN WORD
 COLD SPRING HARBOR Whaling Museum ''Evolution of Design: The Shape of Ships,'' with Ian McCurdy, of McCurdy and Rhodes Yacht Designers. March 16 at 3 p.m. Whaling Museum, Route 25A. (631) 367-3418; www.cshwhalingmuseum.org. 
 GARDEN CITY Ruth S. Harley University Center ''Economic and Sustainable Development: A Challenge for Africa,'' a lecture with Ambassador Zachary Muburi-Muita of Kenya. Thursday at noon. Free. Ruth S. Harley University Center, 1 South Avenue, Adelphi University. (516) 877-4555. 
 HOLBROOK Sachem Public Library ''From Rosie the Riveter to Harriet the Happy Homemaker: Women on Screen During and After World War II,'' a lecture by Rob Edelman. March 25 at 7 p.m. Free. ''Global Warming,'' a lecture with Henry J. Bokuniewicz of Stony Brook University. March 26 at 7:30 p.m. Free. A discussion of ''A Streetcar Named Desire,'' by Ursula Bennett. March 27 at noon. Free. Sachem Public Library, 150 Holbrook Library. (631) 588-5024. 
 HUNTINGTON Huntington Public Library ''Spotlight on History: Before the Telephone, TV and Computers, Newspapers Were the Source of Information,'' lecture with Dave Concar. March 26 at 7 p.m. Free. Huntington Public Library, 338 Main Street. (631) 427-5165. 
 THEATER
 BAY SHORE Boulton Center for the Performing Arts ''Knighthorse,'' a two-person adaptation of Shakespeare's ''Midsummer Night's Dream.'' March 16 at 2 p.m. Free. Boulton Center for the Performing Arts, 37 West Main Street. (631) 969-1101; www.boultoncenter.com. 
 EAST FARMINGDALE Arena Players Main Stage Theater ''Angel Feathers,'' a dark comedy by Greg Suddeth. Through March 16. $18 and $22. ''Doubt,'' a drama by John Patrick Shanley. Friday through April 13. $18 and $22. Arena Players Main Stage Theater, 296 Route 109. (516) 293-0674; www.arenaplayers.org. 
 EAST FARMINGDALE Arena Players Second Stage Theater ''Bring 'Em On!'' a drama by Sean David Bennet. Through March 23. $18 and $22. Arena Players Second Stage Theater, 294 Route 109. (516) 293-0674; www.arenaplayers.org. 
 GARDEN CITY Adelphi University, Post Hall ''City Of,'' a new play written and directed by Anton Dudley about four Americans who journey to Paris in search of love. Thursday and Friday. Free. Adelphi University, Post Hall, 1 South Avenue. (516) 877-4010; www.adelphi.edu. 
 NORTH MERRICK Lantern Theater of North Merrick ''The Foreigner,'' a comedy by Larry Shue. Through March 16. $13 and $15. Lantern Theater of North Merrick, 1260 Meadowbrook Road. (516) 221-4485; www.lanterntheatreli.com. 
 NORTHPORT John W. Engeman Theater ''Always...Patsy Cline,'' a musical by Ted Swindley. Through April 13. $55. John W. Engeman Theater, 250 Main Street. (631) 261-2900; www.johnwengemantheater.com. 
 PORT JEFFERSON Theater Three ''Almost Heaven: The Songs of John Denver,'' a musical. Through March 22. $21. Theater Three, 412 Main Street. (631) 928-9100; www.theaterthree.com. 
 QUOGUE Quogue Community Hall ''The Oldest Living Graduate,'' by Preston Jones, presented by the Hampton Theater Company. March 27 through April 13. $10 to $22. Quogue Community Hall, 126 Jessup Avenue. (631) 653-8955; www.hamptontheatre.org. 
 MUSEUMS AND GALLERIES
 BELLPORT Ratio Gallery ''Two Distinct Views: The Individual and the Collective,'' works by Marlies Ihmels and David N. Ebner. Through May 3. Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; other days by appointment. Ratio Gallery, 10 Bell Street. (631) 286-4020; www.ratiogallery.com. 
 BROOKVILLE Hillwood Art Museum ''Peach Blossom Spring: The Magrill Collection of Chinese Art.'' Through April 12. ''Material Conversations: Jewelry Found and Fabricated,'' the work of Alice Sprintzen and Robert Danick. Through May 10. Mondays through Wednesdays and Fridays, 9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Hillwood Art Museum, C. W. Post Campus, Long Island University. (516) 299-4073; www.liu.edu/museum. 
 COLD SPRING HARBOR Whaling Museum ''Pirates!'' An exhibition that explores the mystery and folklore of pirates using artifacts and art. Through Aug. 1. $4 and $5; children under 5, free. Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Whaling Museum, Route 25A. (631) 367-3418; www.cshwhalingmuseum.org. 
 DIX HILLS Jeanie Tengelsen Gallery ''A Sense of Place,'' group show. Through March 30. Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Jeanie Tengelsen Gallery, 107 East Deer Park Road. (631) 462-5400. 
 HEMPSTEAD Hofstra Museum ''African-American Highlights From the Reader's Digest Association Art Collection,'' featuring 36 works from various artists. Through Thursday. Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Hofstra Museum, 112 Hofstra University. (516) 463-5672; www.hofstra.edu/museum. 
 NORTHPORT Northport Historical Society Museum ''Burying Grounds: Art, History and Genealogy.'' Through March 31. Donation: $3. Tuesdays through Sundays, 1 to 4:30 p.m. Northport Historical Society Museum, 215 Main Street. (631) 757-9859; www.northporthistorical.org.
 ROSLYN HARBORNassau County Museum of Art ''Games, Gizmos and Toys in the Attic,'' a three-dimensional installation by Walter Wick. Through April 27. ''Pop and Op,'' mixed-media exhibition. Through May 4. $4 to $10; children under 5 and members, free. Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 4:45 p.m. Nassau County Museum of Art, 1 Museum Drive. (516) 484-9337; www.nassaumuseum.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STONY BROOK: The Nai-Ni Chen Dance Company performs March 29 at the Asian-American Cultural Festival of Long Island, featuring performances, films, workshops, crafts, tea ceremony and more. 1 to 6 p.m. at the Charles B. Wang Center, Stony Brook University. Free. (631) 632-4400
www.sunysb.edu/sb/wang/. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROL ROSEGG) (pg. (LI9)
BAY SHORE: Judy Garland and Fred Astaire in the musical ''Easter Parade,'' showing at the Boulton Center for the Performing Arts on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are $8. 37 West Main Street. (631) 969-1101
www.boultoncenter.com. (pg. LI12)
BROOKVILLE: ''Rain: The Beatles Experience'' features the music of the Beatles at the Tilles Center for the Performing Arts on March 16 at 7 p.m. Tickets are $42 to $75. 720 Northern Boulevard, C. W. Post Campus, Long Island University. (516) 299-3100
 www.tillescenter.org. (pg. LI9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (93%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); FILM (89%); CHILDREN (88%); MUSIC (88%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (75%); LIBRARIES (74%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (74%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (69%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (69%); STATE PARKS (64%); THEATER (58%)

COMPANY: MAN GROUP PLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%)

TICKER: EMG (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



399 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: NONFICTION: Sunday, March 16th 2008

 BODY:
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending March 1, at many thousands of venues where a wide range of general interest books are sold nationwide. These include hundreds of independent book retailers (statistically weighted to represent all such outlets); national, regional and local chains; online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket, discount department stores and newsstands. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Among those categories not actively tracked are: perennial sellers; required classroom reading; text, reference and test preparation guides; journals and workbooks; calorie counters; shopping guides; comics and crossword puzzles. Expanded rankings are available on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	BEST SELLERS: NONFICTION		 	 	 	1		1	LOSING IT, by Valerie Bertinelli. (Free Press, $26.) A memoir by the actress and former wife of Eddie Van Halen focuses on depression and her effort to lose weight. 		 	 	 	2	1	8	LIBERAL FASCISM, by Jonah Goldberg. (Doubleday, $27.95.) This ''alternative history of American liberalism ... reveals its roots in, and commonalities with, classical fascism.''		 	 	 	3		1	BEAUTIFUL BOY, by David Sheff. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.) A father struggles with his son's meth addiction.		 	 	 	4	2	9	IN DEFENSE OF FOOD, by Michael Pollan. (Penguin Press, $21.95.) A manifesto urges us to ''Eat food. Not too much. Mostly plants.''		 	 	 	5	5	2	PREDICTABLY IRRATIONAL, by Dan Ariely. (Harper, $25.95.) An M.I.T. behavioral economist shows how emotions and social norms systematically shape our behavior.		 	 	 	6	8	7	REAL CHANGE, by Newt Gingrich with Vince Haley and Rick Tyler. (Regnery, $27.95.) How to build a better America, from the former speaker of the House.		 	 	 	7	4	3	RECONCILIATION, by Benazir Bhutto. (Harper/Harper Collins, $27.95.) A posthumous look at Islam, democracy and the West, by Pakistan's former prime minister and assassinated opposition leader.		 	 	 	8*	6	21	I AM AMERICA (AND SO CAN YOU!), by Stephen Colbert, Richard Dahm, Paul Dinello, Allison Silverman et al. (Grand Central, $26.99.) The wit and wisdom of the mock pundit of Comedy Central's ''Colbert Report.''		 	 	 	9	3	3	THE AGE OF AMERICAN UNREASON, by Susan Jacoby. (Pantheon, $26.) Are Americans hostile to knowledge?		 	 	 	10	7	15	AN INCONVENIENT BOOK, by Glenn Beck and Kevin Balfe. (Threshold Editions, $26.) Beck's solutions to problems including global warming and political correctness.		 	 	 	11	11	2	THE REASON FOR GOD, by Timothy Keller. (Dutton, $24.95.) A minister addresses common doubts and defends faith in a Christian God.		 	 	 	12	10	2	MANIC, by Terri Cheney. (Morrow, $24.95.) A memoir of life with bipolar disorder.		 	 	 	13*	14	4	HOPE'S BOY, by Andrew Bridge. (Hyperion, $22.95.) A memoir of foster care by an advocate for poor children.		 	 	 	14	9	2	GOD'S PROBLEM, by Bart D. Ehrman. (HarperOne, $25.95.) A scholar examines the Bible's contradictory pronouncements on the meaning of suffering.		 	 	 	15		8	THE HEROIN DIARIES, by Nikki Sixx with Ian Gittins. (Pocket, $32.50.) The Motley Crue bassist's record of a year of drug addiction.		 	 	 	16*		111	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $27.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to everything from cheating sumo wrestlers to the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); BOOK SALES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); NEWSSTANDS (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (66%); RELIGION (66%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%); METHAMPHETAMINE (50%)

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (51%); STEPHEN COLBERT (50%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (50%); GLENN BECK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2008



400 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; T: Design Magazine; OBJECT LESSON; Pg. 96

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Dearth of a Nation

BYLINE: By ALICE RAWSTHORN

 BODY:
First, a confession: I'm British. 
 And now a warning -- the theme of this column is what's wrong with American design, so if you don't like the idea of a foreigner whining about that, stop reading right now. 
 So, what is wrong with American design? I'm not talking about every category of design, just the one that's most important to this magazine -- furniture. There isn't much wrong with the rest. Quite the reverse. The United States is home to many world-class designers: Marc Jacobs in fashion, Paula Scher in graphics, Will Wright in games, Tobias Frere-Jones in typography and Apple as a role model of corporate design. 
 But where are America's leaders in furniture design? Its last furniture coup was the Aeron chair, designed by Don Chadwick and the late Bill Stumpf for Herman Miller -- and that was in 1994. The blunt truth is that if I were to compile my list of the world's top furniture designers, it would include Jasper Morrison and Marc Newson in Britain, Konstantin Grcic in Germany, Hella Jongerius and Jurgen Bey in the Netherlands and the Bouroullecs in France, but no Americans. 
 And it's not as if furniture design isn't taken seriously in America. The United States has the world's finest modern furniture design collection at the Museum of Modern Art, the best design store in Moss, the plushest design auctions in New York and the biggest design fair in Miami. Furniture also dominates the media coverage of design. 
 There's even a great history to draw on, because American furniture designers ruled back in the 1940s and '50s, when Charles and Ray Eames, Harry Bertoia, George Nelson and Eero Saarinen were in their heydays. But that was an exceptional time. ''Designers are like flowers,'' observes Paola Antonelli, the senior curator of architecture and design at MoMA. ''They thrive in the right terrain: usually a mix of intellectual and artistic fervor, supported by a lively industrial sector of small to medium-size companies. That's why American design was unstoppable after World War II.'' 
 What has changed since then? An important change is the structure of the furniture industry. Herman Miller, Knoll and other companies that once championed the Eameses and their peers are now too big and too nervous about upsetting their shareholders to risk experimenting with design.
 Today there are few American versions of the small, gutsy European furniture manufacturers -- like Britain's Established & Sons and Moooi of the Netherlands -- that champion innovative design. Michael Maharam, a principal of the Maharam textiles group, believes that this is because corporate success in the United States is driven by ''functionality, price and availability, not the roots of craft tradition and refinement.'' In other words, being small, independent and daring isn't valued in corporate culture. Or profitable: too few manufacturers are able to make a living producing creative work in small quantities. It's not only furniture design that suffers; fashion and architecture face the same problems, too.
 Today, world-class designers aren't as dependent on local manufacturing as they were in the 1940s and '50s. Thanks to digital technology and the global economy, designers now communicate remotely with factories, and manufacturers scour the world for designers, of which too few are American. 
 One problem is the fragmented nature of design education in America. Furniture design tends to be taught in art schools here rather than with other design disciplines, as it is in top European schools like Eindhoven in the Netherlands and Britain's Royal College of Art. Antonelli, for one, believes that American design students would benefit from more exposure to other disciplines such as engineering.
 Nor does the United States provide the grants that support young Dutch and French designers during their education and in the vulnerable early years of their careers. American design graduates have to fend for themselves and generally end up taking jobs to make ends meet, leaving them with little or no time for creative experimentation. 
 Would it be possible for a gifted young American furniture designer to overcome these obstacles and break into the global Top 10? Yes, but only if he was an anomaly, so talented and gifted and driven that he was seemingly unstoppable. And even then, it would be much, much tougher for him than for the Eameses in their era. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FROM LEFT: $
PAUL TAHON AND R & E BOUROULLEC
FROM KONSTANTIN GRCIC INDUSTRIAL DESIGN
WALTER GUMIERO/CAPPELLINI
 FROM JONGERIUSLAB.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (76%); FURNITURE MFG (76%); TEXTILES (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); WORLD WAR II (63%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (60%)

COMPANY: HERMAN MILLER INC (91%)

TICKER: MLHR (NASDAQ) (91%); MHR (FRA) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS337215 SHOWCASE, PARTITION, SHELVING & LOCKER MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS337211 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2542 OFFICE & STORE FIXTURES, PARTITIONS, SHELVING, & LOCKERS, EXCEPT WOOD (91%); SIC2522 OFFICE FURNITURE EX. WOOD (91%); SIC2521 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE (91%); SIC2426 HARDWOOD DIMENSION & FLOORING MILLS (91%)

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NETHERLANDS (70%); GERMANY (70%); FRANCE (70%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008

 
