

401 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Giving; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Q&A/ADVOCACY; 
The Case for 2 Approaches

BYLINE:  By NANCY WARTIK

 BODY:
It has long been a truism in philanthropy that service programs are financed more readily than so-called advocacy programs.
 The Meyer Foundation, endowed in 1944 by the Washington Post publisher Eugene Meyer and his wife, Agnes E., to invest in the greater D.C. area, is an exception to the rule. In September, when the National Committee for Responsive Philanthropy issued a report based on asking 118 advocacy groups in the Washington region to name their most reliable source of funds, the Meyer Foundation was far above the crowd. 
 "Many foundations are controversy-shy and risk-averse," said Rick Cohen, the executive director of the N.C.R.P. "They don't like sticking their neck out."
Julie Rogers, 53, has been the Meyer Fund's executive director for 17 years. She says that her early experience as a teacher informs her belief that dollars go further when they are used to help change the system. "When you teach one child at a time, you can't get families what they need to ensure a child's success," she said. "You can't get that kid a doctor's appointment or mom more money for food. You're just one piece of a very complicated equation." 
Recently, Ms. Rogers spoke about the philosophies that guide her foundation's grant-making decisions:

How do you define advocacy?
Sometimes advocacy means bringing people together to create a voice for themselves around issues that matter to them. Sometimes it means coalition building, like gathering all the agencies in your region that work with Latino people. Sometimes it means data analysis, strategizing and actually lobbying and going to work with government officials on specific legislation. The broadest piece is how do you create and sustain a voice for the population you're working with. For us, advocacy means giving a voice.

Is financing nonprofits that do advocacy work particularly important right now?
These times are so difficult for poor people as the income gap gets more acute and for nonprofits as they face lots of different financial pressures. Our grantees are facing a higher demand for service because the economy's been down at the same time as almost all their revenue streams are down. Most states are having longterm revenue issues that won't be resolved soon. We have always funded service and advocacy, but I think we're feeling it's even more important now to fund the advocacy groups because the public policy issues that matter so much in the lives of clients of our grantees are big ones. 

Statistics suggest maybe only 2 to 3 percent of the $30 billion or so that American foundations give out each year goes to support advocacy activities. Why such a small percentage?
A lot of the charitable world supports work on the ground that helps people. Feeds, clothes, shelters, houses them. You have to think about this work a little differently to also want to fund the creation of a voice for poor people. Some people see it as either/or. We see it as you've got to do both: direct service and advocacy. If you do that, you will get greater outcome because it's synergistic.
We fund a lot of nonprofits that deliver health care services to poor families: Mary's Center for Maternal and Child Care. The Washington Free Clinic. La Clinica del Pueblo. When the District of Columbia decided to change to a managed care system for its Medicaid population in 1996, all the clinics faced a new way of doing business. It was a big change that meant that clinics serving 60 percent of the city's poor patients might no longer be reimbursed for their services. So we helped those organizations form a coalition, the DC Primary Care Association.
We made a small grant that got them organized and then we continued to fund the coalition. They argued successfully for better coverage with D.C. public health officials, and they got their own reimbursement rate raised from $35 to $65 a visit. That has made it possible for this group of clinics to serve an additional 13,000 children and families and 4,000 adults. 

Is it actually harder to finance advocacy from a regulatory point of view?
I don't think it's really harder. We don't sit here worrying intensely about it. There is a body of I.R.S. regulation around what nonprofits can do and what foundations can fund that is very understandable. The onus is on the groups we support to know the rules. If you're going to fund a soup kitchen versus funding organizing and people who are collecting data, developing positions and eventually planning to lobby the city council, it may seem a little more complex.
People, I think, get hesitant. It is true that probably some part of advocates' agendas will include working with government officials and legislatures, though it is certainly not everything they do.

Do you sense that some of your colleagues, other heads of foundations, are starting to think more in terms of financing advocacy?
I don't have any empirical data, but among many very thoughtful funders there is renewed interest in working with advocacy organizations. The pressures that are on poor people and the providers of services have created a sort of a wake-up call to some funders that they also need to pay attention to creating a voice. Again, using an example from my region, after 9/11 and the attacks on the Pentagon, a lot of low-wage workers in hotel and airline industries lost their jobs. Tourism had declined. We had a magnificent gift that Meyer helped broker from the Ford Foundation, and we created a pooled fund called the Community Capacity Fund that was run by a regional association, the Washington Grantmakers. We had money from Ford and several other sources.
We regranted those dollars by putting a bunch of really smart program people from foundations in our region on a committee. And I think the work the committee was doing on issues like the displaced workers rekindled everybody's interest in advocacy for safety net programs. It just broughtto the foreground again how vulnerable those families were. How narrow the margin is for the working poor in our region. Even though the project is now over, there is a group of funders and advocates still meeting to try to figure out how we could strengthen the capacity of advocacy groups in the region. 

Is that a healthy trend? Do you want to see more people doing it the way Meyer does it?
I'm torn between saying more people should do what we do and another part of me that says it is O.K. for different foundations and givers to come at this with their own perspectives. There's a lot of money coming into this territory. Families are inheriting wealth, people are setting up their philanthropic vehicles. We are often approached by families, other foundations who sometimes seek advice. And every family looks at this differently, based on their own politics, religion, how they want to do their charity. People have different views on what they see the community's needs as, and how they want to make a difference. Some people just want to do direct service. So I think that the way Meyer approaches this, and some of our other colleagues, too, is smart and strategic. But I also think philanthropy has room for all different styles. Like a quilt. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: RELIABLE SOURCE -- Julie Rogers of the Meyer Foundation: "For us, advocacy means giving a voice." (Photo by Jamie Rose for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (72%); FAMILY (72%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (72%) Philanthropy

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COMMITTEE FOR RESPONSIVE PHILANTHROPY (57%) Meyer Fund

PERSON: Nancy Wartik; Julie Rogers

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



402 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Giving; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: OVERSEAS; 
Take Books, Add Food, Watch the World Change

BYLINE:  By DANIEL B. SCHNEIDER

 BODY:
MOHAMMED ADOW, a 28-year-old Somali journalist with the BBC World Service in London, attended primary school in Garissa, a dry, dusty region in Kenya. The school was poor, but students received meals through an international school feeding program.
 "The food was not good," he said. "Just beans and maize, with a lot of maize and very few beans, cooked in a big pot. But when I look back on it, it used to be delicious." 
 Basic education is one of the most far-reaching single investments that can improve the economies and foster the emergence of literate, self-reliant societies in the developing world. And when meals are offered in schools, enrollment and attendance rates increase significantly, as a student's ability to concentrate and learn is generally sharply improved.
In poor societies, the ramifications of this simple formula are more clear-cut and wide-ranging than in the developed world. In the last several years they have fostered a minor renaissance in the culture of humanitarian aid.
Aid organizations have become increasingly mindful of the fact that by feeding a child in school, they address not only short-term hunger but some of the societal ills that allow it to endure. In 2001, with a $124 million contribution from the United States Government, the World Food Program of the United Nations tried to reach more schoolchildren.
In 2000, the agency provided daily meals to 12.3 million pupils in 54 countries; this year, the agency says more than 15.6 million children in 70 countries will receive the meals.
"If you feed children, they come to school and they stay in school and they learn better," said Arlene Mitchell, who heads the agency's School Feeding Program.
Some charities have supported schoolfeeding programs for decades. But the school meal programs fell out of fashion in the 1990's, Ms. Mitchell said. Interest was revived with the McGovern-Dole global food initiative, a two-year pilot program approved by President Bill Clinton in 2000 with $300 million in financing.
The program, which provides American farm surpluses for school feeding programs in developing countries, was made permanent by the Bush administration in 2002. But Congress may cut funds to about a quarter of 2001 levels in the budget process.
The United States Government is by far the greatest contributor to the World Food Program. The agency, based in Rome, has an annual budget of $1.9 billion and is financed by donations, almost all from governments, although it is trying to get more help from private sources and institutions. The agency says it costs $34 a year to feed a child in school, or 19 cents a day.
School feeding programs tend to operate in desolate areas where enrollments are low and a nutritious meal has the biggest impact. The greatest beneficiary by far in 2002 was North Korea, followed by Kenya, India, Bangladesh and Cuba.
The programs hope to overcome the kind of hunger that is generally associated with poor diet and poverty rather than with famine. When possible, fortified foods are used to counter deficiencies and help school performance. Iodine is usually added to salt, and oils are fortified with vitamin A.
School meals usually consist of a fortified cereal-based drink and simple gruel or fortified biscuits, prepared by parents or paid cooks in canteens. When possible, the foods are familiar to the region -- couscous in Niger, for instance, or pumpkin porridge in North Korea.
Every attempt ismade to serve a meal early in the school day, when children's energy levels are lowest. "Internationally, many kids have to walk kilometers and kilometers just to get to school, so they start out with no energy and reduce it even more," Ms. Mitchell said. "Your chances of having their attention and good behavior are really limited. They literally fall asleep from lack of energy."
A Unicef study completed this year found that of the world's 300 million chronically hungry children, 134 million do not attend school. School meals add nutrition and savings to the family food budget. Research by the World Food Program has shown that when schools provide a meal, enrollments can double in a year.
In many poor countries, parents depend on children to work in the fields, care for siblings and search for food. Some programs try to compensate by providing take-home rations or cooking oil for the child's family. In some instances, families are allowed to sell these additional rations.
This strategy has been successful where poverty and tribal or cultural traditions keep girls out of school. Two out of three children who do not attend primary school are girls, and many meal programs are designed to narrow this gap.
"To encourage attendance by girls or other hard-to-reach groups, we use take-home rations for good attendance," Ms. Mitchell said. "In Pakistan, for example, if a girl attends school 20 days a month she gets food to take home to her family."
Girls who attend school tend to marry later and have fewer children, the food experts say. Educated mothers are more likely to contribute to family income, are better able to manage the food supply and are more likely to educate their daughters.
School feeding is not without pitfalls. Some students do not improve because parents cut back on meals served at home. Storage and transportation are complex, and mealtimes vary greatly from country to country. Teachers may be forced to take time out to prepare and serve meals.
Most important, a transition strategy must be put in place to help the community take over school feeding when the local World Food Program has run its course, usually about five years in the least-developed countries. More than 12 countries, including Brazil, Namibia and Swaziland, have taken over school feeding from the World Food Program in recent years.
"You go in, you show the benefit to the community, you get them involved in the process, and eventually you're trying to see how they can take over the program," said Trudy Bower, the director for the World Food Program in Ghana. "That's our strategy. Aid does not become endless."

Combining Hunger Programs and Education
Here are a few of the aid organizations that operate school feeding program overseas:

CARE
650 First Ave.
New York 10016
careusa.org
(212) 686-3110

Catholic Relief Services
209 West Fayette Street
Baltimore, Md. 21201
catholicrelief.org
(800) 736-3467

Mercy Corps
Dept. NR
P.O. Box 2669
Portland, Ore. 97208
mercycorps.org
(800) 852-2100

Save the Children
54 Wilton Rd.
Westport, Conn. 06880
savethechildren.org
(800) 728-3843

World Food Program
2 United Nations Plaza
Room DC-2 2500
New York 10017
www.friendsofwfp.org
(212) 963-8364

GRAPHIC: Photos: GLOBAL GOALS -- From left, children in China, Colombia and Ethiopia who are among the 15 million children in 70 countries receiving school meals financed by the World Food Program. (Photo by Tom Haskell/World Food Progam); (Photo by Jorge Gamboa/World Food Program) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (87%); SCHOOL ATTENDANCE (78%); WRITERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); PHILANTHROPY (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); APPROVALS (69%) Education and Schools; Philanthropy; Lunch and Breakfast Programs; Third World and Developing Countries

COMPANY: BBC WORLD SERVICE TELEVISION LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (82%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (52%) Daniel B Schneider

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (92%); SOMALIA (92%); CHINA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



403 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Giving; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: IN THE CHURCHES; 
For Boston's Archdiocese, An Appeal Is Rebranded

BYLINE:  By JULIE FLAHERTY

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
FOR nearly two decades, Cardinal Bernard F. Law was the face of the annual Cardinal's Appeal, the primary fund-raising drive for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Boston. A letter from the popular archbishop, featuring his photograph, was enough to attract significant donations.
 Then Cardinal Law became associated with the sexual abuse scandals that rocked the archdiocese and forced his resignation last December amid allegations that he had tolerated the abuse of children by priests under his supervision. Furious at Cardinal Law and other church leaders, many Boston Catholics boycotted the Cardinal's Appeal, and some pastors refused to take part. The archdiocese staff that handles the appeal culled mailing lists as more people said they would not pledge. The Cardinal's Appeal scraped in $8.9 million last year, a drop from the $16.2 million raised in 2001. 
 In the words of Damien J. DeVasto, the director of the appeal, there has been a rebranding: the name has been changed from the Cardinal's Appeal to the Annual Catholic Appeal (a title that is also used by several other cities for their yearly diocesan appeals). This year's fund-raising letters, which were sent out beginning in April, feature photos of parochial school students and other laypeople, not the archbishop of Boston. And a new slogan, "one church, many works," highlights the 80 programs and ministries that benefit from the appeal.
This new approach signals a departure from the old one, which Mr. DeVasto described as "steeped in hierarchy." The personality-centered campaign was not suited to realities in the church, nor did it reflect the image of the new archbishop, Sean P. O'Malley, a Capuchin Franciscan who wears the order's simple brown robe.
Although it is still far below the levels of two years ago, this year's appeal has reached $8.2 million so far, which is 10 to 20 percent more than last year's contributions at this time, and is expected to reach the $9 million goal. (As of 2001, there were about 2.1 million Catholics in the archdiocese.)
How much is attributable to the new marketing campaign is hard to say. About a third of this year's donors did not give last year, Mr. DeVasto said. He attributes most of the gains to positive feelings about Archbishop O'Malley, who was appointed by Pope John Paul II on July 1, 2003. Two months after the appointment, Mr. DeVasto said, the appeal raised about $1 million. And Archbishop O'Malley's decision in September to settle almost 550 lawsuits over sexual abuse by priests is likely to be received favorably by donors.
"He's been totally positive," said Fred O'Neill, referring to Archbishop O'Malley. Mr. O'Neill, a Catholic, lives in Duxbury and is a senior vice president of the Suffolk Construction Company in Boston. He stopped donating to the archdiocese last year, but said he was giving again because he was impressed with the archbishop's sincerity, straightforwardness and ability to "tell it like it is."
Mr. DeVasto hoped that the appeal, which finances more than 50 percent of the archdiocese's operating expenses, can reach its pre-scandal levels in a relatively short time. "We're hopeful that over a three-year period, we'll find our way back," he said. 
Not all Boston Catholics have returned to the flock, though, and many say they want to see more changes before they commit to opening their wallets. James E. Post, the president of Voice of the Faithful, a local group that seeks church reform, wants the archdiocese to publicize how the appeal money will be spent. 
"I cannot see how to contribute to a diocesan or archdiocesan campaign without a clear understanding of where that money is going to go and how it is going to be used, and I know I am not alone in that," Mr. Post said. "The trust that was shattered doesn't come back as if by magic."
Dr. Charles E. Zech, a professor of economics at Villanova University in Villanova, Pa., who studies Catholic giving, said he expected that financial accountability would continue to be an issue. When the scandal first began, Dr. Zech said, major Catholic donors tended to be loyal to the church and did not cut off their sponsorship, but those donors may demand more now. "There is some evidence, Dr. Zech said, "that major donors are really worried about where their money goes." 
Some religious charities have rebounded from overwhelming scandals, said Francis J. Butler, the president of Foundations and Donors Interested in Catholic Activities, a group of family foundations in Washington. Mr. Butler said that few people expected Covenant House, the child welfare agency in New York, to survive after its founder, the Rev. Bruce Ritter, resigned in 1990 amid allegations of sexual and financial misconduct, leaving the organization $38 million in debt. But under its new president, Sister Mary Rose McGeady, the charity regained 80 percent of its donors within three years. 
"What's operative here is people's faith," Mr. Butler said. "They want this institution to work."
Boston Catholics seem willing to give to Catholic organizations besides the archdiocese. Boston Catholic Television held its most successful telethon ever this fall, and the Blessed John XXIII National Seminary in Weston had a record-breaking fund-raiser too. Although some parishes are still behind on their weekly collections, others have surpassed their 2001 totals.
The Rev. Robert Bullock, the pastor of Our Lady of Sorrows in Sharon, a Boston suburb, said he campaigned for the appeal this year, but understood why other donors might hold back.
"There is going to be a very strong wait-and-see attitude," he said. "The only voice they have is a financial one, and they are making their voice heard."

GRAPHIC: Photo: NAME-DROPPER -- The Boston Archdiocese removed references to Cardinal Law. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); FUNDRAISING (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); BRANDING (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (77%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (77%); CHILD ABUSE (76%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (76%); CHILDREN (76%); LITIGATION (76%); SCANDALS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); SEX SCANDALS (71%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (60%) Philanthropy; Priests; Child Abuse and Neglect; Sex Crimes; Finances

ORGANIZATION: Roman Catholic Church; Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: Bernard F (Cardinal) Law; Julie Flaherty

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Boston (Mass); Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



404 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Giving; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: VOLUNTEERING; 
Plattsburg's Favorite Phrases? 'Stop By' and 'Pitch In'

BYLINE:  By ANNA BAHNEY

DATELINE: PLATTSBURG, Mo. 

 BODY:
AT 11:30 a.m., Helen Russell, a petite 78-year-old, left the genealogy library office at the Courtyard Community Center, where she volunteers every Monday. As she walked briskly down Main Street toward the Plattsburg Senior Center for lunch, she pointed at one of the many flowerpots on the sidewalk. 
 "These are another thing done by volunteers," Mrs. Russell said, explaining how her town of 2,300 -- and others like it --gets things done. 
 The plantings -- courtesy of the high school's FFA (formerly the Future Farmers of America) chapter, its agricultural education department and the Master Gardeners -- are among the civic services and amenities that Plattsburg has because of its residents' unpaid support. Firefighters and reserve deputy sheriffs are volunteers; the mayor and the six councilmembers are essentially volunteer positions, with a stipend of $600 and $300 each year. 
Volunteers stock the food pantry, tutor children and pick up litter. They also delivered 25,000 meals to shut-ins and helped serve them at the Senior Center last year and renovated a 19th-century livery stable (most recently used as a roller skate factory) into a community center.
Yet, the word "volunteerism" is not big in Plattsburg, 35 miles north of Kansas City, Mo., and the seat of Clinton County. In this town, people sign up for traditional volunteer leadership roles like scout leader or choir director, but they are just as likely to "pitch in," "stop by" or "bring a pie." (Mrs. Russell's pecan pies are a staple at the numerous fund-raisers, fairs and funeral dinners for which she bakes every year.)
"We don't preach the gospel of volunteering," said Dr. Jim Hobbs, 60, a dentist who is the president of the board that worked 10 years to transform donations of money, time and labor into the community center. Instead, Dr. Hobbs said, "you appeal to people's sense of civic pride and the value of the impact of the project. And the fact that unless someone offers to do it, it will never get done." 
Scholars have a name for that kind of pitching in: "helping behavior." Peter Dobkin Hall, the Hauser Lecturer on Nonprofit Organizations at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, called it a fading element in American culture, "because physical proximity doesn't define community anymore, except if you live in a small town."
When people volunteer in the context of their profession, for instance, they tend to feel that their responsibility -- and the help they can get -- is limited to that role, Mr. Hall said. It is not the same understanding created by the interconnectivity of a small town, in which neighbors are members in a community that includes school, work, church and governance. Like Plattsburg. 
But Mrs. Russell saw nothing extraordinary in the townspeople's involvement. "I don't think that Plattsburg is unusual," she said. "Of course, I haven't lived anyplace else." 
This particular week, Mrs. Russell, who was the town's circuit clerk and ex officio recorder of dates for 39 years before retiring in 1990, stopped by the Senior Center, taught Sunday school, helped a worship service at a nursing home, met with the United Methodist Women and made crafts for a bazaar. Monthly, she attends board meetings at the Senior Center, and every few months she goes to meetings at the Clinton County Historical Society and the Plattsburg High School Alumni Association. 
Then there are things she does that are not related to any organization, like taking 98-year-old Halkaline Bergsten to St. Joseph, 30 miles northwest, to get new glasses. 
"Maybe she might need a light bulb changed that she can't reach," Mrs. Russell said. "So you get up on the ladder. She'll call me to take her to the beauty shop. Someone picks her up to take her to church. A lady takes her to the grocery store. She has people that take care of her all the time." 
Mrs. Russell also handles research requests and compiles documents at her genealogy library, a branch of the historical society. In her roles at the library and as founder of the alumni association, she has collected most senior class pictures from 1907 to 1947 and enlarged them to hang in the high school. On this day, she brought a picture of the class of 1939 to the Senior Center for Leon Montgomery, an 83-year-old volunteer there, who was 18 in the photograph. "We come by here, oh, about five times a week," Mr. Montgomery said as he put menus into envelopes to go out with deliveries to the shut-ins. 
Joyce Ketchem, 72, who was a waitress at the Starlite restaurant in nearby Stewartsville for 25 years and now lives in Plattsburg, also volunteers at the center. "I do anything they ask me to do," she said. "I sack lunches. Wipe the tables. If people are not able to go get their lunch, why, I go and get it for them.
"It's a nice town to live in. The people are friendly. And where else can you go and get a free cup of coffee at a filling station? Right here at Larry's One Stop." 
While for some, life in Plattsburg may sound as fictional as in Lake Wobegon, the mayor, John Huffman, insists that pitching in is "just something you do. It's part of living in the Midwest. It's the culture." 
There are downsides to a small community that is not off a major highway. Mr. Huffman, 63, who owns a bed-and-breakfast and an antiques store, said that Plattsburg's largest problem was slow economic growth. With 12 percent of the population living below the poverty line, according to the 2000 census, and more people commuting to Kansas City or St. Joseph for jobs, the economic troubles in Plattsburg are evident.
But, Mr. Huffman said, people "may cut back on buying an antique. They may decide to not buy a car for an extra year. But you don't see a decline in donations of time, labor and effort."
Mickey Streeter, 51, the city clerk, handles the registration and finances for the Christmas Family Project, which is an adopt-a-family program, and the Mayor's Christmas Tree Fund, which gives hams and turkeys to needy families. Neither is part of her job. "I'm in an office that people frequent," Mrs. Streeter said. "So I'm happy to do it." 
Other things occur at her office that happen only in small towns. "Every year at Christmas time," Mrs. Streeter said, "I have a couple of elderly people who come in and ask if anyone needs help with their utility bills. We do gas and utility here, therefore I know who is behind on their bills."
Mrs. Streeter knows both sides of gifts like these. She said that when her husband died of cancer 16 years ago, leaving her with two young children and dizzying bills, "the community did so much for me. They had chili suppers, spaghetti dinners and fund-raisers to help us with medical expenses. So while I can't always financially help people, I can do this." 
Not all volunteer endeavors have worked. Mrs. Russell said she tried to organize a program at her Methodist church called People Helping People, which had been successful in other towns. In the program, a group of people donates talents and services. For example, if someone needs an electrician, a coordinator will see that the service is provided. 
"Well, it didn't go over," Mrs. Russell said, laughing. "The reason was, everybody was already doing all that." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: TIME FOR OTHERS -- Helen Russell, far left, with Joyce Tollman at the senior center in Plattsburg, Mo. (Photo by Reed Hoffmann for The New York Times) Map of Missouri shows the location of Plattsburg.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOLUNTEERS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GENEALOGY (78%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); MAYORS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); MEALS ON WHEELS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (75%); FOOD CHARITIES (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); GARDENING (70%); SHERIFFS (68%); POLITICS (62%) Volunteers; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FFA ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: Anna Bahney

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (71%) MISSOURI, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%) Plattsburg (Mo)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



405 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Giving; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Exploring New Ideas for Making Finances Clearer and Scandals Rarer 

BYLINE:  By JON CHRISTENSEN

 BODY:
EVERYWHERE you turn in the world of philanthropy and nonprofits these days, people are talking about accountability. And it's no wonder. 
 "Public humiliation is quite a motivator," said Kathleen P. Enright, the executive director of Grantmakers for Effective Organizations, at a recent gathering of nonprofit groups and foundations. A chief executive of a major national foundation, Ms. Enright added, had given her that nugget of wisdom. 
 A rash of embarrassing news emanating from the nonprofit world was much on the minds of foundation and nonprofit executives earlier this month at the annual conference of Independent Sector, an industry group that includes 700 foundations and nonprofit organizations among its members.
As part of this industry soul-searching and housecleaning, Independent Sector circulated a draft code of ethics for nonprofit and philanthropic organizations. The code counsels a straight and narrow path through the familiar shoals of ethical misconduct in charities, including lapses in personal and professional integrity, straying from the mission, dishonesty in fund-raising, conflicts of interest among staff members and boards, outlandish executive compensation and mismanagement of financial resources. 
But the code also adds something new: measuring effectiveness. It calls on nonprofits to regularly review their programs and learn from the results. According to many in the industry, that opens up a whole new scope for accountability: judging nonprofits not just by the standards of traditional ethics codes, but also by their results, just like a business. 
But in a survey presented at the conference, Jed Emerson, a senior fellow at the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, and a colleague, Sheila Bonini, found "little consensus on how best to approach the creation of a single, commonly endorsed set of metrics" that can assess the performance on nonfinancial aspects of organizations and funds. 
One of the most promising attempts they discovered was emerging not in the United States, where relatively well-off nonprofit groups and foundations have been debating how to measure their work for many years, but from development work in poorer countries elsewhere. 
A London partnership called Access is beginning to test a global reporting system for nonprofit organizations among a wide variety of groups from India to South Africa to Latin America. The effort is the idea of David Bonbright, the director for civil society programs at the Aga Khan Foundation, the nondenominational international development agency, and Simon Zadek, the chief executive of AccountAbility, a pioneer promoter of standards for businesses to report on corporate social responsibility. 
Their goal is to create a system that will provide credible information about the past performance of NGO's that will allow donors to make plausible predictions about future performances, the kind of credibility that generally accepted accounting principles are supposed to ensure for financial investors in the stock market. Their guiding philosophy is that open, reliable accountability is the only way to increase the market share of global giving that goes to solving important problems in developing countries. 
Currently, only $12 billion to $17 billion of total charitable donations of $240 billion a year in the United States is sent overseas, Mr. Bonbright said.
The Access system provides nonprofit organizations with a standard database in which to report on their governance, finances, management systems, strategies and results of their work, with any external audits of their reports. 
"It's pretty straightforward stuff," Mr. Bonbright said. 
The Nelson Mandela Foundation, one of the first to test the system, is gearing up to use Access to evaluate the effectiveness of projects helping H.I.V./AIDS patients in rural South Africa. John Samuel, the foundation's chief executive, said the foundation, like many, had conducted evaluations of its programs. But Access will help his staff and the groups they work with to understand more quickly the relative impacts of various approaches, ranging from simple educational efforts to support groups and treatment centers. 
"It frees you from the imprisonment of historical evaluation," Mr. Samuel said. "It's not just looking backward, it's looking forward. And being able to predict challenges and difficulties is often more important than what you've done."
The Inter-American Foundation plans to use Access for more than 330 grant recipients supported by a network of 40 corporate foundations across Latin America. These foundations play an increasingly important role in grass-roots work, said Walter Price, the director for corporate outreach at Inter-American.
But they all measure their results in different ways. "You can't add up what people are doing," he said. "They can't communicate with each other. And they can't communicate with the world." 
Mr. Bonbright said that previous attempts to create rating systems for NGO's have foundered on deep-seated suspicions about imposing standards in a field that prides itself on diversity and creativity. 
"There's a kind of historical self-righteousness that sits in nonprofits," he said. " 'We're doing God's workor we're doing good work. So help us!' As soon as you misstep, they say: 'Aha! That's what it's really about. It's an attempt to fit us into a straitjacket.' "
Here in the United States, Grantmakers for Effective Organizations has encountered some of the same skepticism. The group was formed in 1997 as an informal caucus in which foundation people could share ideas about "how we can help nonprofits perform better," Ms. Enright said. "They wisely realized they didn't have a lot of credibility if they didn't look at their own performance." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (92%); PHILANTHROPY (91%); ETHICS (91%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); SCANDALS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (85%); FUNDRAISING (78%); MISCONDUCT (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); ACCOUNTING (50%); MARKET SHARE (50%) Philanthropy; Nonprofit Organizations; Ethics; Philanthropy

ORGANIZATION: INDEPENDENT SECTOR (91%) Independent Sector (Orgn)

PERSON: Jon Christensen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); INDIA (52%); SOUTH AFRICA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



406 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Giving; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: ACCOUNTABILITY; 
They're Mad as Hell, and They're Not Making Donations Anymore

BYLINE:  By ROBERT STRAUSS

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
ROBERT FORD and Ihor Belinsky believe they do their social good on their jobs -- investigating inequities and complaints for the federal Department of Education's Philadelphia office. They used to give outside the office, too, by donating to charities.
 Mr. Ford gave a substantial sum to his church and smaller checks here and there to charities. But when he got divorced several years ago, his habits changed. 
 "The church was my wife's place, so that stopped," he said. "And since I was no longer itemizing deductions, the other donations were no longer write-offs, so I cut back there." With a daughter going to college, he also needed to save.
But for Mr. Belinsky, his cutbacks were a measure of trust, or the lack of it.
"There were these scandals in charities and I was using the write-off at work to contribute," he said. "I decided to investigate whether my money was going to the right place and doing what I wanted, and I just wasn't assured, so I stopped."
Charities and other nonprofit agencies depend on repeat givers for a substantial part of their financial base. But lately, many fund-raisers say, the number of those donors who has fallen off the wagon appears to be growing. 
"There are lots of reasons people stop giving, and they get really heightened in these times," said Kae Dakin, the president of Washington Grantmakers, a clearinghouse for donations to nonprofits. "Since 9/11 and the stock-market downturn, especially in Washington and New York, people have been turned off. 
"There have been scandals at some nonprofits and the big confusion with the American Red Cross about where monies for 9/11 victims would go," Ms. Dakin continued. "And people are scared. They either don't have the money or they are worried about losing their jobs, or their stock portfolios have gone belly-up. So they just stop giving."
In some cases, the money flow stops because of a dispute over policy. The United Way of Southeastern Pennsylvania this year decided to stop financing an inner-city Boy Scout program after the Boy Scouts announced they would not allow homosexuals to be scout leaders. "I don't know how long we have been funding that program, but surely at least 15 or 20 years," said Edward A. Montgomery Jr., vice president for relationship management at the regional United Way. "We have a policy that we don't discriminate, and that goes for sexual orientation."
The policy may have caused the United Way group to lose donors, Mr. Montgomery said, "but you have to be responsible to your goals." 
At Carleton College in Minnesota, officials realized that some alumni might be angered by the school's choice of President Bill Clinton as commencement speaker in 2001.
It upset Thom Gunderson, who had given to the Carleton Alumni Annual fund nearly every year since he graduated in 1972. The sexual scandal that embroiled Mr. Clinton offended Mr. Gunderson, who thought he was not appropriate for the occasion. And his anger about Mr. Clinton started him thinking about other issues at his alma mater.
Carleton has lost nearly a quarter of its endowment in shrinking stock investments. "Unlike other colleges, Carleton decided to run with the bulls and lost a quarter-billion dollars," said Mr. Gunderson, who is a stock analyst for US Bancorp Piper Jaffray in Minneapolis. "Clinton got me going and the quarter-billion clinched it. So I am taking a sabbatical from contributions."
Christopher Clark, the director of the alumni fund, understands the frustration. It is his job to woo back people like Mr. Gunderson.
"A generation ago, a lot of people stopped giving when dormitories went co-ed," he said. "Some stopped because of the Clinton speech. But when you lose someone, you try to reconnect them with classmates and other things they felt good about when they were here. You acknowledge their problem with you and then you do your best personally to get them back."
Nancy Raybin, the president of Raybin Associates, a New York consulting firm for nonprofit groups, said that it was often "the little things" that led to donor dropouts. "The biggest thing can be that a donor hasn't been paid attention to," Ms. Raybin said. "They are called too many times. Maybe an acknowledgment letter spells their name wrong. 'Maybe they don't care about me,' is what they think, and maybe they are right. Donors of $1,000 or $100 can get just as angry as those who give $100,000. A good development staff takes note of these people, too."
For Dr. Hetty Hall of Iowa City, it was too many phone calls. Dr. Hall said she knew all about the good things that Amnesty International did and was happy to give a few hundred dollars to an organization that shared her views.
"But then they started calling and calling," Dr. Hall said. "We might have given $200 one year and now they wanted $500. Then they called and asked for $250. And they called again. I just finally told them to forget it and haven't given again."
Global Impact, a federation of international development organizations, coordinates the Combined Federal Campaign, the salary check-off system for the 330,000 federal employees around Washington. Anthony DeCristofaro, a spokesman, said that participation was about 60 percent among workers in the mid-1990's but down to 43 percent this year.
"I think after you have publicized scandals or economic downturns, you have to do a better job of getting donors back connected with something," Mr. DeCristofaro said. 
William H. Gray III has done a lot of wooing of donors in the last several decades, first as a Congressman from Pennsylvania and now as the president and chief executive of the United Negro College Fund. Mr. Gray said it was difficult to get people to contribute in the first place, but is even harder after they have stopped.
"Sometimes people are just mad at you," he said. "They had a bad experience with someone on your staff or they asked you to solicit them only once and you called them three times. You have to not just let it drop, but find out why they are mad at you. Then you learn to apologize and, more important, do not let it happen again."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nora Krug) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (91%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (84%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ETHICS (78%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); DISMISSALS (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CHARITABLE GIVING (72%); LAYOFFS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); GAYS & LESBIANS (64%) Philanthropy; Ethics

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (54%) Robert Strauss

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



407 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Giving; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: HOLIDAY DRIVES; 
Coats, Cans, Books, Toys, Quilts and More

BYLINE:  By SARA IVRY

 BODY:
 HOLIDAY charitable drives often call to mind drop boxes for canned goods or Santa-clad volunteers ringing bells for spare change on city streets. A little imagination, though, can go a long way to create a local tradition and raise donations for a variety of causes. Here is a roundup of some innovative drives:

ITEM: Books
SPONSOR: Book 'Em
PLACE: Nashville
THE STORY: Book 'Em, a nonprofit organization founded in 1989 to promote literacy among children, donates and distributes new and used books to 25,000 youngsters each year. Over the last eight years, the group has held a fund-raiser called the Emperor's New Clothes Gala Ball, an imaginary event that takes place on a make-believe date, Sept. 32, and has no invited guests. The "event" is a way to encourage donors to send money that would have been spent on a benefit ticket or a tuxedo. A month after the "ball," the organization sets up drop boxes for book donations at stores, churches, offices and schools. On average, they collect about 11,000 books a year. The group hopes to encourage children to read. "If you can't read, you can't do homework, you can't do anything," said Lee Fairbend, a co-founder of Book 'Em. "Even something as simple as how to turn the page in a book, you're not born knowing that."

ITEM: Blessing bag
SPONSOR: Bowery Mission
PLACE: New York City
THE STORY: Every Thanksgiving, the Bowery Mission, a charity that has been caring for alcoholic and derelict men since 1879, prepares about 130 turkeys, 1,500 pounds of potatoes and 80 gallons of gravy for the 1,800 dinners it offers the homeless at three sites in Manhattan, Brooklyn and the Bronx. This year, mission guests will receive a "blessing bag," provided by the Boy Scouts of America, Atari, the Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation, church groups and holiday volunteers, with nonperishable food items, hats and gloves and toiletries. "Thanksgiving is our first introduction to a lot of our guests -- they're coming hungry and alone," said Glenn McKinney, the mission's development director. "Blessing bags may seem a little simple, but it's an opportunity to say, 'There's more here for you if you want it.' "

ITEM: Quilts
SPONSOR: Canyon Quilters
PLACE: San Diego
THE STORY: Last March, when Sandi Delman became the chairwoman of Canyon Quilters, a local guild, she had an agenda: to increase the number of quilts the group donates to Project Linus, a nonprofit organization in Bloomington, Ill., that has given away more than 650,000 quilts and blankets to sick or traumatized children in the United States and abroad. Since 2000, the guild has donated about 150 handmade quilts a year to Project Linus, named for the boy in the comic strip "Peanuts," who balked at the notion of giving up his security blanket. This year, Canyon Quilters will be sending more than 200 quilts, including some with Christmas patterns.

ITEM: Men's coats
SPONSOR: Hands on Charlotte
PLACE: Charlotte, N.C.
THE STORY: For the last decade, Hands on Charlotte, a nonprofit volunteer service founded in 1991, has held an annual coat drive. The drive, which begins Oct. 20 and ends on Thanksgiving, has collected nearly 40,000 coats since its inception. Roughly 100 local banks, businesses, churches and schools volunteer as drop points for donations. This year, the group has made a plea for men's coats, because men tend to buy fewer coats than women, said the organization's director, Rochelle Brown. And the city's homeless male population exceeds that of women and children.

ITEM: Decorated Christmas trees
SPONSOR: Hope House
PLACE: Fredericksburg, Va.
THE STORY: For the last six years, Hope House, a transitional home for women and children that offers long-term shelter for up to 13 families, has been the host of a silent auction called a Festival of Trees, which starts in late November and ends in early December. The items up for bid are professionally decorated wreaths and trees provided by businesses and clubs. Most of the trees are made of artificial materials and available in all sizes. Proceeds from the bids, which rise in five-dollar increments and do not exceed $300, subsidize expenses for the home. Last year's bidding netted $30,000 for 80 trees. So far this year, more than 80 items have been promised for the auction, which starts Nov. 25.

ITEM: Toys
SPONSOR: The Christmas Bureau
PLACE: Plattsburgh, N.Y.
THE STORY: Nine years ago, the Christmas Bureau, a volunteer service group that distributes toys to children at Christmas, changed its focus: it decided to provide new toys instead of refurbished ones. In the past, the old toys were repaired by inmates at two local prisons -- in Clinton, N.Y., and Altona, N.Y. But the shifted focus did not slow down that collaboration. Now, the inmates make new toys -- doll cribs, carriages and rocking horses -- from scratch. Their contribution is about a quarter of the gifts the bureau gives away each year to about 2,500 young residents of Clinton County, in northern New York State. The rest of the gifts are bought by the bureau with monetary donations or are in-kind donations from businesses, fraternal organizations and other groups, including bicycles that are refurbished year-round by one volunteer. In addition to toys, the bureau gives each family a voucher to buy food for a holiday meal.

ITEM: Gifts
SPONSOR: The Santa Claus Girls
PLACE: Grand Rapids, Mich.
THE STORY: In November 1908, Adriana Van Doorn, a Sunday-school teacher, organized nine women to start a gift-giving program for local children. Calling themselves the Santa Claus Girls, they collected donations totaling $199.01, which they used to create 473 gift packages containing fruit, clothes, candy, toys and books. Since then, the scope of the program has ballooned. Volunteers now raise more than $175,000 a year and give presents to more than 10,000 children countywide. The packages bear each child's name and contain the same items they did nearly a century ago -- minus the fruit -- for delivery the Saturday before Christmas. The volunteers, who include men, solicit names of children through a state agency.

ITEM: Nonperishable food
SPONSOR: America's Second Harvest of Wisconsin
PLACE: Milwaukee
THE STORY: Times are tough for domestic hunger-relief organizations. The sluggish economy has meant fewer corporate donations just when more people need help. America's Second Harvest of Wisconsin, the state's largest soup kitchen and food-bank distributor, has also seen a decline. Founded in 1982, it serves an estimated 300,000 people daily in 36 counties. In anticipation of Thanksgiving, the group has bolstered lagging donations by piggybacking on entertainment events. At a Milwaukee Brewers' fan day in late October, patrons were asked to donate nonperishable food, which resulted in 500 pounds of goods. A similar solicitation occurred at a recent Nascar promotion, where guests were allowed to drive their own cars on the Milwaukee Mile race course if they donated $15 and a canned food item. The event brought in 700 pounds of food. Despite these efforts, Second Harvest's reserves are low.

GRAPHIC: Photos: HANDS ON CHARLOTTE -- Jocelyn Chrisley, left, and Nicole DuFauchard. (Photo by Nell Redmond for The New York Times); GETTING READY -- Bowery Mission workers preparing functional goody bags. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); THANKSGIVING (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); QUILTS & QUILTING (86%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); VOLUNTEERS (78%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (76%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (76%); RELIGION (72%) Philanthropy

COMPANY: PVH CORP (64%)

TICKER: PVH (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BLOOMINGTON, IL, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



408 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Giving; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: MARKETING; 
Selling to Nonprofits Proves Not That Easy

BYLINE:  By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
IN terms of numbers, the nonprofit sector of the economy might look like a golden sales opportunity for almost any business. Nonprofit groups had revenues of $665 billion in 1997 and employed 9.3 percent of all paid workers in the United States in 1998, the last years in which such statistics were gathered by Independent Sector, a Washington clearinghouse for management and policy discussion in the nonprofit world. 
 Not only is the sector big, but when it goes shopping for supplies it usually looks for the same things that a profit-making business looks for, like a product that has a good price and is reliable and easy to use. 
 In reality, the nonprofit world is so fragmented into specialized enterprises that few businesses devote much effort to creating marketing programs aimed at the nonprofit universe. 
"We looked at it as one industry at first," said Robert Leavy, the national leader of the nonprofit practice at Grant Thornton, an accounting and consulting firm that has been expanding its presence in the sector since the 1980's. 
"But if you really want to serve the broad industry, you have to understand the distinctions."
It is true that some issues on which Grant Thornton advises cut across all nonprofit institutions, like policies for directors and conflicts of interest, Mr. Leavy said. But, for example, when Grant Thornton is working for a college or other nonprofit higher education client, many accounting and tax questions grow out of the relationship between schools and students, which is particular to that corner of the nonprofit world. 
The biggest piece of this pie is made up of hospitals, 90 percent of which operate as nonprofit groups, and other health-service providers. Such nonprofits account for just under 50 percent of all nonprofit revenues. But the health sector bears little resemblance to the rest of that world. 
Perhaps the main barrier to selling supplies or products to nonprofit groups in fields like social services and religious, arts and environmental activities is that so many have so little money. Such groups sometimes receive goods that others must routinely pay for through donations.
Some financial-service institutions have separate units that specialize in helping nonprofits manage what money they have. The Merrill Lynch Center for Philanthropy and Nonprofit Management, for example, has 34,000 nonprofits as clients, said David Ratcliffe, its director. Clients also receive advice on fund-raising, board organization and management issues. The unit was formed in 2000, as an outgrowth of its traditional business of serving rich people, many of whom traditionally turn to brokerages for advice in managing their donations to nonprofit groups. 
In the field of technology, there is a growing network of suppliers, many of them also nonprofit groups, that compete with mainstream businesses. TechRocks, for example, is a nonprofit organization in San Francisco that provides other such groups with free software called ebase for managing their e-mail messages, donor lists and data about volunteers, among other things. 
CompuMentor, another San Francisco nonprofit group, operates a consulting service and DiscounTech, a Web-based marketplace for donated and discounted software and hardware available to nonprofits from companies like Microsoft, Cisco and Intuit. TechFoundation, in Cambridge, Mass., provides a similar service with TechMarketplace. 
CompuMentor has joined NPower, a new Microsoft-backed nonprofit in Seattle that is setting up affiliates in numerous cities to help nonprofits use and manage technology better. 
But most of these efforts, as well as many direct corporate discount programs, are restricted to nonprofits that are eligible to receive deductible donations under Section 501(c)3 of the tax code. 
Those excluded include AARP, the National Rifle Association and environmental groups that lobby and engage in other political activities.
"We get standard discounts for buying in volume, but we don't receive price breaks like other nonprofits because we don't qualify for tax deductions," said Lou Barnes, the chief financial executive of the Sierra Club. 
Volume buying is not the only way to get a discount from a vendor. Nonprofit groups can sometimes save money by agreeing to endorse a product. But some nonprofits, including the Sierra Club, have strict rules against allowing their names to be used commercially.
Although nonprofits look closely at costs, social values can also play a role in doing business with nonprofits. Mr. Barnes said that the Sierra Club, which has 550 employees based mostly in San Francisco and Washington, buys its office supplies from Give Something Back, a 12-year-old company in Oakland, Calif., that donates 92 percent of its after-tax profits to charities. 
"We were sold on the environmental quality of their products, which have a high recycled content, and how they distribute profits," Mr. Barnes said. "They are not the cheapest, but they are competitive." 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 24, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in the special Giving section last Monday about businesses that sell to nonprofits referred incorrectly to TechRocks, a nonprofit organization that developed a software product called ebase. Ebase is now distributed by Groundspring.org, no longer TechRocks.
The article also misstated the current relationship between Npower and CompuMentor, nonprofits that provide technology support to other charities. CompuMentor ceased being the San Francisco affiliate of Npower in April, though the two groups are exploring a nationwide affiliation agreement. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (91%); FUNDRAISING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CHARITIES (78%); HEALTH CARE (76%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (67%); PHILANTHROPY (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (65%) Nonprofit Organizations; Marketing and Merchandising

COMPANY: GRANT THORNTON INTERNATIONAL LTD (83%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INDEPENDENT SECTOR (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (83%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: Barnaby J Feder

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



409 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Giving; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: COPING; 
Rising Demand Squeezes Food Banks

BYLINE:  By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

DATELINE: ROCHESTER 

 BODY:
EVERY day, tractor-trailer rigs pull up to the loading dock of an old paper warehouse on the bank of the Genesee River here and unload donated food. The sturdy concrete warehouse was a donation itself, to Foodlink, a nonprofit wholesaler that distributes about six million pounds of food each year to soup kitchens, food pantries and meals-on-wheels programs in the Finger Lakes region of western New York.
 In the last decade, government has shifted onto charities the job of making food available to the poor, unemployed, disabled and housebound. Foodlink is one of 230 nonprofit food banks that are vital to a large portion of Americans who might otherwise go hungry. 
 From 1977 to 1997, one in four Americans at some point received federal food stamps, Labor Department studies show, as millions of people slipped in and out of poverty depending on the strength of the job market, changes in marital status and other conditions. Similar numbers depend on soup kitchens, food pantries and other charitable organizations for food, especially when jobs are scarce. 
Food banks are now caught in a financial vise, squeezed on one side by rising demand for food, especially from the long-term unemployed, and on the other side by shrinking donations from food manufacturers and cuts in federal spending. At the same time, food banks face a growing demand for cash. They must buy about a third of the food they distribute, mostly items that fill gaps between what is donated and what is needed to prepare balanced meals. And food banks have their own operating expenses, from maintaining refrigeration rooms to fueling trucks and vans that deliver groceries to charities. 
Janet Poppendieck, a professor of sociology at Hunter College who has studied food banks and nutrition among the poor, said that "there is a built-in squeeze on food banks, a constant downward pressure on supplies, which means they have to work harder and harder to get the same level of supply."
She compared it with "extracting oil from a declining field where you have to do more and more to get less and less out."
Tom Ferraro, the executive director of Foodlink since he founded it in 1976, said that "the meat and potatoes for food banks used to be the waste and mistakes of production."
"Too much oregano in the spaghetti sauce, or too little, and we would be offered tractor-trailer load after tractor-trailer load of the stuff that tasted fine, was perfectly nutritious, but did not meet the manufacturers' standards," he said.
"Back then there were tons of boxes of cereals with the name'General Mills' printed upside down or some other mistake that had nothing to do with nutrition," Mr. Ferraro said. "Food banks would trade everything back and forth so we had some balance between what the manufacturers in our area produced. That was food banking in the early days and it was easy."
Then corporations embraced ideas like Total Quality Management, resulting in improved production controls at food factories, which have benefited consumers with lower prices and investors with higher profits, but have taken a toll on donations to food banks. 
"Fewer production mistakes have made it harder for food banks to sustain themselves," Mr. Ferraro said. "The only part of the food industry that has not redone its production processes is the cereals business, where a $4 box of cereal has 5-cents worth of food in it, so there is no point in replacing even pre-World War II machinery if it still works."
Foodlink and other food banks are nonprofit wholesalers in the middle of a three-tier system. Above them is America's Second Harvest, a Chicago-based charity that coordinates requests to food manufacturers and other big suppliers and directs donations from them to food banks. The bottom tier is composed of thousands of soup kitchens, pantries, churches and other organizations that either hand out food or serve meals. 
Last year, Foodlink distributed six million pounds of food valued at $6.9 million. It also raised $2.7 million in cash, a chunk of it through an annual promotion with the Wegmans supermarket chain. Of $9.8 million in total expenses, management cost Foodlink $209,000 and fund-raising an additional $187,000, which together amounted to 4 percent of total expenses. 
On the demand side, America's working-age population grew more than 3 percent in the last three years, while the number of jobs shrank 2 percent, creating a gap of more than six million jobs. One in five of the unemployed has been jobless for more than six months, Labor Department data show.
Over the last three decades, incomes for those at the bottom have fallen in real terms. The poorest fifth of families averaged $271 a week in income last year, according to the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research organization in Washington whose data on the working poor are widely respected.
One result of reduced incomes can be seen in New York City, where a third of the population lives below or only modestly above the poverty line. The number of food pantries and kitchens citywide has grown to nearly 1,000 from 35 in 1983.
The way government poverty statistics are reported understates the scope of the problem, said J. Larry Brown, who runs the Center on Hunger and Poverty at Brandeis University's Heller School for Social Policy and Management.
"If the official figures show that 34 million people are poor all year," Dr. Brown said, "the question to ask is how many families are so poor that their incomes fall below the poverty line one month during the year. When you ask the question that way, the number rises to 74 million people, or one of every four Americans."
The first food bank is widely attributed to John van Hengel, a commodities trader who retired to Arizona in the mid-60's and volunteered at a soup kitchen. He started soliciting donations of food, applying his knowledge of commodities in a state where warm weather allows nearly year-round farming with three annual crops from the same field. Van Hengel was so successful that a warehouse was needed to take in the donated food, much of which was passed on to other soup kitchens and food pantries.
By 1976, after others copied van Hengel's warehouse idea, the federal government gave grants to start more food banks. Congress also passed a tax incentive in 1976, allowing manufacturers to deduct the cost of goods they donated and a portion of the profit they would have earned, which increased donations for a time. 
A Carter-era change in the food stamps program has also had a big effect on the poor in ways that have unintentionally caused many people to run out of food at the end of each month.
For years, advocates for the poor fought the Agriculture Department's policy that required people to buy the stamps, paying, say, $30 to get food stamps worth $100. The Carter administration changed the program so that those eligible could get $70 worth of stamps without paying any cash.
"People kept that $30 sacrosanct," Mr. Ferraro said, "because they needed it to get the extra $70 worth of food. But once you could get $70 worth of food stamps for nothing, then that $30 was no longer sacrosanct, and it was sometimes spent on some other pressing needs. And that was when we started seeing this phenomenon of people running out of food before the end of the month because they had $70 worth of food when they needed $100."
Professor Poppendieck sees other forces at work that push people toward food pantries and soup kitchens.
"I do believe many consumers are profoundly disempowered by not having learned basic food-preparation skills," she said, "so they are at the mercy of a market that peppers them with advertisements for high-value-added foods which have been extensively processed."
In addition, she said, many neighborhoods, urban and rural, do not have access to supermarkets. "If you must do your grocery shopping at the convenience store on the highway or the neighborhood bodega," she said, "you are paying an exaggerated price for a limited supply in terms of nutrition." 
So, she said, the lack of access to supermarket prices and weak food-preparation skills, combined with falling incomes, have resulted in a growing demand for the food banks and the soup kitchens and pantries they supply.

GRAPHIC: Photos: SORTING OUT -- Tom Ferraro, above, who runs Foodlink, a nonprofit wholesaler, says better production controls have cut donations from supermarkets. Dan Grassel, left, of Foodlink weighs boxes of donated food. (Photographs by Max Schulte for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (97%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (91%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); MEALS ON WHEELS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); LAKES (73%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); SOCIOLOGY (68%); FOOD MFG (65%); FOOD STAMPS (54%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Food; Philanthropy; Soup Kitchens; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Food

COMPANY: GENERAL MILLS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Foodlink (Nonprofit Wholesaler)

TICKER: GIS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (50%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (50%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (50%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (50%)

PERSON: David Cay Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State; United States

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



410 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Giving; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: VOLUNTEERING; 
This Mayor's a Workhorse, and She Does It for Nothing

BYLINE:  By SARAH KERSHAW

DATELINE: SALEM, Ore. 

 BODY:
AT 60, Janet Taylor was contemplating retirement. But there was the nagging question of what she could do for Salem, the city she describes as her "salvation." 
 Salem is the city where Mrs. Taylor's mother, who was raising her four children alone, nearly deaf and suffering from other health problems that made it difficult for her to work, moved the family in 1956. It was then a small town, the slow-moving Oregon state capital in the Willamette River Valley. 
 The children, born in Portland, 47 miles north of here, were raised on welfare in a blue-collar neighborhood in northeast Salem. Which is all the more reason Mrs. Taylor still sounds awed and tickled when she talks about being the new mayor of Salem.
"I feel like this is really, truly a way that maybe I can give some good back again," said Mrs. Taylor, who won the mayoral primary in May 2002 with such a high percentage of the vote, 63 percent, that she was declared the winner and allowed, under Oregon law, to bypass the general election, although she did not take office until last January. 
"When people say to me, 'I can't believe you're doing it,' I say, 'I can't believe that I wouldn't have tried,' " she said. "Truthfully, I needed to say thank you."
When the previous mayor decided not to run, Mrs. Taylor, who is 61, received a lot of encouragement to jump into the race. She had been managing a successful metal roofing company that she and her husband, Duane, started in the early 1980's, but had been involved in Salem politics, first through her local neighborhood association, and later as the chairwoman of the board of Salem's economic development corporation. She was also vice president of the Chamber of Commerce. All these positions provided her with a raw look at an economically depressed city, she said, that was in dire need of new, pro-business leadership. 
But she was also discouraged from running -- by Duane, for one, who had retired in 1995 -- and other friends and associates who advised her that becoming mayor of Salem, the second largest city in Oregon with a population of 142,000, when the city was struggling would wear her out. 
"Knowing her as a business associate and as a friend, I told her I thought she should be enjoying the fruits of her labor," said Larry Glassock, the president of the Strategic Economic Development Corporation of the mid-Willamette Valley, the board of which Mrs. Taylor was chairwoman. "Being mayor was going to interfere with that. We had a heart-to-heart and I had her convinced for about 30 days."
Salem has a long history of volunteerism. Dozens clean the parks, staff the libraries and patrol the city's neighborhoods, and volunteerism is an ethic that Mrs. Taylor, as mayor, often mentions. So it was fitting, she said, that she would take on the challenge for no compensation. Technically, the job pays $274 a month, but Mrs. Taylor declined the stipend, saying she thought the money could go to better uses. 
In July, six months after she took office, the Taylors sold their metal roofing business, Taylor Metal Products. Although they are still receiving some income from it, Mrs. Taylor is making a lot less money. 
In Salem, the city manager, who draws a salary, runs the daily operations, and the mayor and city councilors set policy. The job of mayor could, potentially, be mostly ceremonious, presiding over the Monday night City Council meetings and attending the occasional ribbon cutting or groundbreaking. 
But Mrs. Taylor, who has the demeanor of a chipper school principal and often describes things, particularly the various new development projects she has spearheaded in Salem, as just wonderful, has made her tenure as hands-on as possible. She works 40 to 50 hours a week and has already declared she will run for a second two-year term. She had no plans to become a career politician at the outset, she said, but she was not ruling out running for other offices later on.
"If you'd asked me three or four months ago, I would have said no," Mrs. Taylor said, referring to the possibility of making a career of politics. "But I think I'd like to see what opportunities are there and make that assessment down the road."
She said the two-year mayoral term seemed too short, since she took office. "I'd like to accomplish some things here before I make any decisions. It was never about going into politics, it was that I wanted to head this ship in a positive direction and change the political climate."
Mrs. Taylor is a registered Republican, although she was a Democrat for 20 years, and said she defied political pigeonholing. 
Her days are a whirl of activity, usually beginning by 7:30 with meetings -- on what to do about the huge waste-water fees being imposed on Salem by the federal government, or about the silicon-chip company that is threatening to leave town with hundreds of jobs because it can receive much better tax breaks in Ohio. 
What Mrs. Taylor says she loves about the job are the little and big victories that make her feel that she is making a difference. For instance, the $32 million convention center downtown, which the city was planning to build for 40 years, was stalled until last summer, when Mrs. Taylor and other city officials got involved and helped cut through the red tape. Construction began in August and the center is scheduled for completion in 2005.
Then there was the Puentes Brothers tortilla factory, whose owner, George Puentes, was so frustrated by the city bureaucracy standing between him and a new plant that he was also planning to leave Salem.
But Mr. Puentes, who knew Mrs. Taylor as a member of the Chamber of Commerce, was receptive to her hard selling of Salem, and decided he would stay. And Mrs. Taylor promised him she would help streamline the permit process for building a new tortilla factory. He employs 110 people and the city, Mrs. Taylor said, could ill afford to lose those jobs.
"We knew we had to grow, but we weren't going to do it blindly," Mr. Puentes said, during a recent tour with Mrs. Taylor of the new plant, which opened in October in the northeast part of the city. "And then Janet got elected and I said, 'I think we'll stay.' "
Mrs. Taylor smiled and said: "Thank you, George. I really appreciate it."
Mrs. Taylor acknowledged that she was not entirely prepared for the pressure-cooker atmosphere that comes with being mayor of a city plagued by unemployment, fiercely fighting to keep businesses, create new jobs and revitalize its slowly recovering historic downtown district. 
"People say I'm thriving on it, that it hasenergized me," Mrs. Taylor said. "Both are true. It has challenged me at times. It has exhausted me. But it feels so wonderful to me, it truly does."

GRAPHIC: Photos: 2 P.M. -- Mayor Taylor meets with Larry Glassock, an economic developer in Salem, Ore.; 2:45 P.M. -- At a local printing plant, the mayor gets a look at what's just off the presses.; 3:30 P.M. -- Touring the new Puentes Brothers factory, another project she helped.; 11:30 A.M. -- Mrs. Taylor with Greg Rieder, technical director of the Elsinore Theater.; 11 A.M. -- Mayor Taylor confers with James Strauch, above, who supervises construction of the Salem Oregon Conference Center; riding the city's riverfront carousel, right. (Photographs by Julie Keefe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); SINGLE PARENTS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (62%) Volunteers; Mayors; Politics and Government

PERSON: Janet (Mayor) Taylor; Sarah Kershaw

GEOGRAPHIC: SALEM, OR, USA (98%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Salem (Ore)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



411 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; Giving; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: GRASS ROOTS; 
Speaking Up for Fishermen As Rules Cloud Their Future

BYLINE:  By DULCIE LEIMBACH

 BODY:
 NAME: Shore Support, New Bedford, Mass.

FOUNDED: In 1996 by Deb Shrader, a scalloper's wife.

MISSION: To create a "voice for the rank and file of fishermen and their families" regarding new restrictions in the last decade on fishing off New England, Mrs. Shrader said. (In 1994, major regulations restricted fishermen to when, where and how they fished.)

FINANCING: Sailors' Snug Harbor of Boston and the Island Foundation, about $15,000; in addition, the Heinz Family Philanthropies, Haymarket People's Fund and United Way Community Building mini-grant program.

THE STORY: Concerned about her husband's future, Mrs. Shrader first tried organizing other wives, to little avail. She then became a paralegal to understand the new laws and worked with Snug Harbor on entrepreneurial training for fishermen and their families. Learning how nonprofits operate, she set up Shore Support, which became part of the Community Economic Development Center of Southeastern Massachusetts.
Although the regulations have been tinkered with since 1994, the National Marine Fisheries Service reduced the number of days fishermen could fish last year, after a court case brought by environmentalists who say the fish population needs more time to rebound and the laws restricting fishing need to be met more fully. The rules will be tightened further in May, when Amendment 13 takes effect, specifically influencing those who catch bottom-dwellers: cod, haddock and several kinds of flounder.
Despite the restrictions, New Bedford was ranked first this year by the Commerce Department as the nation's most valuable fishing port. Fishermen there caught $169 million worth of fish in 2002.
Yet Mrs. Shrader remains worried about the fishermen. The unemployment rate in New Bedford was 9.4 percent in September. "My biggest concern is the economic effects this amendment will have," she said. "We're looking at 3,000 jobs lost in our region. In New Bedford alone, it will be about 800 to 1,000 jobs."
Shore Support and the University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth, are working on a report of the economic conditions of fleets before and after days at sea, studying earnings and loss of jobs from the regulations. "We're going boat to boat," Mrs. Shrader said. 
With the information they gather, the groups will go to the New England Fishery Management Council, a federal office that manages fishing within the 200-mile limit off the New England coast, to shed light on what she calls "damages being done on the fishing-dependent families."
"Fishermen are used to working long, hard hours," Mrs. Shrader said. "But fishing is in their hearts. When these jobs are lost, what they stand for is taken away." DULCIE LEIMBACH

GRAPHIC: Photo: CONCERNED -- Deb Shrader worries that restrictions will lead to more lost fishing jobs. (Photo by Stew Milne for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); FISHES (90%); FAMILY (90%); FISHERIES (90%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); HARBORS & PORTS (71%); PARALEGALS (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (66%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Fishing, Commercial; Conservation of Resources; Philanthropy

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%) Shore Support (Orgn)

PERSON: Deb Shrader; Dulcie Leimbach

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW BEDFORD, MA, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New England States (US)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



412 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Giving; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1507 words

HEADLINE: CORPORATIONS; 
Fitting Gifts to the Business: Restaurant, Meet Food Bank

BYLINE:  By FRAN HAWTHORNE

 BODY:
THE Mandarin Oriental, Manhattan's newest hotel, does not have much in common with a soup kitchen. It boasts views of Central Park, a spa with what it calls Asian-based rituals and a butler on every floor. Rooms start at $600 a night, and its restaurant serves trendy Japanese-French cuisine. But the Mandarin Oriental has a close tie, in fact, with the soup kitchen business because it gives both leftover food from its catering events and nearly all of its cash donations to City Harvest.
 The charity, which distributes food to 800 soup kitchens, homeless shelters, centers for the aged and other groups, will also receive the $100,000 to $150,000 that the Mandarin Oriental hopes to raise in December from an auction to celebrate its opening in the new Time Warner Center on Columbus Circle. And the Mandarin Oriental will contribute hotel-room packages when City Harvest holds its own auctions. 
 The reason for focusing on just a single charity is simple. "It's a lot easier to make a bigger impact with one charity," said Kristin Ruble, the hotel's director of sales and marketing. 
Many other businesses have decided to focus their generosity on just a handful of carefully selected charities rather than giving to every good cause that comes knocking. It is a straightforward calculation, these companies say: channeling money into fewer but larger gifts is more efficient and effective. Besides, it makes the company look better, especially in this era of corporate scandals.
"Companies are asking, 'How can we be sure scarce resources deliver some impact?' " said Bradley Googins, the executive director of the Center for Corporate Citizenship at Boston College, which educates business managers about civic involvement. "There is a tendency to give larger grants to fewer organizations, so they can get even more bang for the buck."
There are other motivations as well. A program that makes fewer donations is easier to administer. For some companies, giving to one charity can tie in with a broader effort to use their philanthropy to increase business. And in the case of a merger between companies, this approach can help streamline the companies' charitable programs. That is what happened with the alliance of Time Warner and America Online.
No one has numbers on how widespread this practice is, but experts in corporate philanthropy say that in the last five years, it has been growing among companies of all types and sizes. The charities that are picked are known as charities of choice, signature projects or focus philanthropy. Because large companies give so much money away, however, they can end up with a few dozen charities of choice.
To pare their lists down from many to few, companies often use the same tactics they use in their core business. The Deutsche Bank Americas Foundation, which is based in New York City, sent out requests for proposals, or R.F.P.'s, in 2002 and 2003, inviting charities to apply for financing for projects that would use the arts to spur community development and create jobs in the city. 
The applications asked contenders to provide, among other things, a budget for the grant, a list of their directors, resumes of the staff members who would work on the project, their most recent audited financial statement and detailed goals of the project. Of the 99 groups that responded to the requests, Deutsche Bank selected 19 to receive a total $1.65 million over two years.
The foundation used to give grants of $15,000 each, on average, to 75 arts and community development groups. Now it helps 45, with grants averaging $50,000 to $75,000 apiece.
One of those groups is the Bronx Council on the Arts, which is getting $75,000 a year for two years. Among other things, it set up a free trolley to shuttle visitors to the art gallery at Hostos Community College and other arts attractions in the Bronx. The aim of the trolley, which runs only on the first Wednesday of each month, is to help spur the borough's economy by increasing tourism.
When Theresa Fay-Bustillos became the executive director of the Levi Strauss Foundation in 2000, she began a review of its $13 million annual donation program. She went through all the grants that had been made in the last five years, categorizing them by size and type. Her conclusion: "We were spreading our resources around to lots of different agencies, but you didn't see any emphasis in our work." 
Today, Levi Strauss restricts its grants to programs that help women and youths in three areas: education, economic development and preventing the spread of H.I.V. and AIDS. To refine its selection even further, Ms. Fay-Bustillos said: "We're looking for grantees that have a longer-term social change agenda. Also, we want organizations that emphasize collaborating." The number of grants the company has made dropped 57 percent from 2001 through October 2003, though more grants are likely to be made by the year's end. 
Before choosing City Harvest, Ms. Ruble of the Mandarin Oriental said that she had considered a couple dozen major organizations in a range of fields, including the arts and the environment. Six groups were interviewed in depth. She finally homed in on City Harvest because it was the only one specializing in food, and Mandarin Oriental's 250-room hotel includes the Asiate restaurant. "We felt it was an area where the hotel could make a strong impact," she said. 
City Harvest's local roots were also important. As Ms. Ruble put it, "We wanted to be part of the community and not be a global charity."
The downside of this more focused approach is having to say no to worthwhile causes. For Deutsche Bank and Levi Strauss, this has meant not renewing grants to groups they had helped for years. 
"It always is tough," said Gary Hattem, the president of the Deutsche Bank Americas Foundation. "We have begun to explain to organizations that we are doing it more through R.F.P.'s. You can defend that kind of grant-making as being open and transparent, rather than who runs into you at a party, or who has access to you." 
Levi Strauss is giving severance grants of $20,000 to $100,000 to about a third of the groups it will no longer donate to as the grants expire.
Many companies do not agree with this new method of giving. The Principal Financial Group, an investment management firm based in Des Moines, contributes $5 million to $6 million a year to about 150 organizations, mostly to improve the quality of life in the 12 cities where the company has a sizable presence. It plans to keep doing so. "One or two groups won't meet the needs of all our employees," said Libby Jacobs, the director for community relations at the company.
The new strategy also translates into tougher competition among charities. But Julia A. Erickson, City Harvest's executive director, played down any anxiety she might have felt as she awaited Mandarin Oriental's decision. "There's always that element where we cross our fingers and hope for the best," she said. "But we looked at it as a fantastic opportunity to show off what we've been able to accomplish." 

Some Giving Takes The Personal Touch
EVEN as some companies try to select their philanthropies according to their business principles, others still do it the old-fashioned way, by supporting the chief executive's favorite charities.
Take the example of the Ruder Finn Group, a public relations firm. David Finn, its chairman and a co-founder, is on the boards of the Academy of American Poets and Cedar Crest College in Allentown, Pa., as well as a friend of Kofi Annan, the United Nations secretary general. 
So, it is not surprising that Ruder Finn has contributed money, printing help and design work to the Poets Academy and to Cedar Crest. It has also published a book of Mr. Annan's acceptance speech for the 2001 Nobel Peace Prize, which he shared with the United Nations. 
Mr. Finn estimates that his company donates an amount equal to 10 percent of its billings each year in cash and pro bono work to at least a dozen philanthropic causes. Most of these are organizations that Ruder Finn's senior managers are actively interested in.
"I feel we as a firm should support things that we feel deeply about as individuals," Mr. Finn said. 
In New York, some executives say, corporations tend to support one another's charities. "We all go around in circles," said Jeffrey R. Gural, the chairman of Newmark & Company, a large real estate brokerage firm.
Mr. Gural will ask other executives to pony up for his special causes. For instance, he is president of the Starlight Children's Foundation, which tries to grant wishes to youngsters who have serious or terminal illnesses. In return, he will give to the other executives' charities.
Mr. Gural seemed surprised to be asked why Newmark donates to his personal philanthropic interests. "Why would I be active on a board and not have my company support it financially?" he said.
Far from being pruned, these personal lists tend to grow. "Different members of the firm come in with different interests," Mr. Finn said.
 FRAN HAWTHORNE

GRAPHIC: Photos: CLANG -- With money from Deutsche Bank, the Bronx Council on the Arts runs a trolley to galleries, including the one at Hostos Community College, top. (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times); FOOD PARTNERSHIP -- Julia A. Erickson, executive director of City Harvest, with Noriyuki Sugie, the chef de cuisine of Asiate, in the new Mandarin Oriental hotel in New York. (Photo by Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (90%); CHARITIES (90%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); FOUNDATIONS (87%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (76%); CORPORATE GIVING (76%); MERGERS (75%); CATERING SERVICES (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (70%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (55%); HOMELESSNESS (55%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (50%); SCANDALS (50%) Philanthropy; Corporations

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (91%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); AOL INC (56%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); AOL (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: Fran Hawthorne

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



413 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Giving; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: COMMUNITY ICON; 
Clarifying What Y.M.C.A. Stands For

BYLINE:  By JOANNA L. KROTZ

 BODY:
MENTION the Y.M.C.A. and everyone has a different notion of what it is all about.
 In places like Greenwich, Conn., where well-heeled matrons show up for weekly bridge games, and in downtown Washington, where hard-charging professionals pour in at lunchtime to lift weights in sports rooms filled with the latest gear, the Y is viewed as a hangout for the elite. 
 In some neighborhoods in New York City and Seattle, where in recent years local branches have sold off suddenly prime real estate, the Y.M.C.A. is viewed as indifferent to the concerns of neighborhood residents and urban preservationists. It has also been the object of lawsuits by several commercial health clubs that claimed the Y uses its tax-exempt status to compete unfairly in the luxury health-club business.
Kenneth L. Gladish, the national executive director of the Y.M.C.A., is aware of these perceptions, and he considers them grossly unfair. 
Mr. Gladish acknowledges the "swim and gym" reputation, but said it was a misconception. The Y's policy, he points out, is that no one is turned away because of an inability to pay. There are discounted, or free, memberships that total about $65 million a year. And he states correctly that the Y is one of the largest providers in the country of day-care services and after-school programs for working and homeless families.
Mr. Gladish said that the mission of the Y -- the nation's largest nonprofit with more than 2,500 branches serving 10,000 communities -- remains the same, to nurture youngsters. "Our kids in America are challenged in getting access to a sustained, caring adult presence in their lives," he said. "This is not a matter of race, economic class or geographic boundaries."
He added: "Is it okay for Y's to build and operate in middle-class, affluent communities, just as we operate and provide support in more disadvantaged communities? The answer is yes. And it's the right thing to do. And we've done it for 150 years."
Despite its religious origin and name, the Young Men's Christian Association (which has no connection to the Young Women's Christian Association or the Young Men's Hebrew Association) has a secular mission. It now serves more than 18 million Americans, half of them under age 18, and wields more social services' spending power than many small nations. In addition to its child-care and teenage programs, the Y.M.C.A. is also the largest provider of single-occupancy rooms, about 17,000, offering one of the few affordable places to live for people moving off welfare or out of homeless shelters. 
The Y's $4.2 billion in annual income is bolstered by government grants and corporate donations. But nearly 70 cents of every dollar comes from its own programs and membership fees. 
The slowed economy has affected some branches more than others. "Two or three years ago, the vast majority of the Y's were on the favorable side," in terms of their finances, Mr. Gladish said. "Now, depending on the marketplace, the Y's are suffering along with the local economy. Some are experiencing zero growth or even have lost some of their annual contributions or income andsome have sustained growth and development."
The stock market's decline has also produced problems. "Our income from endowments, from the equity markets, has been substantially decreased, although the Y's are not heavily endowed organizations," Mr. Gladish said. Instead, branches depend on annual operations and contributions, he said. The endowment of the Y's national organization -- called the Y.M.C.A. of the U.S.A. -- is now about $78 million, a decrease of 5 percent as of 2002.
Though chartered by the national organization, every Y is locally managed, governed and financed and free to adapt to community needs. After 9/11, for example, New York's Vanderbilt Branch on East 47th Street saw a drop in tourist bookings, so it renovated its 400 rooms of bunk beds and shared baths into offices and student housing.
Mr. Gladish has made several moves to support this emphasis on community, by making more resources available to the branches, and by improving access to professional training for the Y's local staff and half a million volunteers. 
His aim over the next few years is to make the independent Y's more consistent with one another without dismantling the autonomy of each branch. And he has begun a major marketing effort to raise the organization's national profile.
The Y.M.C.A. has signed a $5 million contract with the advertising agency BBDO Chicago to create a campaign that includes television commercials featuring John Glenn and the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. as young members. It has also forged a "charity of choice" alliance with Sports Illustrated and Sports Illustrated for Kids magazines, and is signing "cause marketing" contracts for lucrative partnerships with companies like J. C. Penney, Kimberly-Clark and PepsiCo, which will reap benefits from having their corporate identities associated with Y programs. The J. C. Penney after-school program is a five-year, $16 million grant.
Trent Stamp, the executive director of Charity Navigator, a group in Mahwah, N.J., that analyzes the finances of charities, calls the marketing campaign extremely savvy.
"There's great value in tying the organization together so that the success of the suburban fitness centers feeds added contributions or added effects for the inner cities," he said.
Brooke W. Mahoney, the executive director of the Volunteer Consulting Group, a company in New York that helps nonprofit boards find trustees, said the Y.M.C.A. was going through an evolution. "It is figuring out how to work smart, asking questions like, 'How do we make someone who walks into a Y in Spokane have the same experience as someone in Atlanta?' "
Jim Everett, the chief executive of the Treasure Valley Y.M.C.A. in Boise, Idaho, said he had mixed emotions about the ad campaign and corporate sponsors. "The Y probably needs to be out there, and its legacy may be underappreciated," he said. "But philanthropy is more about doing than talking about doing."
The Treasure Valley Y recently received a $1 million donation from the family, all members, of J. R. Simplot, who founded an agribusiness empire. "Here's a family worth $1.4 billion who are changing in the locker room alongside kids from the homeless shelter," Mr. Everett said. "There's no other place that offers such a wide spectrum of society, especially for kids."
A problem that remains is the Y.M.C.A.'s name. The Young Men's Christian Association is open to all. But many are either confused or put off by the seeming religious connection. The Y was founded on Protestant evangelical values; its mission statement says it intends to "put Christian principles into practice." The organization lets it go at that.
More complicated are the issues of serving people who supposedly are not in need, or of applying sophisticated business practices to support charitable causes.
"Philosophically, there's never been a needs test used to qualify an organization as a charity," Mr. Gladish said, in response to such criticism. "There are nonprofit theaters, hospitals and TV programming. It's not about the activity, it's about how it's done."
He said that selling off real estate, as some branches have done, "isn't a fund-raising tool." The money brought in by those sales, he said, was used to pay for upgrades or build new quarters. In New York, the McBurney Y.M.C.A. on West 23rd Street was sold to a developer and is being converted into condominiums. The second building on the site was sold to a nonprofit group, which builds housing for former homeless people and foster children. 
It was part of a decision, Mr. Gladish said, "to stay fully vested in the neighborhood while dealing with a deeply distressed and very ancient building." The new McBurney Y, a $35 million center, reopened on West 14th Street last December.
Ms. Mahoney of the Volunteer Consulting Group said that such property sales were a smart use of resources. "The image in society for nonprofits is that they should be doing for everybody," she said. "But that's not reality. Why shouldn't the Y use tools of entrepreneurship and take advantage of well-managed efficiencies, so long as they stay true to their philanthropic mission?"
In the cases of commercial fitness centers that brought suit against the Y for using its tax-exempt status to compete unfairly in providing health club services, its critics contend that the Y.M.C.A. "acts like a business" and thus should be "paying taxes like a business," in the words of Kevin Buckley, an executive with the International Health, Racquet & Sportsclub Association, a fitness industry group in Boston.
While a few Y's have ended up paying taxes on a portion of their offerings -- for example, discretionary or luxury services like saunas and steam rooms -- most of the legal cases have thus far been dismissed.
Milton Harrison, the chief executive of the newly renovated Y.M.C.A. in Newark, points out the importance of having high-quality centers no matter what the community's status is. "Urban people, poor people, deserve the same caliber of services as anyone else," he said. "It creates pride and says, 'We are somebody.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: TARGET AUDIENCE -- The Newark Y.M.C.A. provides shelter and more for about 150 homeless families.; PLACE OF PRIDE -- Milton Harrison, chief executive of the newly renovated Y.M.C.A. in downtown Newark. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono); SENDING A MESSAGE -- Kenneth L. Gladish, the executive director of the Y.M.C.A.'s national organization. (Photo by David Barnes) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); FAMILY (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (72%); WEIGHTLIFTING (72%); CHILD CARE (70%); CHILDREN (69%); LITIGATION (69%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (69%); RELIGION (65%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (64%); HOMELESSNESS (64%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (64%) Company and Organization Profiles

ORGANIZATION: YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION (84%) Young Men's Christian Assn; Young Men's Christian Assn

PERSON: Kenneth L Gladish; Joanna L Krotz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



414 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: Alexander Vagliano, 76; Aided Iran Talks 

 BODY:
Alexander M. Vagliano, who was involved in the negotiations for the return of American hostages from Iran, died on Thursday at his home in Norfolk, Conn. He was 76. 
 The cause was complications of diabetes, his wife, Sara, said. 
 In January 1981, as head of the international banking division of Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, Mr. Vagliano joined a group of bank executives who were negotiating the release of Iranian assets from American banks. The negotiations were part of an agreement that the United States government had brokered with Iran for the return of American hostages, one of whom was Mr. Vagliano's cousin, Moorehead Kennedy. 
A native of Paris, Mr. Vagliano came to the United States in 1940 and was naturalized in 1945 after serving in the Army. He graduated from Harvard College and Harvard Law School and worked for six years as an associate at the law firm of White & Case before joining J. P. Morgan & Company. He also worked for the Agency for International Development in the 60's. 
After retiring, Mr. Vagliano turned to raising sheep in Connecticut. In the late 1980's, the French government awarded him the rank of Chevalier de l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres for his activities promoting French-American culture. 
He is survived by his wife; two sons, Andre, of Brookline, Mass., and Justin, of Dover, Mass.; a daughter, Barbara, of New York City; and five grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); CHILDREN (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); DIABETES (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (52%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (52%); SHEEP FARMING (52%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); WHITE & CASE LLP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



415 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Giving; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Putting Her Hopes Where Her Heart Lies 

BYLINE:  By TOM MILLER; Tom Miller is the author of "Writing on the Edge," an anthology of literature about the U.S.-Mexico border.

 BODY:
BILL AND MELINDA GATES, through their foundation, have given away almost $6.25 billion, which includes more than $60 million to microbicide development, $5.8 million to 10 Alaska school districts and $2.5 million to a cancer research center in King County in Washington State.
 Shannon Cain, a foundation consultant in Tucson, used $5,000 in severance pay to start the Sonora Fund, a foundation that she hopes will help raise social consciousness and living standards on both sides of the border between the United States and Mexico. 
 Though tiny and barely off the ground, Ms. Cain's foundation represents a recent trend called community-based philanthropy. This "new philanthropy," as she calls it, is unabashedly progressive about who it finances and how it raises money and decides who receives it. Ms. Cain, 39, was the executive director of a small foundation in Tucson until it closed its doors in October 2002. Recently, she was a co-chairwoman of a conference in Tucson of the National Network of Grantmakers, a Brooklyn organization whose 200 members underwrite social and economic change. 
To explain the new philanthropy, Ms. Cain expanded on a biblical parable. "Four women see babies floating down a river," she said. "The first woman wades in the water and pulls the babies out one by one. The second woman teaches the babies how to swim. The third woman wades upriver to see who's putting the babies in the water. And the fourth woman sits in a university office analyzing why the babies were put in the water in the first place and how to prevent it in the future."
Ms. Cain said that "94 percent of all philanthropy goes to immediate needs and self-empowerment, like the first two women in the parable. The remaining 6 percent address root problems, much as the third and fourth women," she said. "We're concentrating on the root problems." Or, as the Funding Exchange, a network of social justice foundations in New York, says in its trademark, "Change, not charity."
For her first board of directors, Ms. Cain said she was looking for "a majority of people of color."
"We're returning power to the people most affected," she said. "It makes for better, smarter and more informed grants. We call it cross-class fund-raising." 
In other words, she would like the Sonora Fund's board to look much like its beneficiaries.
A typical potential recipient of the foundation is the Border Action Network, an advocacy group in Tucson, which, according to its director, Jennifer Allen, has "urged Arizona's attorney general to prosecute border vigilantes" -- the self-appointed patrols that round up Mexicans and others who have just crossed the border.
The Sonora Fund is also leaning toward cross-border grant giving to address problems like toxic waste and water contamination, Ms. Cain said. Another possible recipient is the Alianza Frontera de Obreros (the Border Workers' Alliance), a support group for assembly plant workers in the Mexican border towns of Nogales and Agua Prieta. "Their goals are consistent with ours," Ms. Cain said, "worker rights, decent housing, child care, health of workers and also corporate accountability for the foreign plant owners."
One person, Ms. McCain said, has volunteered to raise $5,000 by soliciting 500 donations of $10 each. Another way to raise money is through grants from more established organizations. Alan Rabinowitz, an urban economist in Seattle and the author of "Social Change Philanthropy in America," said: "When a small, local foundation discovers something wonderful to fund, it often serves as a recommendation to a larger foundation and confirms the smaller one's judgment."
The Sonora Fund has already won recognition, receiving $20,000 for administrative expenses earlier this year from Changemakers, a foundation in San Francisco that supports community-style philanthropy.
Ms. Cain and some colleagues have set a goal of raising $100,000 for the Sonora Fund by December 2004. She thinks that it is fitting that the first money was from her severance pay.
"I've always felt that people in philanthropy should give 10 percent of their income," she said. "If you are a fund-raiser, you have to be a donor, too."

GRAPHIC: Photo: START UP -- Shannon Cain made the first donation to her foundation. (Photo by Sarah Prall for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); WOMEN (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (76%); TRENDS (75%); CLOSINGS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (72%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (71%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (58%); CANCER (57%) Philanthropy; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: Sonora Fund

PERSON: BILL GATES (74%); MELINDA GATES (73%) Shannon Cain; Tom Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



416 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Giving; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2619 words

HEADLINE: ACCOUNTABILITY; 
New Equation For Charities: More Money, Less Oversight

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
AMERICA has the world's biggest collection of charities, but oversight of the nonprofit sector is parochial, piecemeal, political and, at times, accidental.
 In the last decade, gaps in a regulatory system that could be described as more hole than net have widened, as the number of charities and their assets exploded and state and federal money spent monitoring them remained flat or declined. 
 The Internal Revenue Service, for example, has 800 employees monitoring more than 900,000 charities -- along with almost 690,000 other tax-exempt organizations, like trade associations, fraternal societies and veterans' groups.
Over all, charitable giving more than doubled in inflation-adjusted dollars from 1992 to 2002, reaching $240 billion last year, according to Giving USA, a report compiled by American Association of Fundraising Counsel Trust for Philanthropy. The number of private foundations almost doubled in those 10 years, while their inflation-adjusted assets rose even more, to $477 billion in 2001 from $177 billion in 1992, according to the Foundation Center, a research organization in New York. 
While scandals from Enron to mutual funds have commanded some of the biggest business headlines in the last few years, the nonprofit sector has not been immune, either: deceptive accounting was found at the United Way in the Washington area, and there was embezzlement at the United Way in Lansing, Mich. The Nature Conservancy, the environmental group, refused to comply fully with a Congressional demand for information about land transactions that had been criticized as possible sweetheart deals. PipeVine, a nonprofit that helped fund-raisers collect and distribute donations, went bankrupt, taking more than $2 million with it. Dubious compensation and spending at some foundations also frequent the news. 
A drumbeat of such reports has made regulators and leaders of large charities aware of the need for greater accountability. But efforts to bring change have faltered, victim to budget constraints or lobbying by nonprofits that have long mastered the art of casting themselves as on the side of the angels.
Some obstacles involve complicated legal or jurisdictional issues; other hindrances are simpler.
New York, for example, is regarded as one of the most aggressive states for nonprofit regulation. But until this year, files of the state's 48,000 registered charities were stored in a room straight out of Dickens. The Ford Foundation's tax return for one year, all four cartons, was stacked haphazardly in a corner. William Josephson, the assistant attorney general for oversight of charities in New York, received money to upgrade the room, so six years of files are now neatly crammed into 6,570 feet of metal racks and tended by a staff of five.
"I now have a state-of-the-art 1950's file room," Mr. Josephson said. His request for money to create an electronic system that would allow charities to file documents online has been repeatedly denied.
So Mr. Josephson recently hit the fund-raising circuit, taking foundation heads and trustees on tours of his file room to raise money from the very people the room helps regulate -- a conflict of interest that he acknowledges, though he is quick to say that it was approved by the state ethics commission.
His boss, New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, calls the regulatory system full of "huge, gaping holes."
"By no means do I feel confident with the degree of oversight that we're able to give," Mr. Spitzer said, "that we can protect those who contribute and charities who rely on good will to raise money."
Tax exemptions granted to nonprofit organizations are based on the idea that charities and foundations labor for the public. That trust has, theoretically, many guardians: the boards of the groups themselves, the I.R.S., state attorneys general and the media and the public through their access to public filings.
But the public's trust in charities, and the ability or willingness of those guardians to police the sector, has steadily eroded. That confidence was particularly shaken after the Sept. 11 attacks by reports that the Red Cross, which raised more than $1 billion, was planning to divert money from the immediate relief most donors had in mind. It was also shaken by the amount of time it took some groups to hand out the money. Preliminary results for a study by Paul C. Light, a professor of public service at New York University, suggested that confidence has not rebounded. 
"The questions raised about how the 9/11 charities were spending the money they received and how quickly they were disbursing it," Professor Light said, "were followed by scandals in the Catholic Church and a steady drip, drip, drip of news stories raising questions about many aspects of nonprofit accountability."

States' Oversight
State governments have perhaps the broadest mandate to monitor nonprofits. But differences exist in how that responsibility is handled. 
Most states look at charity oversight as an extension of their role as consumer watchdogs and focus on solicitation. Issues of financial mismanagement and governance often fall through the cracks.
In Virginia, oversight of the state's 13,000 charities is handled by the office of consumer affairs in the Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services. Michael Wright, the manager of regulatory programs, said the office concentrated on compliance with registration requirements.
Around the country, the smallest of groups can escape oversight -- virtually no paperwork is required from charities that collect less than $25,000 a year.
Most of what supervision there is focuses on fund-raising. Thirty-seven states require organizations that raise money in their states, and their professional fund-raisers if they have them, to register. Nine of those states require charitable trusts and charitable nonprofit corporations to register and report, according to research by Marion R. Fremont-Smith, a senior research fellow at the Hauser Center for Nonprofit Organizations at Harvard University. 
In Texas, those who raise money on behalf of police, firefighters and other uniformed officers and veterans must register with the secretary of state's office. Private foundations do not have to register, although they are supposed to file their tax returns with the attorney general's office, nor are public charities required to register.
Mary Henderson, the deputy chief for charitable trusts in the Texas attorney general's office, said the state's limited registration requirements have not affected law enforcement.
"Frankly, we have not seen that we're at a loss for things to do," she said.
But the varied nature of state regulation allows charities to shop around for the least-cumbersome environment. Lawyers representing nonprofit groups in New York, exasperated with Mr. Josephson's hard-nosed approach to oversight, have told him that they would advise clients to incorporate in other states.

Heavy Workloads
State regulators do have one thing in common: the feeling of falling behind expanding case loads. 
In New York, Mr. Josephson's unit has 21 full- and part-time lawyers, including two volunteers. They oversee 48,000 charities.
In California, 11 lawyers and 11 investigators are responsible for around 85,000 charities. Attorney General Bill Lockyer increased the budget for charity oversight to $5.2 million from $3.2 million in 1999, but the office is bracing for cutbacks because of the state's $10 billion deficit.
"We still have to turn cases away because we don't have the manpower to handle them," said Belinda J. Johns, the supervising deputy attorney general for charities in California. "We have to do triage when we get complaints."
Virginia's office has grown to eight, including Mr. Wright's assistant, from three in 1978. But Mr. Wright said the staff was struggling to keep up. "The public is now more aware that they need information," he said, "and they turn to us for it."
In states that pursue cases more aggressively, budget constraints have hindered litigation. A trial can be expensive, so attorneys general often try to settle cases, and charities often rush to do so. Bad publicity can kill fund-raising.
While that can save taxpayer money, it means corrective actions often occur behind the scenes, reducing the ability to educate or deter. Avoiding the courts slows the creation of laws and of precedents that could set boundaries for appropriate activity by charities.
It also lessens the accountability of the regulator, said Evelyn Brody, a professor at the Chicago-Kent College of Law.
"Invisibility at the informal end of the regulatory spectrum," Ms. Brody said, "makes it hard to judge the level and effectiveness of regulators in influencing charity behavior, and whether regulators are motivated by their own or the public's interests." 

Stretched at the I.R.S.
The I.R.S. provides a layer of uniform oversight by ensuring that charities meet various requirements for guaranteeing their tax exemption. But the division that oversees tax-exempt organizations has been affected by an overhaul of the I.R.S that was imposed by Congress in 1998 and the increase in demand for its services. 
The number of employees in the division has fallen to about 800 from 960 in the early 1990's, said Steven C. Miller, director for the exempt organizations division.
At the same time, the number of organizations seeking tax-exempt status has risen sharply, Mr. Miller said. In the early 90's, the division was receiving 60,000 applications for tax-exempt status a year. Last year, requests topped 90,000.
Besides the fact that auditors have more groups to monitor, the increase has stretched resources in another way. "What we saw in the 1990's was a big uptick in determination-letter requests," Mr. Miller said, referring to requests for tax exemption. "What that meant was that more of our examiners were pulled off to do this customer-driven work."
In other words, auditors who might have been combing tax returns for irregularities and pursuing investigations were processing applications. Mr. Miller said that practice was stopped last year.
One of his predecessors, Marcus S. Owens, a lawyer now in private practice, pointed to two indicators that he said showed the agency had become less aggressive and less feared. 
One is the number of requests for technical advice from agents, which dropped to 18 last fiscal year from 124 in 1991.
The other is requests for private-letter rulings, questions posed by groups about whether something the group is considering, like a merger, might fall afoul of tax law. Such requests by tax-exempt groups dropped to 265 last fiscal year from 625 in 1997.
"The decline in the number of technical-advice requests being made suggests a decline in the number of audits being conducted and/or a decline in the depth of the audits that do occur, confirming popular suspicions," Mr. Owens said.
The drop in requests for private-letter advice reflects "a more relaxed attitude," he said, one "fed by a perception that I.R.S. audits are few and far between, and why bring up something that might pique their interest when the chances of audit are so small."
Beyond verifying compliance, tax returns are supposed to provide a window into how nonprofit groups are being managed. But many can be confusing.
At the same time, nonprofits seem to realize they can take shortcuts on their forms. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology, for example, lists no amount in the lines requiring it to itemize various expenditures like telephone services, postage and conference fees. 
When asked in March 2002 why M.I.T. could not itemize those expenses, James L. Morgan, the university's controller, said, "Can't and don't show it are two different things. We bulk it all together to make it consistent with public reports."
Mr. Miller said the I.R.S. was taking steps to address the inconsistencies in the reporting. For starters, it announced that next year it would be examining groups that raise money but report few or no costs associated with fund-raising. That work will be handled by a new compliance unit, which will be charged with keeping an eye on the tax returns.

The Board's Job
The first line of defense against the waste or misuse of charitable dollars is supposed to be the boards of nonprofits and foundations. 
Yet time and again, nonprofit boards have failed to uncover wrongdoing, pulled their punches or turned a collective blind eye.
When two board members of the United Way of the National Capital Area, which serves the Washington area, asked to see various financial statements, they were told they were not entitled to look at them. When they pressed further, they were pushed off the board.
The organization later imploded, brought down by deceptive accounting, high costs and the use of the charity's money to pay for personal expenses of various executives and board members.
More recently, business relationships between Boston University and some trustees have raised questions. In February, Gerald S. J. Cassidy, the university's Washington lobbyist, was named tothe board. From 1999 to 2001, the university paid Mr. Cassidy's firm $2.4 million, and it continued that relationship after Mr. Cassidy became a trustee, paying $400,000 in the first six months of this year.
Examples of boards that have approved questionable compensation have been a favorite topic of the media, ranging from the amount of a retirement package that was granted to Dennis Collins by the board of the James Irvine Foundation in San Francisco at a time when its assets were down sharply, to the Paul and Virginia Cabot Charitable Trust in Boston, which gave its chairman, Mr. Cabot's son, Paul C. Cabot Jr., about $200,000 to cover the costs of his daughter's wedding in Florida.
Lawyers who work with charities, and experts in nonprofit governance, say the volunteer nature of most charity work has contributed to a laxness that has been compounded by the structure of many nonprofit boards. The charismatic leaders who run many nonprofits and a sense that their real role is to be a fund-raiser, not a watchdog, have also contributed to the problems.

Technological Improvements
Regulators and leaders of large philanthropies have become increasingly convinced that accountability needs improving, but little consensus has formed about how to do that.
There has been some tepid discussion of a sort of Securities and Exchange Commission for the nonprofit sector, but the idea has received a heated negative response from most of the sector, which contends that more vigorous self-policing within the existing regulatory structures is adequate.
Regulators and nonprofit leaders predict that continuing developments in technology will improve oversight by making information more readily available.
Guidestar, a national database of nonprofit information, including many tax returns, started asking users of its Web site to register in May. The response was surprising: more than 150,000 registered, about three times what Guidestar had anticipated.
But greater access to information will also increase demand on the regulators, as Mr. Spitzer's charities bureau has discovered. It merged two databases late last year and recently found that one in four of the 48,000 charities it oversees had failed to meet the requirements of annual registration in one way or another.
But Mr. Josephson said the office could not spare the number of employees that were needed to pull 12,000 files, and each of 12,000 letters would have to be separately typed. Never mind the logistics of handling the responses.
He has proposed hiring temporary workers because he thinks the revenues that dunning the delinquents will bring in will more than cover those costs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: NEW ROOM -- New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, in shirtsleeves, and members of his office's charities bureau in their renovated filing room. The bureau's head, William Josephson, left of Mr. Spitzer, leads a staff of 21. (Photo by Joyce Dopkeen for The New York Times)(pg. 16) Drawing (Drawing by Mirko Ilic) Graph: "Piling Up Paperwork"The number of charities and other tax-exempt organizations the Internal Revenue Service is responsible for monitoring has grown steadily, while the number of employees in the tax-exempt division has remained flat. Graph tracks charitable and religious organizations and other tax-exempt organizations since 1992. Graph tracks I.R.S. Staff Tax-exempt division since 1999.(Source by Internal Revenue Service)(pg. F16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (92%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CHARITIES LAW (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ETHICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (76%); LOBBYING (76%); BUDGETS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); TAX AUTHORITIES (71%); EMBEZZLEMENT (70%); HIJACKING (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); TERRORISM (62%); VETERANS (55%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%) Philanthropy; Terrorism; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; World Trade Center (NYC); Special Sections; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Ethics; Philanthropy; States (US) 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); FOUNDATION CENTER (55%); NATURE CONSERVANCY (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (73%) Stephanie Strom

GEOGRAPHIC: LANSING, MI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; Washington (DC); New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2003 



417 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Well-Observed Waiting, And a Fruitful First Play 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
Tristine Skyler is intrigued by waiting rooms. Her first film, "Getting to Know You," was set in a bus station waiting room. Her first play, "The Moonlight Room," which opened earlier this month at the TriBeCa Playhouse, takes place in a hospital waiting room.
 "Ilike writing about waiting rooms," Ms. Skyler said in a recent interview. "I like the blank stage that a waiting room can be." 
 The settings have served her well. "Getting to Know You," which she wrote with her older sister, Lisanne, played at the Film Forum in 2000 to enthusiastic reviews. And now "The Moonlight Room," presented by the Worth Street Theater Company and Solecist Productions, has received similarly high praise. The play's run through Nov. 24 sold out, and it has been extended through Dec. 7.
"What immediately distinguishes 'The Moonlight Room' is the quality of the conversation," said Bruce Weber in his review in The New York Times, which also welcomed "the arrival of a precocious talent." In The New York Post, Donald Lyons called the play "beautifully written" with "both heart and mind."
The play focuses on two Manhattan teenagers -- played by Laura Breckenridge and Brendan Sexton III -- who spend the night in a hospital waiting room, having brought a friend in after a drug overdose. Ms. Skyler has been working on the play on and off for nearly five years.
One might expect that a woman with a privileged background who was educated at the Chapin School in Manhattan and Princeton University would have been sheltered from many of the hardships that "The Moonlight Room" unflinchingly explores -- the street drug Special K, buying guns, a teenager locked out of his own home. Although "The Moonlight Room" is not autobiographical, Ms. Skyler, 32, said she drew on her own encounters with dysfunction as a teenager living in the Yorkville section of the Upper East Side. 
"Growing up in New York was a very vivid time in my life, something I'm able to draw on still," she said. "It was an extreme time in the best possible way. The stakes are very high when you're a teenager. Especially when you're a teenager in New York.
"Children are so much more sensitive and receptive than adults, just by nature of being young. It's no surprise some of my friends spun out of control."
Ms. Skyler waged her own small rebellions, she said, "experiencing things I needed to experience, going to nightclubs I shouldn't have been at in the first place."
To be sure, although the playwright has a fresh, youthful face, there is a gravity to Ms. Skyler, a seriousness. At the same time, she appears to have that optimism so many people in theater share, perhaps because it is a survival technique. "I've had really wonderful experiences and really difficult experiences, and they each have their impact," she said. "But this moment right now is really wonderful."
Whether she will be able to make a living as a playwright is something she cannot think about.
"Worry is the flip side of regret," she said. "So I'm not going to regret the mistakes or the difficult times. And I'm going to try not to worry about what lies ahead.
"Otherwise you would go crazy in this business. I've been unemployed since college. I took such a different path from my friends, pursued a line of work that invites instability. So I'm definitely battling self-doubt."
Ms. Skyler's family has helped build her confidence, though she supports herself financially. Her parents -- Rita Skyler, who teaches autistic children at the old Stuyvesant High School, and Martin Skyler, a criminal defense lawyer -- took her to museums, to the theater and to auditions as a child. 
Ms. Skyler has been performing since she was 6. In college, she appeared in plays like "Suddenly Last Summer" and "The Seagull." In 2000 she played the lead in the sequel to "The Blair Witch Project." Though she considered becoming a lawyer, she said, "I guess the urge to create is very hard to suppress."
Ms. Skyler also seems to draw strength from her siblings. She and Lisanne Skyler, a screenwriter in Los Angeles, collaborated on "Getting to Know You," which was adapted from three short stories by Joyce Carol Oates and featured Bebe Neuwirth and Chris Noth.
Her younger brother, Edward Skyler, who is Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's press secretary, came to Princeton to see her thesis presentation. He contributed some of his own money to "The Moonlight Room," urged his friends to see it and brought Deputy Mayor Patricia E. Harris and Cultural Affairs Commissioner Kate D. Levin on opening night. "I don't take it lightly," Ms. Skyler said of her brother's efforts. "It means the world to me."
The play started as a reading in August 2001 produced by the New Group Theater in Manhattan. A year later, the Group at Strasberg, a theater company in Los Angeles, staged a workshop of it. Ms. Skyler's boyfriend, Matthew Brown, a writer and director, gave the play to his lawyer, James Adams, who serves on the board of Worth Street. Mr. Adams passed it on to Jeff Cohen, Worth Street's artistic director. "I couldn't put it down," Mr. Cohen said. 
"The underpinning of it was a page turner," he added. "I wanted to know what happened to these people."
The theater company is a scrappy enterprise, one that suffered after Sept. 11 because of its proximity to ground zero. Mr. Cohen, who directed "The Moonlight Room," also takes tickets. Ms. Skyler helped with fund-raising, bought hair dye for the lead actress and vacuumed the theater.
She tries not to dwell on how her work will be received, she said, adding: Nobody knows me, so I'm not trying to live up to any expectations. I'm just working from an internal place."
Ms. Skyler said she didn't want to write just a narratively compelling drama, but one with a larger purpose. "I think it's important for entertainment to at least consider its capacity to affect social and political change," she said. 
The play was informed by her research into youths at risk in the summer of 2001 at a child advocacy center in downtown Brooklyn. She also worked with Public Color, a program in which city teenagers paint their high schools.
Still, Ms. Skyler said she did not presume to be enlightening theatergoers with "The Moonlight Room"; she is merely trying to get them thinking. "I don't think I've taught anybody anything, because the play doesn't answer anything," she said. "It's just asking questions. And I feel comfortable asking questions."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tristine Skyler at her apartment. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); CHILDREN (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); PARTY DRUGS (69%); THEATER (58%) THEATER; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: SKYLER, TRISTINE; POGREBIN, ROBIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: MOONLIGHT ROOM, THE (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2003 



418 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: The Universal Cure 

BYLINE:  By Ezekiel J. Emanuel and Victor R. Fuchs; Ezekiel J. Emanuel, oncologist and bioethicist, is author of "No Margin, No Mission." Victor R. Fuchs, professor emeritus of economics at Stanford, is author of "Who Shall Live?"

 BODY:
The public has good reason to be worried about health coverage. After five years of relative stability, insurance premiums, prescription-drug prices and other costs have soared. This year, premiums went up nearly 14 percent, with those paid by employees increasing nearly 50 percent since 2000. The number of Americans without health insurance increased more than 5 percent just in the last year. And strikes by workers in Los Angeles and elsewhere show that health coverage is the flashpoint of labor discord.
 As a solution, many policymakers are advocating small reforms like a Medicare prescription drug benefit or expansion of the Children's Health Insurance Program. Unfortunately, more services for some groups may increase costs and force reductions in coverage for others. 
 What we need is a fair proposal that is simple, efficient and appealing to disparate constituencies. For more than a decade, as members of the medical and economics communities, we have advocated such an alternative: universal health care vouchers. 
In a morally responsible country, everyone should have health insurance. Each family or individual would be given a voucher to purchase a policy that covered basic services, including doctor visits, hospitalization, pharmacy benefits, some mental health and dental care, and catastrophic coverage. People who want more services, like wider choices of specialists, could pay a premium over the basic voucher. 
This would continue to be a decentralized system with existing health plans contracting with providers, but their insurance would no longer be employment-based. That Americans receive insurance from their employer is a relic of World War II wage controls. It has one advantage -- pooling people to reduce premiums -- but many disadvantages, including locking people into jobs so they can continue to receive health coverage and allowing employers to choose insurance providers. It has also become an albatross for businesses. Without costly insurance worries, companies could compete for workers by offering higher wages and better working conditions. 
A voucher system would also enable the government to end Medicaid and phase out Medicare. Having multiple health care systems squanders resources. All Medicaid recipients would receive vouchers. Each year, those who normally would become eligible for Medicare would be enrolled in the voucher plan instead. Current beneficiaries who preferred traditional coverage would not be forced to switch, although after total Medicare enrollment dropped sufficiently, the program would be amalgamated into the voucher system.
One consistent concern about vouchers is that health plans would have financial incentives to avoid the sick. But requiring each insurance company to offer a basic package with catastrophic coverage would ensure that individuals with greater needs would not be excluded. More important, the voucher system would pay insurers part of their cost as a lump sum and part as a reimbursement fee for actual services rendered, reducing the incentive for insurers to avoid sick patients.
A national health policy board would administer the system, including certifying health plans and insurance companies, managing the vouchers and payments and collecting and disseminating data on the quality of care.
The United States now spends about $1.4 trillion annually on health care. The government already pays about 45 percent of that. In 2003, the average health insurance premium for a family of four is about $9,000. Using that figure and population numbers, a universal health care voucher system would cost about $840 billion, excluding Medicare. That would leave substantial sums for people to pay for out-of-pocket expenses and services not in the basic package.
More important, using an earmarked tax to pay for the vouchers would limit cost increases. The level of the tax would determine the value of the voucher. If the public began demanding an increase in the voucher value, it would be directly linked to higher taxes, moderating these demands and health care inflation.
Obviously, many details need to be elaborated. Nevertheless, vouchers hold the promise of securing wide support. Democrats have long favored the notion of universality, while Republicans instinctively favor voucher plans and have longed for the demise of Medicare and Medicaid. Businesses want to stop providing health insurance, and Americans want guaranteed health coverage with choice.
With the inexorable explosion in health care costs and the increase in the number of uninsured, a crisis is at hand. The universal health care voucher can secure both widespread support and finally establish a fair, functional health care system in the United States.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Anthony Russo) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (95%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); DENTAL INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); MEDICARE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DRUG PRICES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); DENTISTRY (74%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (73%); HOSPITALS (73%); STRIKES (72%); MEDICAID (58%); WORLD WAR II (50%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; VOUCHERS; HEALTH INSURANCE AND MANAGED CARE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; TEETH AND DENTISTRY; HOSPITALS 

PERSON: FUCHS, VICTOR R (DR); EMANUEL, EZEKIEL J (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2003 



419 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Miami Girds For Protests At Trade Talks 

BYLINE:  By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 17 

 BODY:
This city's downtown was nearly deserted on Monday as police and government officials prepared for an international trade meeting that is likely to draw thousands of protesters, some threatening the same violent tactics that crippled a World Trade Association meeting in Seattle in 1999.
 As cruise ships and federal court proceedings were diverted to Fort Lauderdale for the week, some shops and restaurants boarded their windows and office workers navigated closed-off streets and police barricades, trade officials from 34 nations began arriving for the first high-level trade talks held in the United States since the Seattle meeting. 
 The topic is whether, and how, to create a free trade zone stretching from Alaska to Tierra del Fuego. The idea is embraced by many corporate leaders but reviled by labor unions and low-wage workers, who say ending tariffs would eliminate countless American jobs. 
While trade negotiations will not begin in earnest until Thursday, business leaders and civic groups began meeting here on Monday to come up with recommendations for the trade ministers. Law enforcement officers took to the streets on horses, bikes and foot, making final preparations for an event they have been training for all year.
As of late Monday afternoon, the police had arrested five protesters, for blocking a downtown sidewalk. All of the department's roughly 1,000 officers are on 12-hour shifts, a police spokeswoman said, and many more officers, on loan from departments throughout Florida, will join them. City officials say most of the $12 million cost of playing host to the event involves security.
The stakes are high for Miami because it is hoping to be chosen as the headquarters for the Free Trade Association of the Americas, a distinction that would help its economy and give it more international clout. Miami is marketing itself as perfect for the headquarters because of its large Latin American population, the hundreds of daily flights between here and Latin American cities, and Florida's status as one of the top trade partners for most of the 34 nations in the trade pact.
But Miami is competing with eight other cities, including Atlanta; Panama City; Port-of-Spain, Trinidad; and Cancun, Mexico. And Florida's powerful sugar and citrus industries are vehemently opposed to ending trade tariffs, because doing so would threaten their existence by sharply increasing competition from Brazil and other Latin American countries.
At the moment, though, officials fear that the biggest threat to Miami's bid for the headquarters is the potential for violent protests now. Critics of the intense police presence, including the American Civil Liberties Union, say it is an overzealous effort to prove that Miami can keep protesters under control.
Most protest groups, including the A.F.L.-C.I.O., have promised to use only nonviolent tactics.
"The anarchists, do they concern us?" said Fred Frost, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. of South Florida, referring to small, secretive groups that have used violence at other trade meetings. "Yes. But the A.F.L.-C.I.O. will have peacekeepers in the area to try to maintain order. We love this community, and we're here to help protect it."
Civil rights groups are incensed about an ordinance the Miami City Commission passed last week barring a range of potential weapons from public gatherings that some civil liberty experts say violates free-speech rights.
The ordinance prohibits protest groups of more than six people from carrying glass bottles, water guns, pieces of wood more than a quarter-inch thick, guns and "any length of metal, plastic or other similar hard or stiff material."
Lida Rodriguez-Taseff, president of the Miami branch of the American Civil Liberties Union, said the large police presence was a dangerous tool in Miami's quest to win the trade headquarters. "When you use your police force to carry out your political whim," she said, "that is when you have a recipe for disaster."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 20, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about the expectation of protests at an international trade meeting in Miami misstated the name of the group that faced violent protests in Seattle in 1999. It is the World Trade Organization, not Association.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As Miami prepared for an international trade meeting, a worker set up a barricade yesterday to help control the many protesters expected. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); RIOTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); ARRESTS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); MARINE VESSELS (72%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); CRUISES (72%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (64%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FREE PORTS AND TRADING ZONES; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: FREE TRADE ASSN OF THE AMERICAS 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); MEXICO (79%); BRAZIL (79%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (54%) MIAMI (FLA); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2003 



420 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Hepatitis Inquiry Moves Deliberately From Farm to Plate 

BYLINE:  By LYDIA POLGREEN; Sherri Day contributed reporting for this article from New York. 

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, Nov. 17 

 BODY:
At first, it just seemed like a nasty case of the flu. Jeff Cook, a 38-year-old unemployed auto mechanic, felt achy and nauseated, so he took some over-the-counter pain medicine and got some rest.
 A couple of weeks earlier, about Oct. 6, he had eaten a plate of chicken and beef fajitas with his wife, Christine, and their two daughters, at the Chi-Chi's Restaurant at the Beaver Valley Mall not far from their home in West Aliquippa, about 20 miles northwest of here. There was no reason to suspect any connection. 
 Less than a month after he ate that meal, Mr. Cook was at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center suffering from acute liver failure. Surgeons transplanted a liver flown in from California, Mrs. Cook said in an interview on Monday, but his other organs were shutting down.
"They did everything they could to try and save him," Mrs. Cook said. "But it was too late."
Liver failure brought on by hepatitis A, a usually nonfatal viral infection, killed Mr. Cook on Nov. 7. He became the first person to die in what federal health officials say is the biggest food-borne outbreak of hepatitis A in the United States.
Two others have died since then and more than 500 people have become infected. Health officials are looking at similar but smaller outbreaks in Tennessee, Georgia, North Carolina and Ohio to see if they are related. 
State officials in Pennsylvania and federal officials from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Food and Drug Administration are trying to pin down the source of the infection that has struck Beaver County, which includes a string of working-class towns along the Ohio River 20 miles northwest of Pittsburgh. 
"We have not identified any specific food source," Dr. Calvin B. Johnson, secretary of the Pennsylvania Health Department, said at a news conference here on Monday. "We hope to get lab results soon that will identify whether it came from a food source" rather than being passed from a person infected with the virus, which is the most common method of transmission.
Dr. Johnson said that no new cases had been confirmed since Saturday, holding the number of people sickened at 510. State officials said the number of new infections might rise because the incubation period for the virus is about a month, and the restaurant closed on Nov. 2. So far most cases that resulted in illness appear to have involved people who ate at the restaurant in early October. 
Nearly 9,000 people have received immune globulin injections that can prevent infection if administered within 14 days of exposure. Nearly 10,000 have been tested for the virus. 
So far the best guess for what killed Jeff Cook and two others and sickened hundreds is green onions. Investigators suspect the onions could be the culprits because they have been linked to outbreaks of hepatitis A in three other states.
Even if they do conclusively link the Beaver Valley outbreak to scallions, tracking the ultimate source of the infection will not be easy. Agriculture distribution is a complex business that involves many sets of hands, health officials said. 
"It could have happened anywhere between the farm and the person's plate, and there are a lot of steps in that process," said Richard Quartrone, a spokesman for the Georgia Division of Public Health, which contended with a hepatitis A outbreak in September and early October that sickened 250 people who ate green onions. 
As for the outbreak here, officials at Prandium Inc., the California company that owns Chi-Chi's, worked to reassure customers at their hundreds of restaurants across the country that their food is safe. Chi-Chi's, based in Louisville, Ky., is considered one of the first restaurant chains to introduce standardized Mexican fare to the American public.
A spokesman for the company said that Chi-Chi's had taken "extraordinary" measures voluntarily to ensure the safety of its food, including removing green onions from all of its 100 restaurants. The spokesman said that the Beaver Valley Mall location had received scores of 90 percent or higher and one perfect score in its last four health inspections.
Twelve employees of the Chi-Chi's branch in Beaver Valley tested positive for hepatitis A and are being treated, said the spokesman, who would not give his name or provide any other company representative who would allow himself to be quoted by name. 
As the company sought to reassure customers, families like the Cooks wondered how something as simple as a visiting a popular chain restaurant could bring so much pain. The Cooks chose Chi-Chi's because their 10-year-old daughter, Cassandra, liked eating there. 
It was a fateful choice. The couple's 8-year-old daughter, Courtney, does not like Mexican food, Mrs. Cook said, so she had a hot dog and French fries. Cassandra, who had the chicken burrito, also contracted hepatitis A, but she has recovered.
A few weeks after eating at the restaurant Mr. Cook began to feel sick, said Mrs. Cook, who did not become ill. 
"He would have aches, run low-grade fever, then it would go away," said Mrs. Cook, who is an emergency room nurse at a local hospital. But on Nov. 2, his fever spiked to 104 degrees, so Mrs. Cook took him to the emergency room,where he tested positive for hepatitis A. 
Doctors told the Cooks that the disease was not usually fatal and would run its course.
But Mr. Cook got worse. His fever and nausea increased, and by the second day he had become jaundiced and seemed confused. "He was brushing his teeth without toothpaste, stuff like that," Mrs. Cook said.
She took him back to the hospital, where it became clear that he had serious liver problems. Doctors transferred him to the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, a well-known transplant hospital. By Friday, surgeons had given Mr. Cook another liver, but it was too late.
Now the family mourns the sudden death of an energetic father. Because Mr. Cook was laid off from his job at an auto body shop, he had spent much time with his daughters while his wife worked.
"He was so close to the girls, he just lived for them," Mrs. Cook said.
The impact of the hepatitis outbreak on the Chi-Chi's chain is likely to be substantial, restaurant industry experts say.
"It's not like a month later everything is back to being fine again," said Dennis Lombardi, executive vice president of Technomic Inc., a Chicago food service consulting firm. "It doesn't work that way. In a minor case, like salmonella, that's going to have a very minor impact. But when it's a case where there are deaths involved, that's a different story."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeff Cook, the first person to die in what is being called the biggest food-borne outbreak of hepatitis A in the United States, shown last Christmas with his daughters, Cassandra and Courtney. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEPATITIS (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); LIVER DISEASE (90%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); INFLUENZA (90%); HEPATITIS A (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (85%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (77%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (77%); HEALTH CARE (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); PAIN MANAGEMENT (72%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) FOOD CONTAMINATION AND POISONING; HEPATITIS; SCALLIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (56%) CHI-CHI'S (RESTAURANT CHAIN); PRANDIUM INC 

PERSON: POLGREEN, LYDIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (93%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2003 



421 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Medicare Compromise Plan Won't Cut Costs, Critics Say 

BYLINE:  By REED ABELSON and MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
Critics of the Medicare plan devised by Congressional leaders said yesterday that it contained little in the way of mechanisms to slow the runaway costs of drugs and medical services even as it provided tens of billions of dollars for hospitals, health plans, employers, doctors and the drug industry.
 With the full details of the proposal not yet public, some policy analysts also expressed doubt that the compromise, reached over the weekend, would stay within the 10-year, $400 billion cost that Congress allotted to a Medicare overhaul. The legislation would provide a prescription drug benefit for the first time to 40 million disabled and elderly Americans. 
 "There's something here for everybody," said Ira Loss, who follows the health-care industry for Washington Analysis, a service for investors. The legislation, he said, "is a classic election-year giveaway, a year early." 
The legislation would give employers $70 billion or more in subsidies to discourage them from dropping health coverage for their retirees. Private health plans would receive roughly $15 billion to persuade them to assume a much larger role under Medicare, in particular providing the new drug coverage. Hospitals, particularly in rural areas, could expect about $20 billion in added payments, and doctors -- who were facing lower Medicare reimbursements -- would instead receive a small increase. 
Many consumer groups have been critical of the proposed legislation as it worked its way through Congress, complaining that health-care companies are the only clear beneficiaries, and they renewed their criticisms yesterday.
"At the top of the list is the pharmaceutical industry, which seems to have managed to escape any effort to rein in what they charge consumers," said Gail Shearer, a health policy expert at Consumers Union. 
But the plan that emerged from a House-Senate conference committee has won support from many crucial constituents, including employers. "We are bringing the Medicare program into the 21st century," said Helen Darling, the president of the Washington Business Group on Health, a national group of large employers based in Washington, who cautioned that she had not yet seen the details of the proposal. 
On a down day for stocks, indexes of health care stocks were down slightly less than the broader market.
Lawmakers sought to ensure that the bill would not prompt employers to eliminate superior drug benefits now offered to retirees. The subsidies designed to meet that goal appear to have played an important role in persuading AARP, the influential lobbying group for the elderly, to endorse the legislation yesterday. 
The legislation is also designed to push health insurers to provide stand-alone drug coverage that would not include coverage for hospital care and physician services, a product that does not now exist. Health plans have backed away from offering H.M.O.-style coverage under Medicare, complaining that the government's payments have failed to keep pace with their costs. But the legislation would raise their payments even before the drug benefit takes effect in 2006, and the health plans' trade group said the proposal leveled the playing field with traditional Medicare. 
Paul Heldman, an analyst with Charles Schwab Capital Markets, said the industry appeared to win the most attractive provisions from both the House and Senate versions of the bill. 
But some policy experts questioned whether the compromise struck by the conferees -- in hopes of winning votes both from House conservatives who favor robust private competition for Medicare and Senate liberals who want to defend the traditional program -- would spur much competition. 
It entitles health plans to payments roughly equivalent to those under the traditional fee-for-service program. And even if the plans find ways to save money, beneficiaries who choose to stay in traditional Medicare would not face the threat of significantly higher premiums, said Len Nichols, an executive with the Center for Studying Health System Change, a research group in Washington. 
"As an economist, I don't see a great deal of pressure for competition," he said.
Rural hospitals and doctors would also reap significant benefits from the bill, analysts said, with roughly $25 billion earmarked for them. The legislation would also increase payments by about $400 million for teaching hospitals, which often are located in big cities. 
For drug makers, the legislation, by subsidizing drug purchases for Medicare beneficiaries, appears to promise access to new customers without posing a threat of price controls, analysts said. The industry also would duck the threat that drug imports could be legalized, because the compromise measure allows government officials to cite safety concerns as a reason to bar imports.
"It's a net-net positive for the industry," said Jon Fisher, a money manager for Fifth Third Bank. He warned, however, that "overt price controls will continue to be a concern" to drug companies, as prices continue to rise. 
Analysts said there were provisions in the Medicare bill that would hurt some providers. 
Under intense lobbying from hospital trade groups, lawmakers agreed on an 18-month moratorium on construction of specialty hospitals and expansion of existing ones, while Congress studies whether such facilities hurt general hospitals by skimming the most profitable patients. 
Lawmakers also tightened reimbursements in some areas like durable medical equipment and drugs administered in doctors' offices where Medicare has been found to pay much more than other purchasers. And pharmacists worried that the bill would push more business to pharmacy benefit managers' mail-order operations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (93%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); AGING (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (73%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); INSURANCE (65%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); MEDICARE; HEALTH INSURANCE AND MANAGED CARE; HOSPITALS; DOCTORS 

PERSON: ;ABELSON, REED; FREUDENHEIM, MILT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2003 



422 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL; 
Fewer Airline Passengers, But More-Crowded Planes

BYLINE:  By ALINA TUGEND 

 BODY:
Randy Kabrich, a broadcasting consultant from Tampa who flies more than 250,000 miles a year, has been pulled off a plane twice in the last six months because there were too many passengers and not enough seats.
 Even though he is an Executive Platinum customer with American Airlines, Mr. Kabrich says, he was bumped by the airline in July after boarding a flight in Dallas for Tampa. He was put on a flight two hours later. 
 A few months later, he was bumped again, this time twice in quick succession on a Tampa-to-Dallas flight. First, after waiting more than two hours to board and being upgraded to first class, he was told a family whose confirmed first-class seats had been canceled by mistake had priority. Then, he was told his original coach seat had gone to somebody else. He ended up on the next plane out, which was diverted to Oklahoma City. 
 "The trip finally ended after 13 hours," Mr. Kabrich said. After he complained, the airline offered him "three electronic upgrade units" on his frequent flier card, he said.
 Commercial airlines are suddenly becoming crowded, and never mind that fewer people have been flying since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, with domestic and international traffic down to 640 million passengers in 2002 from 710 million in 2000, according to the Federal Aviation Administration. Their numbers have been picking up as the economy has heated up, but that alone does not explain the increasingly jammed conditions.
 Just as important, cash-short domestic airlines have taken both 747 wide-body jetliners and narrow-body planes like the Boeing 727 out of service since Sept. 11, according to Back Aviation Solutions, an industry consulting company in New Haven, and have replaced them with smaller regional jets that seat about 50 people, if they have replaced them at all.
 As a result, the domestic "load factor" -- the number of passengers actually flying on a plane -- increased to 74.2 percent in the third quarter of this year from 71.4 percent before Sept. 11, meaning that the average number of empty seats on a 150-seat jet has decreased to 39 from 43. Even though that rise may look small, it is not, because "it's very difficult to raise load factors," said John Weber, vice president for sales and services at Back Aviation. "Airlines are becoming much more effective and efficient at matching capacity to demand on flights."
 And so more people are getting bumped off planes -- or in some cases, never getting on. Ask Joseph T. Cestaro, a frequent flier with Delta, Northwest and Alaska Airlines, about that.
 "Seats are often impossible to come by on some routes and we're willing to pay first class," said Mr. Cestaro, chief executive of Debt Reduction Services, a nonprofit money-management firm in Boise, Idaho. About a month ago, he says, he was barely able to catch a flight home from Salt Lake City on a Sunday. "Absolutely every Delta Connection flight was overbooked, as were Horizon and Alaska, and there was not a seat to be had until 10 p.m.," he said.
 Even when he does get a ticket, he often has to stuff himself into a commuter plane, which he likens to flying in a coffin. "The level of discomfort is horrendous on these planes," said Mr. Cestaro, who is 6 feet tall. "You've got to be like a twig."
 The current space squeeze resulted more from the dot.com collapse and subsequent weak economy than anything else, said Mr. Weber of Back Aviation. At the height of the Internet boom, airlines could get away with charging "astronomical" business-class fares, he said, but now they have to cram people in to make flights profitable.
 Even on bigger jets, the days are long gone when a business traveler with frequent flier status can count on an empty middle seat -- a perk that a passenger like Celeste Diaz Ferraro misses. Ms. Diaz Ferraro, a communications director for the Puerto Rico Federal Affairs Administration, splits her time between Washington and Dallas, so she likes to use an airplane for a mobile office. Only she no longer can.
 "I'm not a large person, but all the extra room meant I needed a little extra space to spread out, which was never a problem, despite the fact that I am a government employee and can't fly first class," Ms. Diaz Ferraro said. That is because American Airlines, which she almost always flies, used to block out a middle seat for its elite fliers, she said. 
 An American Airlines spokeswoman said that was true unless the plane was full; she said the policy had changed, and although frequent fliers could request aisle or window seats, empty middle seats were no longer an option. 
 And forget those free upgrades. Ms. Diaz Ferraro said she used to get them all the time from ticket agents at the airport "who remembered my cheerful face from all the bleary-eyed 6 a.m. flights." Now, they are so busy they barely have time to look up and have fewer upgrades to offer anyway, she says.
 With planes more packed, frequent fliers have had to change all sorts of onboard habits. Kathy Sudeikis, who works for the Kansas-based travel agency All About Travel, says she has stopped putting on makeup on board because there is not enough room to maneuver. And Alin Boswell, a flight attendant for 15 years with US Airways, has noticed a lot more silent jousting among passengers. "The fight over the armrest between two grown adults is hysterical," he said. And he has had to increase his vigilance at the bathroom in the first-class compartment to enforce a ban on lines that run back to the cockpit. He says he gets lots of dirty looks and even unpleasant comments from passengers he orders back to their seats.
 Mr. Boswell says he has also witnessed the evaporation of the good will that flourished right after the terrorist attacks. "That lasted for about three weeks," he said. "It used to be, 'God bless you.' Now it's, 'Why did it take you so long?"'
 The problem is not just full planes, it is also thin staffs, said Dawn Deeks, a spokeswoman for the Association of Flight Attendants, which represents 40,000 employees at 26 airlines. 
 "Domestic flights that used to be staffed by 8 are now staffed by 5," she said. "International flights that used to be staffed by 11 or 12 flight attendants are now down to 7 or 8." Consequently, she said, "Safety and security come first and the little niceties aren't there."
 Planes are bursting with luggage as well -- to the consternation of frequent fliers who reminisce about the abundance of storage space in the good old days of just a few months ago. "When a plane is 100 percent full, if I'm in the fifth or sixth row and everyone starts to put their baggage on board wherever, I have to put my stuff all the way in the back," complained Kevin Mitchell, chairman of the Business Travel Coalition. "Then I have to wait until everyone gets off and walk to the back -- then I'm the last to get off. The system wasn't designed to support this kind of load factor."
 The overhead-bin issue can only get worse, as passengers trundle on with heavy coats, hats and scarves. "I've definitely seen people fight over overhead space," Mr. Boswell, the flight attendant, said. "It's the end of the world for some people not getting a space above their seat."

Readers are invited to send stories about business travel experiences to businesstravel@nytimes.com.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alin Boswell, a flight attendant for 15 years with US Airways, says passenger disputes are increasing. (Photo by David Scull for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (89%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); TERRORISM (66%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (51%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); BOEING CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIRWAYS 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: BOSELL, ALIN; TUGEND, ALINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2003 



423 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Businesses Post Increase In Inventories 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 17 

 BODY:
The nation's businesses, which have been keeping their inventories fairly lean, increased the supplies of unsold goods in September for the first time in six months, the Commerce Department reported on Monday. 
 The report said that business inventories rose 0.3 percent, a turnaround from a 0.4 percent drop in August. September's increase was the first since March, when businesses also increased their supplies at warehouses and back lots by 0.3 percent. Economists had expected inventories to be flat. 
 "With inventories swinging over to now showing increases, a watershed has been reached," said Ken Mayland, president of ClearView Economics. "Inventories will be a major part of the 2004 economy story, along with a capital spending boom and swelling exports."
 In another encouraging sign, September's increase in inventories came even as business sales rose 0.6 percent, in contrast to a 0.3 percent decline in August.
 Economists hope that business owners will feel more certain about the sustainability of the economic rebound and will continue to increase inventories, a development that can bode well for growth.
 After a long and severe drought in capital investment, some businesses are slowly increasing such spending and adding jobs -- two ingredients that must continue for a recovery to last. Low short-term interest rates, along with the income tax credit, helped provide strength during the summer. Many economists expect the Federal Reserve to maintain its benchmark short-term rate at 1 percent at its last meeting of the year in December, and into part of 2004. 
 In September, wholesalers increased inventories by 0.4 percent and sales rose 0.5 percent. Retailers increased inventories 1 percent as sales dipped 0.3 percent. At factories, inventories dropped 0.4 percent and sales increased 1.4 percent.
 The overall economy grew at an annual pace of 7.2 percent in the third quarter, the best performance in nearly two decades. There is a chance that September's increase in inventories could nudge up the second estimate of that quarter's growth, some economists said. It is to be announced on Nov. 25.
 Economists project that growth is slowing this quarter to an annual pace around 4 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORIES (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); RETAIL SALES (88%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); RETAILERS (73%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); DROUGHT (52%); INCOME TAX (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); SALES 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2003 



424 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL: ON THE GROUND -- In Honolulu; 
The Line To Paradise Begins Here

BYLINE:  By MARK A. STEIN 

 BODY:
More than two-thirds of Hawaii's jobs are clustered around Honolulu. Tourism dominates the economy, but the state is trying to diversify into trade and banking -- promoting its location between the West Coast and Asia -- and also into technology, though that effort is hampered by a lack of venture capital.

AIRPORT
 HONOLULU INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT is busy, and passengers have reported long delays in getting to gates, particularly in the interisland terminal.
The airport is building a new security checkpoint in the overseas terminal to shorten the lines.
 To cut congestion on runways, the federal government recently designated Kalaeloa Airport, the former Barbers Point Naval Air Station, as a "reliever airport." It will receive diverted private aircraft from Honolulu.
 David Frisbie, a speaker and consultant in San Diego, praised airport workers and airline employees as friendly and helpful.
 "Apart from high humidity in the airport and the fact that Northwest's World Club closes too early, we've had good fortune at Honolulu," he said. Cab fare to Waikiki is about $25.

HOTELS
 The IHILANI RESORT AND SPA (808-679-0079, $354 to $549), a Marriott hotel, is considered by many to be the best hotel on the island, with spectacular views and excellent service. But it is a half-hour -- more in rush hour -- west of downtown.
 Close to the convention center downtown and away from honeymooners on the beach, is the ALA MOANA (808-955-4811, $125 to $225). It has set aside seven floors for business travelers, including a separate check-in desk and access to the business center and its computers, printers, fax machine, videocassette player and private meeting room.
 The AQUA BAMBOO (808-922-7777, $145 to $235), a recently renovated boutique hotel, "is a very short distance to International Market, a hop from Waikiki beach," said Dieu-Le Pham, an analyst for the John Deere Company in Moline, Ill.
 "Parking is $10 a night," she added, "the price is very affordable, the rooms are clean and it is a walking distance to the zoo, park and the aquarium."

RESTAURANTS
 ALAN WONG'S (808-949-2526, $120 for dinner for two, including wine and tip), on the top floor of an office building on South King Street, is popular for its elegant dining room and exotic menu -- shrimp pork hash, for example, or Madras kimchee fish curry. Beef and duck are also available.
 "Ask for directions or be sure the cab driver knows where it is," advises Judy Guffey, who retired as a college employment adviser last year. "You can miss it otherwise."
 CHEF MAVRO (808-944-4714, $200) combines Hawaiian and French cuisine, producing dishes like Hawaiian bouillabaisse. "Pricey and worth it," Ms. Guffey said.
 LA MER (808-923-2311, $180), in the Halekulani Hotel, has two dining rooms -- one seats 16 people, the other about 22 -- that open to the ocean and serve a prix fixe menu as well as a la carte seafood and steaks.
 "Sunset cocktails with Hawaiian music," Ms. Guffey said. "Even the staff stops to watch it go down some days." Reservations are essential.

ENTERTAINMENT
 DUKE'S RESTAURANT AND CANOE CLUB (808-922-2268) is a beachfront restaurant that serves burgers and sandwiches, but the real draws are the music and the patio sunsets.
 "Duke's is where you want to go for activities on the beach -- drink, watch football, have dinner with an ocean view, meet people, and have a blast," Ms. Pham said.
 SOCIETY OF SEVEN, in the main showroom of the Outrigger Waikiki Hotel (808-922-6408), is an improvisational revue blending comedy sketches, music and celebrity impersonations. Not to everyone's taste, but fun for people in the right mood.

ON YOUR OWN
 Exhibitions at the BISHOP MUSEUM (808-847-3511), the state cultural museum, range from earnest offerings like "Pohaku: The Art and Architecture of Stonework in Hawaii" to "Scream Machines: The Science of Roller Coasters." 
 At the POLYNESIAN CULTURAL CENTER (808-293-3333), islanders re-enact war dances and wedding ceremonies, carve tiki figures and twirl fire knives. At night, 100 singers and dancers perform an authentic display of Polynesian culture.
 The U.S.S. ARIZONA MEMORIAL (808-422-0561) at Pearl Harbor is free, and very popular. At peak periods in summer, there can be a wait to get in, and tickets to the free movie can be exhausted before noon. It is about 45 minutes from Waikiki by bus or taxi.
 To combine exercise and sightseeing, hike up DIAMOND HEAD, the extinct 760-foot volcano overlooking the city (state parks information: 808-587-0300). 
 The trail, paved almost the entire way, is classified as easy to moderate, though it can be steep in spots. It takes about an hour and a half. There are parking and toilets at the trailhead. Bring a flashlight, water and a camera.

BUSINESS LORE
 Government investigators recently criticized the Pentagon for not doing enough to curb fraud, waste and abuse by employees using government credit cards for travel.
 One of the more egregious examples they found was a civilian Defense Department employee who flew himself and three family members in first and business class when they moved to Honolulu from London.
 The premium-fare tickets, which no one had authorized, cost almost $21,000, compared with $2,500 for comparable coach-class tickets.

This feature about places to stay, eat and visit in leading business destinations appears every Tuesday.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 22, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption with the On the Ground column in the Business Travel pages on Tuesday, about Honolulu, misspelled the name of a hotel. As the column said it is the Ihilani Resort and Spa, not the Ilihani Resort and Spa.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Ilihani Resort and Spa, on the sunny western shore of Oahu, is 30 minutes from downtown Honolulu. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); AIRLINES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (89%); BEACHES (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); AIRPORT OPERATION (76%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); RESORTS (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (68%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (67%); VENTURE CAPITAL (57%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES 

PERSON: STEIN, MARK A 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (97%) HAWAII, USA (97%); WEST USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) HONOLULU (HAWAII); 

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2003 



425 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
WorldMarkets Decline; Fear of More Terrorism a Factor

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
New fears of terrorism sent stock markets tumbling around the world yesterday and extended the sell-off on Wall Street into a second week.
 United States investors reacted to market declines in Japan and Europe after reports that an obscure terrorist group linked to Al Qaeda had claimed responsibility for weekend bombing attacks in Turkey and had named Japan and other United States allies as potential targets. But analysts said some of the market's slide was because of normal profit-taking. 
 The Dow Jones industrials plunged more than 160 points before regaining ground late in the session, despite a better-than-expected report on business inventories and news that several companies were in merger talks. 
 "This market is vulnerable to good news, bad news or no news, so certainly the news of terrorist activity over the weekend and new threats from Al Qaeda will provoke a reaction," said Alfred E. Goldman, chief market strategist at A.G. Edwards & Sons. "But I do not see a serious downside from here; there's too much good going on."
 The Dow ended the day down 57.85 points, or 0.6 percent, at 9,710.83, after a decline last week of 0.4 percent.
 The broader market indexes also fell. The Nasdaq composite index closed down 20.65 points, or 1.1 percent, at 1,909.61, after a weekly drop of 2.1 percent. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 6.72 points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 1,043.63, after falling 0.3 percent last week.
 In Tokyo, government leaders shrugged off the latest terrorist threats, but the Nikkei 225-stock average lurched to a three-month low after the reports about Al Qaeda, closing down 3.7 percent.
 European markets followed. The CAC-40 of France lost 2.6 percent, the FTSE 100 of Britain fell 1.3 percent and the DAX index of Germany was down 3.2 percent.
 A Commerce Department report showed America's businesses increased their stockpiles of unsold goods in September for the first time in six months, a sign that companies may be feeling more confident about the recovery. Economists were expecting inventories to be flat in September.
 Financial services companies were under pressure related to the investigation of mutual fund trading practices. Morgan Stanley, which saw earlier declines, gained 9 cents to close at $55.03 after federal regulators said it had agreed to change some trading practices and pay a $50 million penalty to settle charges.
 Several companies were in merger talks but that did little to raise the major indexes.
 Travelers Property Casualty announced that it would combine with the St. Paul Companies in a $16 billion stock deal. St. Paul was up 97 cents at $37.74 on the news. Travelers' Class A shares were unchanged at $16.03; Class B shares fell 2 cents to $16.04.
 Also, the auto parts maker ArvinMeritor said it would increase its hostile takeover bid for Dana. ArvinMeritor lost 12 cents, falling to $17.94; Dana dropped $1.41, or 8.5 percent, to close at $15.24.
 And Sun Microsystems announced that it was planning a partnership with Advanced Micro Devices, an alliance that could help the two smaller companies better compete against larger producers like Intel. Sun lost 2 cents to close at $4.08. AMD fell 50 cents to $17.36, and Intel shed 57 cents to close at $32.23.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Climb
By Reuters
 Treasury prices rose yesterday as investors fled sliding stocks and sought safety in bonds, pushing benchmark yields down to six-week lows. A round of profit-taking pulled the market back from its best levels, however. Analysts said investors were reluctant to push yields (which move in the opposite direction of bond prices) lower as long as evidence points to a recovery. 
 "It's a pretty straightforward case of weak equities helping bonds, but there's still the feeling that we're running up against some kind of a brick wall and that's why prices were unable to push a whole lot higher," said Anthony Karydakis, senior financial economist at Banc One Capital Markets.
 By late in the day, the benchmark 10-year note gained 7/32, to 100 15/32; its yield fell to 4.19 percent from 4.22 percent on Friday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.764	99.489	High Rate	0.935	1.010	Investment Rate	0.951	1.033	Low Rate	0.900	0.980	Median Rate	0.925	1.005	Total applied for	$45,062,348	$45,211,292	Accepted	$22,053,273	$21,893,360	Noncompetitive	$1,331,480	$1,023,576	

Both issues are dated Nov. 20. The three-month bills mature on Feb. 19, and the six-month bills on May 20, 2004.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); TERRORISM (94%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); MERGERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: TRAVELERS COS INC (80%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%)

TICKER: TRV (NYSE) (80%); MS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (80%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (80%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); TURKEY (92%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2003 



426 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2087 words

HEADLINE: CHINA SET TO ACT ON FUEL ECONOMY 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: GUANGZHOU, China, Nov. 17 

 BODY:
The Chinese government is preparing to impose minimum fuel economy standards on new cars for the first time, and the rules will be significantly more stringent than those in the United States, according to Chinese experts involved in drafting them.
 The new standards are intended both to save energy and to force automakers to introduce the latest hybrid engines and other technology in China, in hopes of easing the nation's swiftly rising dependence on oil imports from volatile countries in the Middle East. 
 They are the latest and most ambitious in a series of steps to regulate China's rapidly growing auto industry, after moves earlier this year to require that air bags be provided for both front-seat occupants in most new vehicles and that new family vehicles sold in major cities meet air pollution standards nearly as strict as those in Western Europe and the United States. 
 Some popular vehicles now built in China by Western automakers, including the Chevrolet Blazer, do not measure up to the standards the government has drafted, and may have to be modified to get better gas mileage before the first phase of the new rules becomes effective in July 2005. 
 The Chinese initiative comes at a time when Congress is close to completing work on a major energy bill that would make no significant changes in America's fuel economy rules for vehicles. The Chinese standards, in general, call for new cars, vans and sport utility vehicles to get as much as two miles a gallon of fuel more in 2005 than the average required in the United States, and about five miles more in 2008. 
 This country's economy is booming, and a growing upper class in big cities like this one is rapidly buying all the accouterments of a prosperous Western life, including cars. As China burns more fossil fuels, both in factories and in a rapidly growing fleet of motor vehicles, its contribution to global warming is also rising faster than any other country's.
 But Zhang Jianwei, the vice president and top technical official of the Chinese agency that writes vehicle standards, said in a telephone interview on Monday that energy security was the paramount concern in drafting the new automotive fuel economy rules, and that global warming had received little attention.
 "China has become an important importer of oil so it has to have regulations to save energy," said Mr. Zhang, who is also deputy secretary of the 39-member interagency committee that approved the rules at a meeting this month. 
 China was a net oil exporter until a decade ago, but its output has not kept up with soaring demand. It now depends on imports of oil for one-third of its needs, mainly from Saudi Arabia and Angola. Before the war, Iraq was also an important supplier. By comparison, the United States now imports about 55 percent of the oil it uses.
 The International Energy Agency in Paris predicts that by 2030, the volume of China's oil imports will equal American imports now. Chinese strategists have expressed growing worry about depending on a lifeline of oil tankers stretching across the Indian Ocean, through the Strait of Malacca, a waterway plagued by piracy, and across the South China Sea, protected mainly by the United States Navy. 
 Various Chinese government agencies still have three months to review the legal language in the fuel economy rules, giving automakers some time to lobby against them; as yet, there has been no mention of the approval of the new rules in the government-controlled Chinese media.
 But Mr. Zhang said that the rules in draft form were the product of a very strong consensus among government agencies and that "the technical content won't be changed."
 Two executives at Volkswagen, the largest foreign automaker in China, said that representatives of their company and of domestic Chinese automakers attended what they described as the final interagency meeting to approve the rules. Under pressure from the government, these auto industry representatives agreed to the new rules despite misgivings, the executives said. "They had no choice but to agree," one of the Volkswagen executives added. 
 The executive said that Volkswagen's vehicles would meet the first phase of the standards in 2005, while declining to comment on compliance with the second, more rigorous phase, to take effect in July 2008.
 The new standards are based on a vehicle's weight -- lighter vehicles must go the farthest on a gallon -- and on the type of transmission, with manual-shift cars required to go farther than those with less efficient automatic transmissions. 
 In a major departure from American practice, all new sport utility vehicles and minivans in China would be required to meet the same standards as automatic-shift cars of the same weight. In the United States, standards for sport utilities and minivans are much lower than for cars.
 The Chinese rules do not cover pickups or commercial trucks. According to General Motors market research, there is little demand for pickup trucks in China except from businesses, because the affluent urban consumer who can afford a new vehicle regards pickup trucks as unsophisticated and too reminiscent of the horse-drawn carts still used in some rural areas. 
 Typically, heavy vehicles are much harder on fuel than light ones, but the new Chinese standards permit the heavy vehicles to get only slightly worse gas mileage. As a result, they provide an incentive for manufacturers to offer smaller, lighter vehicles, which will be easier to design.
 The new standards would require all small cars sold in China to achieve slightly better gas mileage than the average new small car sold in the United States now gets, according to calculations by An Feng, a transportation consultant who advised the government on the rules. But officials in Beijing would require much better minimum gas mileage for minivans and, especially, S.U.V.'s than the average vehicle of either type now gets in the United States.
 American regulations call for each automaker to produce a fleet of passenger cars with an average fuel economy of 27.5 miles a gallon under a combination of city and highway driving with no traffic; window-sticker values for gas mileage, which include the effects of traffic, are about 15 percent lower. Light trucks, including vans, S.U.V.'s and pickups, are allowed an average of 20.7 miles a gallon without traffic.
 But the Bush administration has raised the standard to 22.2 miles a gallon for the 2007 model year and is reviewing whether to raise light truck limits further for 2008. It is also considering adopting different standards for different weight classes of light trucks, but only Congress can change rules for passenger cars.
 Over all, average fuel economy in the United States has been eroding since the late 1980's as automakers shifted production from cars to light trucks. It fell in the 2002 model year to the lowest level since 1980. Automakers in Europe have accepted European Union demands to increase fuel economy under different rules that could prove at least as stringent as China's minimums.
 The Chinese standards would require the greatest increases for full-size S.U.V.'s like the Ford Expedition, which would have to go as much as 29 percent farther on a gallon of fuel in 2008 than they do now in the United States, Mr. An calculated. Sport utility sales in China have more than doubled so far this year, but are still a much smaller part of the overall market than they are in the United States.
 Because the American standards are fleet averages while the Chinese standards are minimums for each vehicle, the effect of the Chinese rules could be considerably more stringent. A manufacturer can sell vehicles in the United States that are far below average in fuel efficiency if it has others in its product line that offset it by being above average. But under the Chinese rules, the fuel-inefficient models -- especially new ones introduced after the standards take effect -- would be subject to fines no matter how well their siblings do, Mr. Zhang said, and the maker would not be allowed to expand production of the gas-guzzling models. In Garrison Keillor's phrase, China plans to require that every vehicle be above average.
 Mr. An said that at the final meetings on the new rules, the only outspoken objections had come from a representative of the Beijing Automotive Industry Holding Company, which makes Jeeps in a joint venture with DaimlerChrysler.
 According to people who have seen the new standards, many Jeep models sold in China do not now comply with them; neither do the Chevrolet Blazer sport utilities built by a General Motors joint venture in Shenyang. Some of Volkswagen's car models also fall slightly short, these people said. By contrast, Honda's cars, built at a sprawling factory complex here in Guangzhou, the commercial hub of southern China, would comply easily because they use advanced engine technology, these people said.
 Trevor Hale, a DaimlerChrysler spokesman, declined to comment in detail. "DaimlerChrysler complies with local regulations where it does business," Mr. Hale said in an e-mail response to an inquiry. "It continues working to improve fuel economy in the vehicles it develops, builds and sells around the world."
 Bernd Leissner, the president of Volkswagen Asia Pacific, said that his company's cars would comply because "it's just a question of how to adapt the engine -- it's something that could be done quickly."
 The fastest way to improve fuel efficiency is to switch from gasoline to diesel engines, as Volkswagen is starting to do in China. The latest diesel engines are much cleaner than those of a decade ago, but are still more polluting than gasoline engines of similar power. 
 A spokeswoman for General Motors, which is beginning to introduce Cadillac luxury cars in China, said she did not have enough information about the newly drafted rules to comment on them, but that her company's vehicles were comparable in fuel economy to those of rival manufacturers in the same market segments. Executives of G.M. were preparing for an event in Beijing on Tuesday and Wednesday when the company plans to showcase examples of its work on gasoline-saving fuel-cell and hybrid engines for cars. 
 In the United States, G.M. has argued that tighter fuel economy rules are unnecessary because technological improvements will someday improve efficiency anyway. G.M. and other automakers have also contended in the United States that higher gasoline taxes would represent a better policy than higher gas mileage standards, because it would give drivers an economic incentive to choose more efficient vehicles and to drive fewer miles.
 China is still considering its policy on fuel taxes, but has not acted so far, because higher fuel taxes would impose higher costs on many sections of society, Mr. Zhang said.
 Another company that could run into trouble over the Chinese mileage standards is Toyota, which on Nov. 6 began selling a locally produced version of its full-size Land Cruiser sport utility vehicle in China. A spokesman said on Monday that Toyota had not yet heard about the new Chinese fuel economy regulations, which have been prepared with a level of secrecy typical of many Chinese regulatory actions.
 Japan is also phasing in new fuel efficiency rules based on weight that allow heavier vehicles only slightly worse gas mileage than lighter ones. American automakers have complained that the Japanese rules discriminate against them because Japanese automakers tend to produce slightly lighter cars anyway. 
 China has more than 100 automakers, as Detroit did a century ago, but the bulk of its output comes from a small number of joint ventures with multinational companies. Total production has more than doubled in the last three years, to about 3.8 million cars and light trucks in 2002, nearly as many as Germany. The United States builds about 12 million a year, Japan about 10 million. Chinese car output is rising so fast that even with better fuel efficiency per vehicle, oil consumption and emissions of global warming gases will keep rising.
 The cars that Chinese automakers produce on their own tend to be small and lightweight, but the engines are built on older technology and may not have an easy time complying with the fuel economy standards.
 The government has been encouraging the industry to consolidate, and the new rules may hasten that process by forcing investment in engine designs that small companies may not be able to afford on their own.

GRAPHIC: Photo: With car ownership in Chinese cities growing, traffic clogged a Beijing perimeter road last month. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. C6) Chart: "Raising the Bar"The Chinese government plans to impose standards that would require most family vehicles to have better minimum gasoline mileage than the average mileage for comparable vehicles in the United States. Here are the planned Chinese fuel economy standards for the weight categories that correspond to the average weights of certain sizes of American vehicles. United States vehicle categoryChinese vehicle weight category MILES PER GALLON, BY TRANSMISSION*Small cars Weight: 2,910-3,153 lbs.Current U.S. average: 30.9Chinese minimum, 2005Automatic: 30.7Manual: 32.5Chinese minimum, 2008Automatic: 33.5Manual: 35.7 Large cars -- 3,395-3,660 lbs.Current U.S. average: 27.2Chinese minimum, 2005Automatic: 27.4Manual: 29.1Chinese minimum, 2008Automatic: 30.4Manual: 32.3 Vans -- 4,145-4,409 lbs.Current U.S. average: 22.9Chinese minimum, 2005: 24.1Chinese minimum, 2008: 26.9 Sport utility vehicles -- 4,409-4,652 lbs.Current U.S. average: 20.8Chinese minimum, 2005: 23.5Chinese minimum, 2008: 26.1 Large S.U.V.'s -- 5,534 lbs. or moreCurrent U.S. average: 17.3+Chinese minimum, 2005: 20.0Chinese minimum, 2008: 22.3 *In China, manual transmissions for cars will have higher fuel economy requirements; the requirements for vans and S.U.V.'s are the same for manual and automatic transmissions.+Based on a Ford Expedition (Source by An Feng, a transportation consultant)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (73%); FAMILY (73%); AIR QUALITY (69%); AIR POLLUTION (69%); APPROVALS (67%); INTERVIEWS (66%) AUTOMOBILES; FUEL EFFICIENCY; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; AIR BAGS; AUTOMOBILE SAFETY FEATURES AND DEFECTS; VANS 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (78%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2003 



427 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-14

U.S. Troops to Pull Back From a Hostile City in Iraq
American commanders are preparing to pull their troops back from the city of Ramadi, a center of guerrilla activity, and turn it over to Iraqi security officers, an experiment that could change the course of the occupation of Iraq. A1

Plea Bargains at U.N. Tribunal
The United Nations tribunal for the 1990's war crimes in the Balkans is rushing through its backlog of cases, adopting a controversial strategy to promote plea bargains with much reduced sentences in exchange for cooperation and guilty pleas. A1

Closing In on ID of Bombers
Turkish officials said that they were close to identifying the suicide bombers who attacked two synagogues in Istanbul on Saturday. A3

Western Split Over Iran Widens
The foreign policy chief of the European Union said the Iranian government had been honest about its nuclear work, widening the split between Europe and the United States over Iran's nuclear program. A4

U.S. Intelligence Is Reassessed
A broad United States government reappraisal of intelligence about illicit weapons programs around the world is prompting a softening of some earlier judgments about foreign arsenals, according to several American officials. A13

Palestinians Agree to Talks
A senior Egyptian mediator reached agreement with Palestinian leaders to start cease-fire talks among militant groups within two days, Palestinian officials said. A10

Rumsfeld Reassures Koreans
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld reassured South Korea that efforts to reorganize American forces would not diminish the capacity to deter aggression by the North. A10

NATIONAL A16-22

AARP Gives Its Support To Medicare Drug Plan
AARP threw its weight behind a bill that offers drug benefits to the elderly as part of the biggest transformation of Medicare in the history of the program. A1

Critics of the Medicare plan said it contained little to halt rising costs of drugs and medical services. A18

First Sniper Trial Closes
A jury convicted John A. Muhammad of murdering a man last fall as part of a plot to extort money from the government in a Washington-area shooting spree. A1

A judge's ruling against use of a 911 tape in the trial of Lee Malvo, the younger suspect in the sniper shootings, highlights the differences in the theories being pursued by prosecutors in the two cases. A20

Schwarzenegger Is Sworn In
Arnold Schwarzenegger took the oath of office as governor of California, continuing his role as a bigger-than-life celebrity. A16

Big Energy Bill Advances
A House-Senate conference committee sped a more than $30 billion energy bill to the House and Senate floors after Republicans defeated a series of Democratic efforts to eliminate provisions that have stirred opposition by conservation groups. A20

Hepatitis Outbreak Mystifies
Despite weeks of interviews, state officials and federal officials say they are no closer to pinning down the source of a recent hepatitis outbreak in Pennsylvania. A22

Affirmative Action Dispute
An affirmative action dispute within the Supreme Court broke out when two justices dissented from the court's refusal to take up a white-owned company's challenge to a program in Denver. A19

NEW YORK/REGION B1-9

Brooklyn Democrats Named In Inquiry Into Judgeships
Prosecutors have obtained the indictments of Brooklyn's top two Democratic officials on charges that they tried to strong-arm judicial candidates into hiring favored consultants, law enforcement officials said. B1

Jury Exonerates Officers
A federal jury said that New York City and five police officers were not liable for the shooting four years ago of an emotionally disturbed man, who was clutching a hammer on the sidewalk outside his apartment. B1

Neediest Cases B5

FASHION B10

SCIENCE TIMES F1-10

Warning About a Blood Disease
Hundreds of blood recipients may be infected with Chagas disease, an untreatable infection that weakens the heart and intestines and kills 50,000 people a year in Latin America, public health experts say. F1

Health & Fitness F5

OBITUARIES A23

SPORTS D1-7

ARTS E1-8

Showtime Moves Up 'Reagans'
Showtime pay-cable channel has decided to show "The Reagans" on Nov. 30, just two weeks after it would have been broadcast on CBS. E4

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

China to Adopt Fuel Standard
China is preparing to impose tough minimum fuel-economy standards on new cars for the first time. A1

Media Baron to Sell Company
Conrad M. Black is quitting as chief executive of Hollinger International after a revelation that he and his partners received $15.6 million in unauthorized payments. A1

Fund Redirects Commissions
MFS Investment Management suspended its longtime practice of directing brokerage commissions to securities firms that sell its mutual funds or bring it new clients. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: A shortage of energy; The Hammer eyes Manhattan; political will can stop the plant; Brent Staples on the black Seminoles.

Columns: Paul Krugman, David Brooks.

Crossword E8
TV Listings E7
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (88%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); JURY TRIALS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); SENTENCING (76%); GUILTY PLEAS (76%); VERDICTS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); EXTORTION (71%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (71%); WAR CRIMES (71%); JUDGES (70%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (68%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (63%); HEPATITIS (61%); MURDER (56%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); EUROPE (92%); TURKEY (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2003 



428 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
China to Impose Standards For Fuel Economy on Cars
The Chinese government is preparing to impose minimum fuel-economy standards on new cars for the first time, and the rules will be significantly more stringent than those in the United States, according to Chinese experts involved in drafting them.
 The new standards are intended both to save energy and to force automakers to introduce the latest hybrid engines and other technology, in hopes of easing China's swiftly rising dependence on oil imports from volatile countries in the Middle East. They are the latest and most ambitious in a series of moves to regulate China's rapidly growing auto industry. Page A1. 

Newspaper Baron Quits Under Fire
Conrad M. Black, the Canadian media baron who sought to build a global collection of newspapers with a conservative bent, is quitting as chief executive and putting his company up for sale after an internal investigation disclosed that he and his partners had received $15.6 million in unauthorized payments. A sale of the company, Hollinger International, either as a whole or in parts, would likely bring to an end Lord Black's big-media ambitions. A1.

AARP Supports Medicare Bill
AARP, the largest and most influential organization of older Americans, threw its weight behind a bill that offers drug benefits to the elderly as part of the biggest transformation of Medicare in its 38-year history. A1.

Shares Fall on Terrorism Fears
New fears of terrorism sent stock markets tumbling around the world and extended the sell-off on Wall Street into a second week. The Dow ended down 57.85 points, or 0.6 percent, at 9,710.83. The Nasdaq composite index closed down 20.65 points, or 1.1 percent, at 1,909.61. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 6.72 points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 1,043.63. C12.

New Copier Line From Hewlett
Hewlett-Packard is king in the land of computer printers, but for years it has eyed the nearby office copier as an enticing market to conquer. Today, the company is introducing a line of powerful printers that double as copiers, hoping to capture a sizable slice of the $24-billion-a-year copier market. C10.

Loss Widens at Toys 'R' Us
Toys "R" Us said its third-quarter loss widened because of higher overhead and stagnant sales, and it announced plans to close 182 Kids "R" Us and Imaginarium stores, eliminating up to 3,800 jobs. C4.

ArvinMeritor Raises Bid for Dana
The auto supplier ArvinMeritor made what it indicated would be its final offer for Dana, raising its hostile bid by 20 percent, to $18 a share. Dana's board is reviewing the revised offer, which now values Dana at $2.68 billion. Dana advised shareholders to wait until the board made its decision before they decided. Since the first bid, Dana's shares have consistently traded above $15. Before the offer, they sold at around $10 each. C4.

The Chrysler Group unveiled eight of its nine new or redesigned vehicles due next year, a product wave executives say will revive the company's fortunes. C4.

Europe to Examine Software Deal
The European Commission has opened an investigation into whether Oracle's hostile $7.3 billion bid to take over PeopleSoft would create a company that would dominate markets in Europe. World Business, Section W.

Not-So-User-Friendly Hotels
Some hotels, in their zeal to offer the latest in technology and amenities, have befuddled some guests. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. C9.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,710.83 down 57.85Nasdaq composite -- 1,909.61 down 20.6510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.19% down 0.03The euro -- $1.1766 down 0.0013The dollar -- 108.95 yen up 0.70 Graph: "TODAY" shows consumer price index.October figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.1% Graph tracks share prices of Dana for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (89%); PHOTOCOPIERS (88%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (88%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); TAKEOVERS (73%); MEDICARE (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); TERRORISM (64%); CLOSINGS (63%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (61%); EXECUTIVES (53%); INVESTIGATIONS (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (55%); MERITOR INC (55%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%); TOYS 'R' US INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (82%)

TICKER: MTOR (NYSE) (55%); HPQ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (51%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2003 



429 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: More Action Over Fund Practices 

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
The oldest mutual fund company in the nation, and one of the largest, has suspended its longtime practice of directing brokerage commissions to securities firms that sell its funds or bring it new clients, according to a brokerage firm executive apprised of the change last week. 
 The move was made by MFS Investment Management, whose funds are sold exclusively by brokers at securities firms or by financial planners. The action suggests that concern is growing among fund companies that this widespread industry practice is attracting regulatory scrutiny for possible conflicts of interest. 
 A spokesman for MFS in Boston declined to comment on its directed brokerage practices. But a securities firm executive who has received directed commissions from MFS in the past said that the company instituted a 90-day moratorium on the practice last week as it tried to sort out how securities regulators' views might be changing. 
 If regulators discourage the practice, fund experts say, mutual funds sold by brokers would lose their biggest backers and be forced to compete for investor dollars on performance alone. Another possible result might be lower commissions by fund managers and a commensurate decline in mutual fund costs. More than two-thirds of funds are sold by brokers or financial advisers. 
 Yesterday, Morgan Stanley settled a suit brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission and NASD, which said the firm had set up preferential arrangements with 16 mutual fund companies. Among other things, the complaint said that fund managers paid higher fees and commissions to Morgan Stanley in exchange for the firm's brokers selling those funds.
 The action was the second against Morgan Stanley in the last two months by NASD over mutual fund practices. Morgan Stanley neither admitted nor denied the allegations but agreed to pay $50 million in penalties and surrendered profits. Regulators will distribute the money to certain Morgan Stanley customers.
 "Investors expect and are entitled to informed, objective and untainted recommendations from their brokers and their firms when it comes to which mutual funds to buy," said Mary L. Schapiro, president of NASD Regulatory Policy and Oversight. "Today's enforcement actions send a clear message that those who choose to embrace commissions, higher payouts and extra bonuses over their duty to render conflict-free advice to their customers will be sanctioned in the strongest of terms."
 The suit against Morgan Stanley sheds light on the longstanding mutual fund industry practice known as directed brokerage, which occurs when portfolio managers designate that a specific brokerage firm receive commissions by executing their fund's trades. Critics call it a pay-to-play arrangement. It is similar to the deals that food companies have with supermarkets that place their products on crowded shelves for a fee.
 But such arrangements are coming under regulatory scrutiny as the mutual fund scandal spreads. NASD is conducting more than two dozen investigations involving brokerage firms that received commissions from fund managers in exchange for offering to sell their funds to the firms' clients, according to an official. These investigations include discount brokerage firms and fund distributors.
 Critics of the practice say that by directing commissions to brokers who sell fund shares, fund managers are enriching themselves at their investors' expense. That is because commission dollars paid to execute trades are an asset of the funds' investors and come right out of their pockets. When a manager uses investors' property to increase a fund's size, he or she benefits because management fees are based on the assets overseen by the manager. 
 Those who are critical of the practice also say it is one of the main reasons that mutual fund costs have remained high despite competition in the industry and economies of scale among big fund companies. By directing trades to brokers selling their funds, managers receive something in return and are therefore less likely to push securities firms to execute trades at lower commissions, critics say. 
 "A mutual fund manager is somebody who should not be a Wall Street insider," said Max Rottersman, president of FundExpenses.com, which analyzes fund costs for institutional clients. "What they should be is a representative of the fund shareholder and out to get the best performance and lowest costs possible for their trades. When they're pulling money right out of the portfolio to generate sales, they've sold their souls to the devil." 
 Mutual fund companies that direct commissions to brokers selling their funds disclose the arrangements in filings but may not specify how much money is paid under the deals. For example, a recent MFS filing stated: "Consistent with the advisory agreement and applicable rules and regulations, the adviser may consider sales of the fund and other funds or accounts of the adviser as a factor in the selection of broker-dealers to execute the fund's portfolio transactions."
 MFS is a unit of Sun Life Financial Inc., a financial services company based in Toronto. It is the oldest mutual fund company in the country, having started its first fund, the Massachusetts Investment Trust, in 1924. MFS manages roughly $100 billion for more than six million investors and has about 100 mutual fund portfolios. 
 Mutual fund watchers say that as the brokerage business consolidated in recent years, thousands of funds were pursuing shelf space on fewer and fewer brokers' shelves. This caused pay-to-play practices among funds to become much more heated. 
 "It's all part of the fund industry's attitude of assets at any cost," Mr. Rottersman said.
 NASD says it designed the rule prohibiting firms from favoring particular mutual funds on the basis of brokerage commissions to help eliminate conflicts of interest in fund sales. NASD oversees only its brokerage firm members; many mutual fund companies are not brokerage firms and are regulated by the S.E.C. 
 But even with such a rule on the NASD books, brokerage firms have received commissions in exchange for selling their funds to clients. While the rule prohibits an explicit quid pro quo, where sales of a fund's shares are promised in exchange for directed commissions from the fund, brokerage firm executives say such promises are rarely made in writing between fund companies and the firms that sell their offerings.
 Furthermore, as long as the mutual fund manager can claim that the commissions paid to the securities firm for executing the trades were in line with those charged by other firms, he or she can argue that directing the commissions did not place fund shareholders at a disadvantage.
 But regulators appear to be toughening their stance. In its suit against Morgan Stanley, NASD said that mutual fund companies paid the firm as much as 0.20 percent extra on each fund sale for the preferential treatment they received from the firm's brokers.
 This extra compensation, NASD said, included millions of dollars in commissions paid by the mutual funds to Morgan Stanley. "These commissions were sufficiently large," NASD said, "to pay for the special treatment, as well as the costs of trade execution." 
 From January 2000 until this year, regulators said, Morgan Stanley operated two programs in which it gave favorable treatment to products offered by 16 mutual fund companies. This included placement on a preferred list of funds recommended by Morgan Stanley brokers, better access to the firm's sales force and branch managers, and higher visibility on the firm's workstations compared with nonpaying funds, regulators said. 
 Stephen M. Cutler, who heads the S.E.C.'s enforcement division said: "Unbeknownst to Morgan Stanley's customers, Morgan Stanley received monetary incentives -- in the form of 'shelf space' payments -- to sell particular mutual funds to its customers. When customers purchase mutual funds, they should understand the nature and extent of any conflicts of interest that may affect the transaction." 
 The agency also claimed that Morgan Stanley brokers, in recommending different types of funds to investors, did not disclose that certain share classes carried higher fees and could have a detrimental impact on investor returns. 
 Last September, Morgan Stanley was censured and fined by NASD for promoting the sale of its own mutual funds by sponsoring sales contests among its brokers and managers. Regulators prohibit such contests. In settling that case, Morgan Stanley neither admitted nor denied the allegations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (96%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (91%); SECURITIES BROKERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LITIGATION (87%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); ETHICS (75%); DEREGULATION (75%); SCANDALS (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); BONDS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (65%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (62%) STOCKS AND BONDS; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ETHICS; MUTUAL FUNDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; SUITS AND LITIGATION; SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES VIOLATIONS 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (92%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (82%) MFS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT; MORGAN STANLEY; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION; NASD 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%) SIC6289 OTHER SECURITIES & COMMODITIES SERVICES; 

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (50%) MORGENSON, GRETCHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2003 



430 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1797 words

HEADLINE: If Claude Bebear Speaks, French Companies Listen 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 14 

 BODY:
When outraged shareholders ousted the chairman of the big French chemical company Rhodia last month, accusing him of gross mismanagement, the spotlight focused on a man seen as being behind the shake-up, a man with no official role at the company but with a great deal of influence in French business.
 That man is Claude Bebear, the 68-year-old chairman of the AXA insurance group, who is described alternately as one of France's foremost champions of good corporate governance or as a sinister "godfather" of old-style crony capitalism. As is often the case with companies in the news here, most of Rhodia's management and most executives at its principal shareholder, the drug company Aventis, are associates of his. 
 Mr. Bebear (pronounced bay-bay-ARE) admits to playing some role in the Rhodia shake-up: last spring, the head of a shareholders' association asked him to convey a message to the chairman, Jean-Pierre Tirouflet, and he agreed to do so. Yet he vigorously denies any pivotal role. 
 With equal force he rejects the title of godfather. "When a godfather of the mafia speaks," he said, punctuating a recent conversation with a characteristic hearty laugh, "you follow his counsels."
 (Though no one is saying exactly what the message was, speculation is that Mr. Bebear was to ask Mr. Tirouflet to leave peaceably. Five months later, Mr. Tirouflet was out.)
 In fact, Mr. Bebear's career illustrates both a penchant for cronyism and a bent for breaking with traditions of French corporate coziness. However it is seen, he has great, often behind-the-scenes, power.
 Mr. Bebear, who entertains visitors in his spacious office in the painstakingly restored 17th-century Parisian palace that is his company's headquarters, ran AXA for decades, molding it from a small, regional insurance company into a financial giant. That has given him influence in French business. Though he gave up his chief executive post three years ago, he remains AXA's chairman.
 As a young executive, he founded a discussion club, Enterprises et Cite, that now includes a sampling of the French business elite. Among them are Henri Lachmann, chairman of the big Schneider electrical products group; the chairman of Vivendi Universal, Jean-Rene Fourtou; and Thierry Breton, the France Telecom chairman. The network extends beyond finance to politics, and includes the president of the French Senate, Christian Poncelet. That gave Mr. Bebear an edge in nudging the French banking system toward greater consolidation in the late 1990's.
 Mr. Bebear was also largely responsible for AXA's -- and French finance's -- expansion overseas. In 1991, he stormed the United States with a $1 billion investment in the Equitable Life Assurance group, a business he later turned into an AXA unit. That gave him credibility in international finance and helped him install Mr. Fourtou last year as Vivendi's chairman, to replace Jean-Marie Messier, who was ousted after Vivendi was crushed by debt from an acquisition spree that involved big American deals.
 To his detractors, Mr. Bebear is a corporate puppeteer in the spirit of Ambroise Roux, who was chairman of Compagnie Generale d'Electricite and a giant of French industry in the 1980's. 
 Mr. Bebear, however, casts himself as a kind of Gallic Warren E. Buffett, committed not to capitalism's overthrow but to its improvement. 
 He supports the current drive to improve corporate governance in France, including legislation enacted last year that limits the number of boards that a corporate director can serve on and mandates board committees for auditing and executive pay, to increase corporate accountability. But he warns, "Don't fall into the excess of regulation."
 Mr. Bebear's belief in strong rules for capitalism has long been coupled with a strong sense of opportunity.
 After graduating from the prestigious Ecole Polytechnique, he went to work at a sleepy insurance company in Normandy. That company was the core for the group that would later be named AXA, built by picking up acquisitions at advantageous moments.
 His 1996 acquisition of the Union des Assurances de Paris, or UAP, the big French insurer that successive governments had used to park stakes in privatized companies considered of national interest, gave an important impetus to the dismantling of the cross-shareholdings that characterized French capitalism. At the time, French corporations regularly owned shares in each other and sent executives onto one another's boards -- cozy relationships that were until recently still reflected at Rhodia. But Mr. Bebear sold the stock that UAP owned in big corporations like Suez, the water utility, and ordered AXA executives, himself included, to adhere to strict limits on the number of board seats they accept. 
 "A board membership should cost you a month of work a year," Mr. Bebear said. "A chief executive doesn't have one month to sacrifice."
 Mr. Bebear, a conservative dresser, sports a tiny AXA pin in his lapel, a sign of his fierce loyalty to the company he created. He is also a practicing Roman Catholic and man of strong family convictions, with a wife and five children, two adopted from South Korea. 
 He and Philippe Maniere, a French journalist, wrote a book, published this spring, titled "They're Going to Kill Capitalism", which denounces recent corporate excesses. According to Mr. Maniere, Mr. Bebear is "thoughtful, though he is not an intellectual," yet "he always has good intuitions."
 His preference for action is reflected in his passion for big-game hunting and in his favorite sport, rugby. Still, to fill time after he surrendered the job of chief executive at AXA, he founded a group -- run more as a club -- called the Montaigne Institute, where people do research and give pro-business lectures. 
 Though Mr. Maniere described Mr. Bebear as "not a person to pull strings," he acknowledged that Mr. Bebear "has a network of friends." Mr. Bebear's secret, he said, seems to be not so much financial influence as negotiating change through networking. 
 After Mr. Bebear helped oust Mr. Messier from Vivendi, Mr. Messier denounced his behind-the-scenes maneuvering in his book, "My True Journal," and called Mr. Bebear "a great hunter of big cats, not only in Africa." Some people see what Mr. Bebear calls his minimal role in Rhodia as a further example of this.
 Rhodia was born in 1998, in the heady years of big mergers and acquisitions, when the French chemical giant Rhone-Poulenc, then run by Mr. Bebear's old friend Mr. Fourtou, planned a $23 billion merger of its drug business with Hoechst of Germany to form the drug company Aventis, with Mr. Fourtou as chairman. Rhone-Poulenc bundled its chemical activities into Rhodia, then in 1999 sold a 30 percent stake on the New York and Paris stock exchanges.
 Subsequent stock sales reduced the stake in Rhodia then held by Aventis, to about 15 percent. 
 Under Mr. Tirouflet, a host of factors -- including rising prices for oil, the feedstock for most Rhodia products, and Rhodia's mounting debt from acquisitions -- pushed the company deep into the red and drove down its share price. 
 In the case of Vivendi, after Mr. Bebear intervened on behalf of disgruntled shareholders, Mr. Messier was forced out and replaced by Mr. Fourtou. At Rhodia, shareholders mounted a similar rebellion last spring against Mr. Tirouflet, who for much of his career had been Mr. Fourtou's chief financial officer at Rhone-Poulenc, and minority shareholders asked Mr. Bebear to intervene. But efforts to unseat Mr. Tirouflet were beaten back at a shareholder meeting in May. Moreover, confirmation of a seat on the Rhodia board for an independent director, Edouard Stern, which had been agreed to the previous summer, was refused.
 In late May, Mr. Stern filed suit contending among other things misuse of company information, balance sheet fraud and abuse of company assets.
 Last month, Mr. Tirouflet resigned under pressure. He was replaced as chairman by another former Rhone-Poulenc executive, Yves-Rene Nanot.
 Mr. Tirouflet, who declined to be interviewed, has said that Rhodia did nothing wrong, and that he has no comment about Mr. Bebear's intervention.
 However things play out, the Rhodia story illustrates many of the excesses in the 1990's of corporate executives, their lawyers, investment banks and auditors. And the civil lawsuit set in motion by Mr. Stern, the son-in-law of the Lazard Freres chairman, Michel David-Weill, could afford a glimpse of the dark underside of French capitalism.
 For all his critics, Mr. Bebear has many loyal defenders. Among them is Andre Levy-Lang, who has known Mr. Bebear since they were students at the Polytechnique more than 40 years ago, though he himself lost a job as a result of Mr. Bebear's dealings. In 1999, Mr. Bebear strongly supported an unsuccessful $37 billion hostile bid by Banque Nationale de Paris for two rivals, Societe Generale and Paribas. Ultimately, Banque Nationale took over just Paribas, which Mr. Levy-Lang was running at the time, and Mr. Levy-Lang was muscled out. (Though Mr. Bebear failed in his goal of a three-way merger, BNP Paribas is now Europe's largest bank, by stock market valuation.)
 Mr. Levy-Lang said that Mr. Bebear's influence may be based as much on perception as reality. "You are partly the godfather if people think you're the godfather," he said.
 Over all, he added, Mr. Bebear has "a beneficial influence," stiffening others' resolve. In the case of Vivendi, when banks and other investors opposed Mr. Messier yet feared to face him down, "Basically, Bebear gave them the courage" to act, Mr. Levy-Lang said.
 Mr. Bebear is clearly uncomfortable that he has been linked to Mr. Tirouflet's ouster from Rhodia, where so many friends hold important jobs. And he concedes that filling top jobs at French corporations appears at times like a game of musical chairs. But he insists the game may soon be over, thanks in part to growing numbers of foreign managers and directors, and also because of the dissolution of the old cross-shareholdings.
 While he welcomed France's new laws on corporate governance, describing them as "moderate," he had mixed feelings about the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the United States Congress's response to corporate financial scandals. In its favor, he said, the bill was tantamount to Congress's "slamming a fist on the table" and declaring, "I, as government, say no." But he called the bill "impracticable," saying it yielded "tons of paper and bureaucracy." The Enron debacle, he added, "would have happened under Sarbanes-Oxley."
 And ever the maverick, he rejects the notion of independent directors. Crises like those at Vivendi and Rhodia, he said, could be averted only if "shareholder meetings are more active, and directors are under pressure."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Claude Bebear, the chairman of the AXA insurance group, is a pivotal player in French capitalism. (Photo by Ed Alcock for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); CHEMICALS (78%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CHEMICALS MFG (73%); ETHICS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TRENDS (72%); ORGANIZED CRIME (69%); POLITICS (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ETHICS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: RHODIA SA (93%); AXA (92%); FRANCE TELECOM SA (85%); VIVENDI (80%); SANOFI SA (70%); ASSURANCE GROUP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AXA; RHODIA SA 

TICKER: CS (PAR) (92%); AXJ (ASX) (92%); AXA (BIT) (92%); FTE (PAR) (85%); FTE (NYSE) (85%); FTE (BIT) (85%); VIV (PAR) (80%); VIV (BIT) (80%); SNY (NYSE) (70%); SANF (BIT) (70%); SAN (PAR) (70%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325199 ALL OTHER BASIC ORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (80%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (70%) SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE; 

PERSON: BEBEAR, CLAUDE; TAGLIABUE, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (58%) FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2003 



431 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Schwarzenegger Takes Oath And Vows End to Divisions 

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER and DEAN E. MURPHY 

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Nov. 17 

 BODY:
Arnold Schwarzenegger completed an unlikely odyssey on Monday, taking the oath of office as California's 38th governor after the state's historic recall election.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger, the Austrian-born movie actor and champion bodybuilder, started his new role on the steps of the State Capitol in much the same fashion as he spent the 11-week campaign to oust Gov. Gray Davis, as a bigger-than-life celebrity. 
 The remarkable scene in placid Sacramento melded all of Mr. Schwarzenegger's many worlds: the Hollywood career that he leaves behind; the Kennedy family connections that helped sharpen his political appeal; and his new career as a Republican chief executive facing the same enormous financial problems that doomed his predecessor.
So it was that Jamie Lee Curtis, Danny DeVito and Rob Reiner were in the same crowd as Eunice Shriver and Ted Costa, the antitax crusader who initiated the recall effort that Mr. Schwarzenegger rode to Sacramento.
Mr. Schwarzenegger's every word and move were captured by 130 television cameras, many broadcasting the event around the world. Vanessa Williams, Mr. Schwarzenegger's co-star in "Eraser," sang the national anthem.
As Mr. Schwarzenegger, 56, made his way to the swearing-in with his wife, Maria Shriver, and their four children, he took the hand of his son Christopher, 6, and reminded him to smile for the cameras.
"In the 40 years that I have been associated with government, this was probably the most revolutionary," Mayor Willie L. Brown Jr. of San Francisco said when asked to describe the inauguration.
Later, in his first official act as governor, Mr. Schwarzenegger rescinded a threefold increase in the vehicle license fee. That increase, approved by Mr. Davis and the Legislature this year as part of a budget deal, helped fuel the extraordinary resentment toward Mr. Davis that culminated in his being recalled on Oct. 7.
"During the campaign," Mr. Schwarzenegger said in a statement, "I promised on Day 1 to repeal the car tax increase. Today, I am making good on that promise."
He was sworn in with his left hand on a family Bible held by Ms. Shriver, a Kennedy scion. Speaking for just 12 minutes in his inaugural address, Mr. Schwarzenegger vowed to end the partisanship that has virtually paralyzed state government. In a message in keeping with his populist campaign, he also vowed to restore confidence in government.
"This election was not about replacing one man," Mr. Schwarzenegger said before a crowd of 7,000 invited guests. "It was not about replacing one party. It was about changing the entire political climate of our state."
Mr. Schwarzenegger, who moved to the United States from Austria 35 years ago, seized the governor's chair from Mr. Davis, a lifelong politician who was driven from office by anger over Sacramento's inability to deal with fiscal and energy crises.
It was precisely one year ago on Monday that Mr. Costa, the antitax crusader, convened a meeting here to discuss a recall drive against Mr. Davis, who had just won re-election to a second term. Mr. Costa, who has been involved in state politics for 25 years, attended the ceremony on Monday, his first inauguration.
"Now Arnold Schwarzenegger gets the hot rock," Mr. Costa said. "He will have to work long and hard, a lot longer and harder than we worked."
Mr. Costa, like many recall supporters in attendance, spoke glowingly of Mr. Schwarzenegger's remarks.
"He said the magic words," Mr. Costa said. "He said the people are the boss. And he works for the people."
But others in the audience expressed disappointment with the debut. Alex Lightman, an executive from Santa Monica, said the new governor was long on rhetorical flourishes and short on specific solutions about repairing the economy.
"I love Arnold," Mr. Lightman said. "I voted for him. But people have to hold him to a standard. He doesn't get a pass."
In his address, Mr. Schwarzenegger praised Mr. Davis and his aides for a smooth transition, and Mr. Davis's hand was among the first the new governor shook after taking office. 
"With the eyes of the world upon us," Mr. Schwarzenegger said, "we did the dramatic. Now we must put the rancor of the past behind us and do the extraordinary."
Before Mr. Schwarzenegger took his oath of office, Ms. Shriver read from a Maya Angelou poem. 
Several of Mr. Schwarzenegger's Hollywood friends and co-stars were in the crowd, including Tom Arnold, Linda Hamilton and Rob Lowe, as well as Ms. Curtis, Mr. DeVito and Mr. Reiner.
But the star factor over all was quite modest. Mr. Schwarzenegger's speech, indeed the entire ceremony, was deliberately nontriumphal, his aides said. They said self-congratulation was not appropriate in the midst of a fiscal crisis and after a wrenching recall campaign. The transfer of power was officially referred to as a swearing-in, not an inaugural, and apart from three luncheons in the afternoon no celebratory balls or parties were planned.
"Obviously," said David Gilliard, a Republican strategist who helped run a main recall group, "we are all happy to be here. But people understand the gravity of the situation." 
Some Democrats took issue with the suggestion that the events were subdued. An adviser to the state Democratic Party, Bob Mulholland, said the ceremony was "good enough for King Arnold," and he complained that the tone was imperious.
"It was low key, yes," Mr. Mulholland said. "But with 7,500 tickets and V.I.P. parking."
Mr. Schwarzenegger said he was convening a session of the Legislature to address the budget crisis and propose revisions to the costly workers compensation system.
He called on members of both parties in the Democratic-controlled Legislature to work with him to improve the state's fiscal condition and business climate, which he described as the worst in the nation.
Mr. Schwarzenegger referred to his years as a bodybuilder and said training and competition had taught him that there was always a reserve of strength.
"What I learned," he said, "is that we are always stronger than we know. California is like that, too.
"Things may get harder before they get better. But I have never been afraid of the struggle."
Some Democrats predicted that the fractious Legislature would defer to Mr. Schwarzenegger, at least at first. 
"Everyone's going to give him a running start," said Senator Dean Florez, a Democrat from a district that runs from Bakersfield to Fresno. 
Mr. Costa, the recall founder, said that recall advocates were watching closely and that if Mr. Schwarzenegger did not live up to his promise, "then we will be taking him to the woodshed."
But, Mr. Costa added, it was too early for such talk.
"I think he is up to the job," Mr. Costa said. "If we are going to go down 40 miles of bad road, which we are, you want to go down in a Hummer."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Arnold Schwarzenegger on the way to his swearing-in yesterday in the State Capitol in Sacramento with his wife, Maria Shriver, and their children, from left, Christopher, 6; Patrick, 10; Katherine, 13; and Christina, 12. Father reminded Christopher to smile for the cameras. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); VEHICLE LICENSING & REGISTRATION (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); LICENSES & PERMITS (63%); APPROVALS (63%); EXECUTIVES (54%) INAUGURATIONS; GOVERNORS (US); BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; AUTOMOBILES; AUTOMOBILE REGISTRATION AND LICENSE PLATES; RECALL (ELECTIONS); WORKERS' COMPENSATION INSURANCE; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS 

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (95%) SCHWARZENEGGER, ARNOLD (GOV); SHRIVER, MARIA; DAVIS, GRAY; BRODER, JOHN M; MURPHY, DEAN E 

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2003 



432 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: For a Day, at Least, Stars Shine on Sacramento 

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Nov. 17 

 BODY:
This sleepy capital town became the center of the televised world on Monday morning as Hollywood middleweights, political and financial power brokers, and more than 700 reporters from 14 countries converged on the Statehouse lawn to see Arnold Schwarzenegger sworn in as the 38th governor of California.
 There was an unmistakable esprit d'corps among the young in good suits who unashamedly smoked contraband Cuban cigars. 
 "It's O.K. because it's for personal consumption," said one young Republican, explaining that though he might have been in violation of the spirit of the anti-Castro trade embargo, he was not in violation of its letter.
Celebrity friends of Mr. Schwarzenegger, whom reporters just weeks ago disdained behind their backs as empty-headed actors and musclebound bubbleheads, were sought out for their thoughts on the state of the state and on Mr. Schwarzenegger himself, who at 11:22 a.m. became the chief executive of the most populous state in the Union. 
The actress Jamie Lee Curtis called the new governor an honorable and decent man, and offered this thought on how to manage a divided state sinking in a tsunami of red ink: "He needs to listen to his own heart and intuition and his wife. If he just kept to those three things, we'd be better off."
In taking the oath of office, Mr. Schwarzenegger, 56-year-old son of a constable in Thal, Austria, completed what he described three decades ago as his "master plan": to grow rich in the movies, marry a glamorous wife and wield political power.
His glamorous wife, Maria Shriver, a Kennedy family member and television journalist, read a poem by Maya Angelou before her husband was sworn in.
Ms. Shriver wore a long gray jacket, and underneath that a cream-colored skirt and shell from Valentino. Her choice may seem an insignificant detail but was the stuff of great speculation among the international members of the news media in the hours leading up to the ceremony. Mr. Schwarzenegger's aides had treated her sartorial selection like a state secret, reminding reporters that not days after her husband's election-day victory party last month, knockoffs of her Dolce & Gabbana sleeveless white dress with black trim began showing up in Chinatown dress shops and disreputable corners of the nation's metropolises.
"All human beings are more alike than unalike," Ms. Shriver read, and as she did so, one could not help but feel some sympathy for Gray Davis, the governor no more, who had the humiliating task of sitting on the dais and smiling through the most ignominious moment of his professional life.
Neil Kleven, a consultant from Lancaster, just north of Los Angeles, had one of the "regular people" seats -- that is, on the lawn, his view obscured by trees and the risers built to accommodate the media. Mr. Kleven, a Republican, wondered if Mr. Davis was eligible for unemployment insurance.
"I wish that was all he was eligible for," Mr. Kleven said. "But I have a feeling he is going to make a lot of money."
Outside the chain-link fence that kept out the uninvited, a small retinue of protesters shouted the now familiar "gropinator" wisecracks and promised they would not go away until an independent investigation was conducted into accusations that Mr. Schwarzenegger had manhandled women on his movie sets. Fulfilling a campaign promise, he recently hired a private detective to investigate the accusations.
At a cocktail reception at the Sheraton on Sunday night, the television personality Tom Arnold, who appeared slightly on edge as he mingled, vouched for his friend's character. "Arnold is a great guy who will do a great job," Mr. Arnold said. "I'm just glad to be here."
Even the director Rob Reiner, a Democratic activist, attended Sunday night's gathering, explaining that he had been invited not by Mr. Schwarzenegger but by a friend, the new secretary of health, Kim Belshe.
It was just last year, during the final weeks of the tepid governor's race between Mr. Davis and Bill Simon, that the prospect of a 2006 matchup between Mr. Reiner and Mr. Schwarzenegger was making headlines.
Mr. Reiner, who has lost a copious amount of weight over the last few months on a prepackaged, hand-delivered diet, was asked Sunday evening whether he had missed an opportunity to win the governor's office for himself.
"I don't believe in the recall," he said. He was asked if he would challenge Mr. Schwarzenegger in 2006. "I don't know," he said with a tight smile, slipping his arm around his wife and then slipping away into the reception.
At the swearing-in ceremony, Mr. Schwarzenegger wore a charcoal Prada suit, a light blue tie and a white shirt, and held his hands clenched before he was asked by the chief justice of the State Supreme Court to place his left hand on the family Bible, place his right hand in the air and accept his place in history.
Mr. Schwarzenegger gave a 12-minute speech, unusually long for him. He is not a loquacious politician and does not choose his movie roles for their literary value. By some counts, he spoke fewer than 800 words in "Terminator 2," getting paid nearly $20,000 a word.
Standing before 130 television cameras this morning, he acknowledged that he was a newcomer to politics and said he had been elected on faith and hope and people's disgust with the status quo. 
"This election," he said, "was the people's veto for politics as usual."
And Mr. Davis applauded.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rob Lowe was just one of the celebrities at the inauguration. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); SMOKING (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (55%) GOVERNORS (US); INAUGURATIONS; CELEBRITIES; MOTION PICTURES; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (90%) SCHWARZENEGGER, ARNOLD (GOV); LOWE, ROB; LEDUFF, CHARLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2003 



433 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Catholic Center of N.Y.U. May Move to Nearby Parish 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL J. WAKIN; Colin Moynihan contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
The Catholic Center at New York University may soon move off campus and merge with the nearby parish of St. Joseph-Greenwich Village. The center's director made the announcement during Masses this weekend.
 Moving the center, which has offered Masses and other services to N.Y.U. students for four decades, would be a small step next to the broad reorganization of parishes and priests that the Archdiocese of New York is starting to plan. But the move might be somewhat bittersweet for the university. 
 About eight years ago, N.Y.U. tried to buy the Catholic Center, on Washington Square South, from the archdiocese to make room for a new student center, but the deal fell through, and the student complex was built on an adjacent plot. If the archdiocese decides to move the center, an empty building with 10 floors of air rights on a prime campus location next to the student complex will potentially be available.
A spokesman for the archdiocese, Joseph Zwilling, said that no final decision had been made on a move and that it was far too early to say what might happen to the Catholic Center. The archdiocese is discussing what would be best for the center and the parish, he said.
The N.Y.U. chaplain, the Rev. John P. McGuire, said Cardinal Edward M. Egan seemed to voice second thoughts yesterday during a visit to the center.
Father McGuire said that if the merger took place, he would become the new pastor of St. Joseph's.
In an earlier interview, he sounded as if he were trying to make the best of the possible move. "Our whole bottom line financially is very, very precarious," he said. "At the same time, we're only three minutes' walk from this magnificent, beautiful church, with a small congregation of 400."
The center would add about 1,000 worshipers to St. Joseph's on weekends, as well as the vitality of youth, he said.
But it would lose its location in the middle of the university's student life -- next to the student complex and near the library, he said.
The chaplaincies at N.Y.U. and Columbia University have been troubling issues for Cardinal Egan.
As a bishop in charge of education in New York in the late 1980's, he tried to oust the archdiocesan priest who was chaplain at N.Y.U, the Rev. Raymond M. Rafferty, in favor of a more conservative priest. Cardinal John O'Connor intervened and allowed Father Rafferty to stay.
Paul Dinter, a former priest who was chaplain at Columbia during those years, said he was forced from his post, although it was unclear which bishop was behind the move. "I was too socially liberal," he said.
After Father Rafferty left, the archdiocese handed the N.Y.U. chaplaincy over to the Dominican order. At the archdiocese's invitation, a group of Dominican priests from Poland took charge at Columbia this year.
The potential move of the N.Y.U. center can be seen as sensible from the archdiocese's point of view. The pastor of St. Joseph's retired last month, and if Father McGuire took over, the archdiocese would not have to dip into its scarce supply of priests.
The archdiocese would also be unburdened of the considerable expense of running the Catholic Center, whose $100,000 yearly energy bill alone exceeds total collections and donations, Father McGuire said.
While many N.Y.U. students and staff members and nearby residents who attend Mass at the center's Holy Trinity Chapel said they would follow Father McGuire to St. Joseph's, others expressed worry that the university's Catholics -- as well as its Muslims, Orthodox Jews, Episcopalians and Russian Orthodox who use the center for worship -- would be less well served. Four clubs meet in the space as well.
"To lose that presence, even by shifting it three or four blocks over to St. Joseph's, is really very sad for the presence of the church at N.Y.U. and for the whole area," said Father Rafferty, who is now pastor at Corpus Christi Church in Morningside Heights. 
He lamented the possible loss of the building, one of the few examples of modern Catholic church architecture in Manhattan. Perfectly framed by the arch in Washington Square Park, the center's chapel was dedicated in 1964. It has abstract stained-glass windows and is shaped like an A-frame with a flat top.
"It's a fairly important part of religious art of that period," Father Rafferty said.
Father McGuire's announcement this weekend of the center's possible move stunned many in the pews.
"I'm very torn about it," Professor Evelyn Vitz, a member of the French department, said Sunday. "We've had a very impressive college ministry."
A spokesman for N.Y.U., John Beckman, said the university had received no formal word from the archdiocese. He said it would be a pity if the center were to close.
"Our students love having a parish with an N.Y.U.-centric focus, and it would be greatly missed," he said. But, he said, university officials sympathize with the archdiocese as it faces economic pressures.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The future of the Catholic Center at New York University is uncertain. Its director said it might merge with St. Joseph's in Greenwich Village. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LIBERALISM (73%) Colleges and Universities; Relocation of Business

ORGANIZATION: New York University; Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: Daniel J Wakin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2003 



434 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
Known for Helping Others, Woman Gets Help Herself

BYLINE:  By KATE JACOBS

 BODY:
It was Labor Day 2001, and Doris Ware planned on taking her grandson, Steven, to the West Indian Day Parade in Brooklyn, as she did every year. On their way to the parade, the two stopped at a neighborhood get-together, where Ms. Ware had a couple of drinks with friends. 
 But what was a casual cocktail for everyone else at the party was a much bigger deal for Ms. Ware, who had been dealing with a secret alcoholism that over several years had been getting more and more severe. 
 Ms. Ware's recollection of that day is sketchy. She remembers going to the parade with Steven, saying to him, 'Hold on to me, because Grandma's feeling a little tipsy,' and waking up in her bed the next morning.
It was an abrupt shock to Steven, 13, and Ms. Ware's two daughters, Ayesha, 30, and Chekasa, 27. But Ms. Ware knows that day was a long time coming.
Eleven years earlier, on a December night in 1990, Chekasa was caught in random gunfire while walking home from a night out in the neighborhood. She was shot in the back, became paralyzed from the waist down and spent the next year and a half in a rehabilitation center.
"When it first happened, I was crying all the time," Ms. Ware, 52, said recently, sitting at the living room table of the apartment that she, Chekasa, Ayesha and Steven share. "Everything was crumbling."
In addition to helping Chekasa manage the anger and sadness she felt about her disability, Ms. Ware, a single mother, had practical concerns to deal with. With Chekasa no longer able to climb the three flights of stairs to the Wares' top-floor apartment, the family had to look for a new one. Then there were the logistics of running between work, home and the hospital.
Even so, Ms. Ware, who often speaks of keeping "a happy face," held herself and her family together. She signed a lease for a loft apartment in an elevator building. She also began seeing a psychiatrist.
But in July 1994, it became measurably harder to keep the happy face from slipping. She was laid off from the Federal Reserve Bank, where she had held several positions over 25 years. Ms. Ware's fatigue and anxiety finally surfaced, and she started drinking heavily. 
"The girls would see me go to the kitchen, get a glass of ice and go back into my room," she said. "And this was every night."
Finding a new job at the New York City Board of Education helped, but it didn't eradicate the problem. The $1,000-a-month rent on the family's loft was difficult to pay with Ms. Ware secretly spending much of her own and her daughters' money on vodka. The rent piled up, and they had to find to a cheaper place to live. 
Then, Ms. Ware's mother died.
Then, she had a breast cancer scare (it turned out to be only cysts).
To cope with each new challenge, each new loss, she drank more, until that blackout on Labor Day 2001. After that, Ms. Ware's daughters demanded that she go to the hospital.
"Ayesha was crying, saying, 'I never thought I would take my mother to a place like this,' " Ms. Ware said of that trip. "And I said to myself, 'Doris, it's time for you to get help.' "
One year of group sessions and psychologist appointments later, Ms. Ware was sober. She began to truly enjoy her job, where she helped to place physical, speech and occupational therapists into city schools, and developed a reputation for helping others find employment at the Board of Education (her daughter Ayesha, for one).
But she still owed $8,710.53 in rent, and when Department of Education jobs started to be cut, Ms. Ware had a hunch that she would not have hers much longer. Last December, two weeks before Christmas and the day before her 52nd birthday, the woman known for finding other people jobs was laid off.
Ms. Ware now laughs as she remembers that day. "I thought, what am I going to do now?" she said. "I'm 51 years old!"
What she did was employ an adage her mother had always repeated to her -- when one door closes, another opens -- and get a voucher to enroll in a medical transcribing program. She also used her unemployment benefits and Chekasa's disability subsidy to try to pay off her back rent. Falling short, she turned to the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, one of the seven charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
In April, Ms. Ware was granted $1,000, paid for by the Neediest Cases Fund, for the balance of the outstanding rent.
Ms. Ware has been interviewing for jobs, but has not yet landed one. She recently started an internship at New York University Downtown Hospital and has been volunteering with the American Cancer Society's Making Strides Against Breast Cancer campaign, but neither of those activities help her make her rent payments, which are close to falling behind again.
Anyone else might have a hard time keeping a happy face under such circumstances, but Ms. Ware's vibrant outlook is apparent even through her worry and stress.
"I have great friends and a family I love," she said, "so I know everything's going to be fine."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $2,415,245.03
Recorded Friday: 36,348.87

Total: $2,451,593.90
Last year to date: $2,715,164.37

GRAPHIC: Photo: Doris Ware in her Brooklyn apartment. The strain of layoffs and caring for a disabled daughter led to alcoholism. She overcame that, is now a volunteer worker and is looking hard for a job. (Photo by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARADES & MARCHES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (89%); US LABOR DAY (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (72%); PARALYSIS (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (61%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

PERSON: Kate Jacobs; Doris Ware

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2003 



435 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: NYC; 
All the Views Unfit to Print On a Billboard

BYLINE:  By CLYDE HABERMAN

 BODY:
THE REV. KRISTOPHER OKWEDY and the New York Civil Liberties Union have so little in common that they would probably have a hard time agreeing on a lunch order.
 But they share at least one idea. Both believe in their right to use billboards to say what they feel needs saying. The problem is that, in delivering their messages, both have run afoul of the authorities, raising serious questions about how far the government may go to monitor speech, including speech that many find objectionable. 
 First up is Mr. Okwedy, born in Nigeria and pastor of Keyword Ministries, a Christian church on Staten Island devoted to what it calls traditional biblical values. Among those values is a belief that homosexuality is sinful.
To bring that point home, Mr. Okwedy bought space on two Staten Island billboards in 2000, filling them with different translations of the same biblical verse, Leviticus 18:22. The King James version says, "Thou shalt not lie with mankind, as with womankind: it is abomination."
There was no call to harm gays, just the quotation from the Bible -- a passage that is, as the minister acknowledges, offensive to many in this city. "Even if people don't like what I said," Mr. Okwedy said the other day, "I have the right to say it."
Among the unconvinced is Guy V. Molinari, who in 2000 was the Staten Island borough president. Days after the Leviticus signs went up, Mr. Molinari faxed a letter to the billboard company, PNE Media of Union, N.J. "This message," he said, "conveys an atmosphere of intolerance which is not welcome in our borough."
He added, "PNE Media owns a number of billboards on Staten Island and derives substantial economic benefits from them."
Lo and behold, PNE announced within hours that the billboards were gone. Interesting how these things work.
Mr. Okwedy went to court, saying his First Amendment rights had been violated. But a federal judge in Brooklyn, Nina Gershon, tossed out his lawsuit, reasoning that the First Amendment is concerned with actions by government, not private business. Mr. Molinari, the judge said, "did not have regulatory authority" over the billboard company.
Not so fast, a federal appeals court now says. Mr. Molinari's reference to PNE's business interests, it recently ruled, "could be found to contain an implicit threat of retaliation" should his wishes be ignored. The appellate judges gave Mr. Okwedy's lawsuit new life.
This case has far to go. But this fundamental question has already been framed: Is New York, for all its vaunted liberalism, often intolerant of views that do not conform to generally accepted wisdom?
Michael DePrimo, Mr. Okwedy's lawyer, believes so. He is with the American Family Association, a nonprofit organization in Tupelo, Miss., that says it "stands for traditional family values."
"The city is tolerant only of views that it feels it should be tolerant of," Mr. DePrimo said by phone.
CHARGES of government interference with free speech also define a lawsuit brought by the New York Civil Liberties Union against the Temporary State Commission on Lobbying.
The civil liberties group posted a billboard message outside an Albany mall where a man had been arrested in March for protesting the impending invasion of Iraq. His offense was to wear a T-shirt that said "Give Peace a Chance." The billboard showed a man with his mouth gagged. "Welcome to the mall," it said. "You have the right to remain silent. Value free speech."
To the state commission, this amounted to a lobbying effort in behalf of a bill in the Legislature to expand free-speech rights in shopping malls. As a lobbyist regulator, it demanded an accounting of the billboard's costs. But to the civil liberties union's way of thinking, the state was trying to regulate First Amendment activities. So the group filed a lawsuit.
Earlier this month, the commission backed off, citing a technical reason to drop its claim to jurisdiction. Nonetheless, the civil libertarians say broad constitutional concerns are on the line, and they are forging ahead with their case.
"There is a chilling effect on free speech at issue here," said Donna Lieberman, the executive director of the group.
Funny, but that is essentially Mr. Okwedy's point.
"I believe the greatest thing about this nation is that people have freedom to express themselves," he said. "I don't think this nation has the right to fight for freedom in Iraq if people here don't have the right to express themselves." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (91%); RELIGION (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); LITIGATION (88%); SUITS & CLAIMS (86%); JUDGES (85%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); APPEALS COURTS (67%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (67%); APPEALS (64%) Freedom of Speech and Expression; Suits and Litigation

PERSON: Clyde Haberman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NIGERIA (79%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2003 



436 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: I Came, I Bought And I Helped 

BYLINE:  By GUY TREBAY

 BODY:
No one blinks anymore when the fashion world tantalizes the public with its design flirtation du jour. People are so inured to 15-second novelties that, by the time one registers broadly, it has typically become a remote blip on the cognoscenti's radar screens. Velour hoodies? Yawn. Ugg boots? Weren't those the weird things Kate Hudson wore with her bikini when she went arugula shopping in Malibu?
 Fads are disposable by definition. So it is surprising that the latest one to affect the industry gives signs of having legs, and not particularly sexy ones at that. Social responsibility may be the sort of phrase one associates less with insider hot spots like the Soho House than with the student quad, but lately it is spoken of in some unexpected quarters. 
 Fashion is built on frivolity. Yet it is nearly impossible these days to flip through a fashion magazine without encountering a plea from some leading light of fashion or beauty favoring social issues. They are as disparate as cancer research, childhood nutrition, animal welfare, environmental protection or medical care for underserved communities. 
Consider some events from the last few months, when Vogue announced a benefit auction for God's Love We Deliver, the nonprofit organization that delivers hot meals to homebound people with AIDS; the Ralph Lauren companies announced the inauguration of G.I.V.E., an initiative to promote youth volunteerism through jean sales; Saks Fifth Avenue joined forces with VH1 on Save the Music, enlisting designers and celebrities like Beyonce Knowles to sell merchandise whose profits help school music programs; and Giorgio Armani created a special edition Armani Barbie,with part of its profits destined to combat youth AIDS.
If corporate social responsibility is not yet a bona fide movement in the United States as it is in Europe, where an initiative begun in 1995 by the former European Commission president Jacques Delors now encompasses scores of name brand companies, it is "where the smart money is going," said Scott Nova, the executive director of the Worker Rights Consortium. 
The existence of the consortium can itself be taken as a signal of generational shifts in taste. Founded in 2000 to centralize a grass roots student movement, it has persuaded 116 colleges to institute codes of conduct among their suppliers that ensure the use of fair labor to produce the goods for the $3 billion a year college logo-wear industry. "The consumer market is very different today even from a few years ago," said Marshall Cohen, a fashion industry analyst for the NPD Group, a market research company. Consumers, Mr. Cohen said, especially young ones, now seek brands that can demonstrate environmental and labor friendliness. 
Although bottom-line figures supporting that assertion are hard to come by, believers in socially conscious business practices are devout. "Being a good citizen translates into good business," said John Demsey, president of MAC cosmetics, which industry analysts say is the fastest-growing cosmetics brand in North America. Since 1994, MAC has raised $31 million for AIDS research and charities like Bailey House solely through the sales of a $14 lipstick. "Social messaging has obviously had a rub-off effect on commercial business," Mr. Demsey said. "Branding and the charity are synonymous with each other and I'm not ashamed of that."
Anecdotal evidence is also strong that appearing socially aware to consumers is de rigueur. "There's a definite hip factor involved" for stores as well as for manufacturers, said Jacqui Lividini, the fashion director of Saks Fifth Avenue. Saks has sponsored a "Gifts That Give Back" promotion for its Save the Music campaign. Supported by newspaper advertising and a ground-floor boutique in its Manhattan store, the merchandise -- French thong sets and designer makeup bags -- is secondary to a message that Saks promotes music programs in schools. "If customers perceive you as socially committed, that is going to affect their loyalty," Ms. Lividini said. 
Saks is one of the most high profile participants in what analysts refer to as "cause-based" marketing. But it is far from alone. "Young people are more likely to buy something from a company that is socially conscious," said David Lauren, a marketing and communications executive for Polo Ralph Lauren, and the founder's son. Ten percent of the profits from a $60 Polo slim-fit low-rise pair of jeans with a leather G.I.V.E. patch go to promote volunteerism. Polo Ralph Lauren also underwrites the Pink Pony campaign, which channels part of the sales of T-shirts, sweat shirts and ponchos bearing a pink polo rider to philanthropy. 
A decade ago, few fashion and beauty companies made much effort to align themselves with social activism. There was MAC (now a division of Estee Lauder), which raised money for AIDS research using celebrities like Mary J. Blige to pitch Viva Glam. There was Anita Roddick, who built the Body Shop chain on a platform of rain forest rescue and sustainable resources. And there was Kenneth Cole, who staked the image of an unexceptional midrange shoe company on advertisements that touted AIDS awareness. 
But in the current and increasingly crowded market, where consumers are at pains to differentiate between one generically tasteful jacket and another, numerous fashion makers seek to distinguish themselves by good citizenship. "A lot of early studies claimed that corporate social responsibility didn't enhance financial performance," said Donald Siegel, a professor of economics at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y., and an author of studies on the profitability of corporate responsibility. "Especially for image-based products like celebrity fashion lines, it turns out that the bottom line is affected, because consumers really seem to care about these things." 
One measure of this assertion might be the alacrity with which the Sean John company responded to a recent report by a labor group charging that its $40 sweat shirts were produced by factory workers making pennies a day in Honduras. "We will not tolerate any violation of labor laws at facilities in which our merchandise is manufactured," said Jeff Tweedy, the executive vice president of Sean John, noting that the labor minister of Honduras had later toured the factory and issued a statement claiming that the complaints were unfounded. "We conduct extensive compliance checks with all facilities supplying our company to ensure they are clean and safe," Mr. Tweedy said. 
Poor labor conditions are always a volatile issue with consumers, as anyone knows who remembers the scorn heaped on Kathie Lee Gifford in 1996, when it was found that designs for her Wal-Mart clothing line were sewn by sweatshop workers.
"We are at a major crossroads with the consumer after Enron, Martha Stewart and all the other corporate scandals," Mr. Cohen of the NPD Group said. "The consumer has so much choice today, they want to feel like there's an added benefit" to what to buy. 
Does this mean Vogue readers will start clamoring for features on child labor? Of course they won't. Fashion will probably always have a home for those more concerned with a bell sleeve than unpaid overtime. The one-time darling of Seventh Avenue, Isaac Mizrahi, was hired last year by Target to bring style to shoppers in 47 states. Critics were nearly unanimous in their celebration of Mr. Mizrahi's belted suede jacket and all-American turtlenecks, praising particularly his ability to accomplish so much at an affordable price. 
Few stopped to inquire how it was possible to attain Mizrahi chic for as little as $9.99. Mr. Mizrahi's clothes are manufactured at factories around the world, said Lena Klofstad, a Target spokeswoman, who declined to name specific countries. "We have standards for all our vendors and a compliance area that takes care to enforce them," she explained, "so Isaac is freed up to focus on what he enjoys, the design."
When asked if he knew where his bargain styles were being manufactured, under what circumstances and by whom, Mr. Mizrahi pleaded ignorance. "I don't know," he said. "And I don't want to know."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mary J. Blige, center, presenting a donation to Gina Quattrochi, left, and Kara Perrin of Bailey House. (Photo by Kevin Mazur/Wireimage.com); A portion of the proceeds from the Armani Barbie goes to children with AIDS and to other causes. (Photo by Mattel); Shoppers support charities with purchases at stores like Saks, above, and Ralph Lauren, right. (Photo by Mike Appleton for The New York Times); (Photo by Chris Maynard for The New York Times); Sean Combs raised money with his marathon run. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (87%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (75%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (75%); FUNDRAISING (75%); ETHICS (75%); CHARITIES (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (74%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (74%); MEALS ON WHEELS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); COSMETICS (70%); PHILANTHROPY (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); BRANDING (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); AIDS & HIV (68%); ONCOLOGY (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); ANIMAL WELFARE (67%); CANCER (67%); NUTRITION (67%); AUCTIONS (66%); MUSIC (64%) Apparel; Philanthropy; Celebrities

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%)

PERSON: GIORGIO ARMANI (79%); RALPH LAUREN (58%); BEYONCE KNOWLES (50%); SEAN (DIDDY) COMBS (50%) Guy Trebay

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2003 



437 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Report Finds Few Benefits for Mexico in Nafta 

BYLINE:  By CELIA W. DUGGER 

 BODY:
As the North American Free Trade Agreement nears its 10th anniversary, a study from the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace concludes that the pact failed to generate substantial job growth in Mexico, hurt hundreds of thousands of subsistence farmers there and had "minuscule" net effects on jobs in the United States.
 The Carnegie Endowment, an independent, Washington-based research institute, issued its report on Tuesday to coincide with new trade negotiations aimed at the adoption of a Nafta-like pact for the entire Western Hemisphere. Trade ministers from 34 countries in the Americas are gathering now in Miami. 
 The report seeks to debunk both the fears of American labor that Nafta would lure large numbers of jobs to low-wage Mexico, as well as the hopes of the trade deal's proponents that it would lead to rising wages, as well as declines in income inequality and illegal immigration. 
Though sorting out the exact causes is complicated, trends are clear. Real wages in Mexico are lower now than they were when the agreement was adopted despite higher productivity, income inequality is greater there and immigration has continued to soar. 
"On balance, Nafta's been rough for rural Mexicans," said John J. Audley, who edited the report. "For the country, it's probably a wash. It takes more than just trade liberalization to improve the quality of life for poor people around the world."
The Carnegie findings strike a much more pessimistic note than those of a World Bank team that concluded in a draft report this year that the trade accord "has brought significant economic and social benefits to the Mexican economy."
The bank's economists argue that Mexico would have been worse off without the agreement as the country struggled to recover from a deep financial crisis in the mid-1990's and that the income gap between Mexico and the United States is smaller than it would have been otherwise.
Luis Serven, research manager for Latin America at the bank, said in an interview that he disagreed with the Carnegie report's contention that the trade agreement had hurt small subsistence farmers. He also said that the higher productivity Mexico had achieved in the Nafta years was ultimately the only route to higher wages there.
The intensity of the debate about the agreement's consequences is likely to grow with the approach of the pact's 10th anniversary in January as pro- and antiglobalization forces marshal arguments to influence negotiations for a Free Trade Area of the Americas and for a new bilateral trade deal between the United States and Central America.
Carnegie's policy experts stop short of contending that Mexico would have been better off without the agreement. "Mexico would have been better off with a better Nafta," said Sandra Polaski, a senior associate at Carnegie who was director of economic research at the Nafta labor secretariat from 1996 to 1999.
The authors of the report say developing countries have much to learn from Mexico's mistakes in the Nafta deal. 
Trade negotiators for Central and South American countries, they said, should bargain for more gradual tariff reductions on corn, rice and beans -- the staples of subsistence farming -- to give peasants time to adjust to tough competition from large, highly efficient and heavily subsidized American farmers.
Carnegie's researchers also say developing countries should push international donors and rich countries to finance transitional assistance for the retraining of workers and farmers displaced by global competition.
Developing countries should also seek greater leeway to promote the use of domestic suppliers in manufacturing over imported components -- a step that would increase job creation, the authors say. 
The Carnegie report argues that the growth in manufacturing resulting from the trade agreement was largely offset by lost employment among rural subsistence farmers, who were adversely affected by falling prices for their crops, especially corn -- a problem intensified by the Mexican government's decision to lower tariff barriers to American-grown corn even more rapidly than the agreement required.
"This is a trade pact which opened the U.S. economy to Mexico very profoundly, including years when the United States experienced its best growth in decades," Ms. Polaski said. "Yet we can't see a clear net increase in jobs in Mexico. You'd expect strong growth. You wouldn't have expected to need a magnifying glass to find it."
The trade agreement also reinforced and magnified changes in Mexico's rural economy -- brought on by a broad array of other policies -- that are damaging the environment, according to Scott Vaughan, an economist who recently left Carnegie to head the environmental unit at the Organization of American States. For example, he contends that the agreement has accelerated the shift to large-scale, export-oriented farms that rely more heavily on water-polluting agro-chemicals and use more irrigated water compared with producers of similar crops for the Mexican market.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "AT ISSUE: Free Trade, Less Work"A Carnegie Endowment for International Peace report finds Nafta did not bring job growth to Mexico. Avg. annual employment change by sector in Mexico AgricultureBEFORE NAFTA (1984-1993): +2%AFTER NAFTA (1993-2002): -2% ManufacturingBEFORE NAFTA (1984-1993): +6AFTER NAFTA (1993-2002): +4 Services*BEFORE NAFTA (1984-1993): +6AFTER NAFTA (1993-2002): +4 *Includes financial and social services, transportation, utilities, trade, communications

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); TRENDS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); REFUGEES (69%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (68%); INTERVIEWS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; FREE PORTS AND TRADING ZONES; ORGANIZED LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; INCOME; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%) CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: ;DUGGER, CELIA W 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (78%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



438 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 824 words

PERSON: Fritz Kraemer 

HEADLINE: Fritz Kraemer, 95, Tutor to U.S. Generals and Kissinger, Dies 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL T. KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
Fritz Kraemer, a refugee from Nazi Germany who tutored generations of America's leading generals in historical and geopolitical thinking, died in Washington on Sept. 8. He was 95.
 From 1951 until his retirement in 1978, he worked in the Pentagon as a senior civilian counselor to defense secretaries and top military commanders. His son, Sven, a Pentagon official, said that Mr. Kraemer's title often changed but that he occupied the same map-covered office from which he would be called on to prepare briefings, often on short notice, on such diverse subjects as political developments in Southeast Asia, economic prospects in China and French views on nuclear weapons. 
 But his influence on national policy was felt most visibly, perhaps, in a friendship he struck in 1944 when he was a private at a Louisiana Army camp during World War II. There, he met Henry A. Kissinger, also a private and another refugee from Germany, whom he helped guide toward a career that reached the highest echelons of government.
In cold-war years, long before Mr. Kissinger moved from Harvard to the office of secretary of state, Mr. Kraemer pursued his antitotalitarian views, participating in formal and informal seminars at staff colleges and within the Pentagon, where Donald H. Rumsfeld referred to him as "a true keeper of the flame." 
He also developed close and mentoring relationships with many officers who either occupied or would rise to powerful positions, among them, Gen. Creighton Abrams; Gen. Alexander M. Haig Jr.; Gen. Vernon A. Walters, who later served as ambassador to the United Nations; and Maj. Gen. Edward G. Lansdale, the theoretician of counterinsurgency.
Born in Essen in 1908, Fritz Kraemer was the son a prosecutor and an heiress. A man of conservative instincts, with a veneration for history and culture and a devotion to his Lutheran faith, he acquired doctorates in economics and law. During the turbulent early 1930's he often joined in street battles against both black-shirted Nazis and Communist toughs, holding high the flag of the old Hohenzollern monarchy. 
In 1933, he left Germany to work as a legal adviser for the League of Nations in Rome, and he wrote eight books on international law. Having observed fascism in both Italy and Germany, he fled to the United States in 1939 on the eve of war.
Once in the American Army, he cut an eccentric figure, habitually wearing a monocle and carrying a riding crop while speaking loudly in a strong German accent.
At Camp Claiborne in Louisiana, his demeanor attracted the attention of Maj. Gen. Alexander R. Bolling, the commanding officer of the 84th Division, who assigned him to his headquarters.
Walter Isaacson, a Kissinger biographer, said that Privates Kissinger and Kraemer first met at the camp, when Private Kraemer, speaking from his jeep, delivered a lecture on the philosophy of the Nazi state and the necessity of its defeat to men who had just finished a 10-mile march. The 20-year-old Private Kissinger was stirred and wrote Private Kraemer, saying: 'I heard you speak yesterday. This is how it should be done. Can I help you in any way?' "
Mr. Kraemer looked up the younger soldier and, impressed by his intelligence, gradually inspired and abetted him. As Mr. Isaacson wrote: "Kraemer's patronage was to prove momentous. During the next three years, he would pluck Kissinger out of the infantry, secure him an assignment as a translator for General Bolling, get him chosen to administer the occupation of captured towns, ease his way into the Counter-Intelligence Corps, have him hired as a teacher at a military intelligence school in Germany and then convince him to go to Harvard. Kraemer is often described as 'the man who discovered Kissinger.' He thunders: 'My role was not discovering Kissinger! My role was getting Kissinger to discover himself.' "
Mr. Kraemer was captured in the Battle of the Bulge. Soon after he was taken, he convinced his German captors that an Allied victory was imminent and persuaded them to surrender themselves and the town to him. For this he received a Bronze Star and a battlefield commission. 
Mr. Kissinger has written that "Fritz Kraemer was the greatest single influence in my formative years." He cited the conversations the pair had had as they walked battle-scarred streets. The older man, he wrote, "spoke of history and postwar challenges in his stentorian voice, and awakened my interest in political philosophy."
The relationship that Mr. Kraemer and Mr. Kissinger forged at Camp Claiborne endured for years before it deteriorated in 1975 when Mr. Kraemer expressed disapproval of the policies of detente with the Soviet Union that were being pursued by Mr. Kissinger and the Ford administration. The two did not speak for 28 years until last year, when Mr. Kissinger telephoned his old mentor.
In addition to his son, Mr. Kraemer is survived by his daughter, Madeleine Bryant of Cockeysville, Md.; and three grandsons.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fritz Kraemer struck up a friendship with Henry Kissinger when the two, fellow German refugees, were privates in the United States Army. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); WORLD WAR II (90%); REFUGEES (90%); ARMIES (89%); HISTORY (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); COLD WAR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); WRITERS (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (56%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (59%)

KRAEMER, FRITZ; KAUFMAN, MICHAEL T 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (90%); CHINA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); ITALY (77%)

CATEGORY: Military 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



439 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: The Medicare Choice 

 BODY:
Despite its shortcomings, the Medicare prescription drug bill heading for a vote in Congress is worthy of passage. Fears that the legislation contains seeds that will ultimately destroy the traditional Medicare program strike us as overblown. Our own chief qualm is that the country, with deficits looming as far as prognosticators can see, cannot afford a program that will cost, at a minimum, $400 billion over 10 years. 
 Millions of middle-income Americans will get only modest help from the program, and they will have to cope with a crazy-quilt pattern of benefits. But fortunately, the bill is strongest when it comes to the most important target groups: elderly people with low incomes or very high drug bills. 
 The provisions that alarm some liberals mostly involve issues beyond the drug benefit. They particularly worry about demonstration projects in upto six metropolitan areas that would stage a competition between Medicare and private plans. The competitions would not go into effect until 2010, assuming that political opposition did not block them. There is clearly a danger that the deck would be stacked in favor of the private plans. But our guess is that the elderly, a potent political force, will be able to head off the worst nightmares imagined by proponents of traditional Medicare.
A far more likely problem is that this new drug benefit will exacerbate long-term deficits, which already threaten to drive up interest rates and undermine future prosperity. Many legislators who vote for the plan will argue that it is important to get some drug coverage on the books now, when the opportunity presents itself, and worry about the financial consequences later. That is exactly the thinking that caused Congressional Republicans to push wildly unaffordable tax cuts through, even at the point when they realized that the nation was facing huge new expenses for the gulf war.
If the prescription drug bill is passed, Congress will have created not one but two fiscal train wrecks several years down the line. Some legislators will vote for the drug plan and figure that when the bills ratchet up after 2006, future Congresses will have to give up on some of the current tax cuts when they expire. Others will vote for the drug bill with the idea of taking the political gain now and hoping that the monster deficits over the horizon will force cutbacks on entitlements later in the decade.
Our own choice would be to rescind the Bush administration's reckless tax cuts for the wealthy to pay for drug coverage of benefit to all. But any lawmakers who voted for the tax cuts cannot in good conscience support the drug bill unless they are ready to stand up and explain what should happen when the train wrecks occur.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (95%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); QUILTS & QUILTING (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (70%); LIBERALISM (69%); AGING (69%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; TAXATION; EDITORIALS; MEDICARE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); HEALTH INSURANCE AND MANAGED CARE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; AGED; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



440 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: Banking for the World's Poor 

 BODY:
Microcredit -- tiny business loans extended to poor people in developing countries -- is a proven development strategy, expected to benefit 100 million of the world's poorest families by 2005. But the world's poor desperately need access to a broader range of financial services -- microfinance is the more apt term -- to improve their living standards. 
 The staggering flows of money sent home by migrant workers are a case in point. The Inter-American Development Bank estimates that remittances from Mexicans working in the United States this year will total $14.5 billion, more than Mexico earns from tourism or foreign investment. 
 Too often, however, those who get the money are victimized by rapacious fees and exchange rates. Governments can help by reducing transaction fees, but what the recipients need most is a place to put their money. In many countries, the poor, especially in rural areas, lack access to commercial banks. Mainstream banks need to make an effort to extend their reach. Until they do, established microlending organizations can help fill the void in ways that encourage private saving and, equally important, enlarge development capital in poor communities.
Stanley Fischer, the noted economist and former deputy director of the International Monetary Fund who is now a vice chairman at Citigroup, reminded those attending a microfinance conference earlier this month that during the 1990's East Asian financial crisis, a large Indonesian bank suffered nearly 100 percent default rates in its corporate portfolio, but only 2 percent in itsmicrofinance portfolio. Mr. Fischer, once a microcredit skeptic, is on the board of Women's World Banking, which sponsored the conference to drum up Wall Street interest in microfinance.
Large global banks are starting to think of microfinance as a viable business, not just a trendy charity. Deutsche Bank, for instance, is about to open a $50 million fund to provide capital for microfinance organizations. A real microfinance revolution could further empower the world's poor. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROFINANCE (92%); POOR POPULATION (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (69%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); MIGRANT WORKERS (56%) BANKS AND BANKING; EDITORIALS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (84%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



441 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Safety First 

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF; E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It's easy to criticize the Bush administration for its foolishness in invading Iraq, at a cost so far of 400 American lives and (one study suggests) at least 11,000 Iraqi lives. But it's much harder to figure out what to do next.
 And while the administration's new approach is risky, weakens our control and may result in less democracy than the U.S. had hoped, it is probably the best of a bunch of bad options. 
 Democrats are having a field day pointing out the problems, but their suggestions for what to do next are pretty unhelpful. Most Democrats want to hand over more power to the United Nations and bring in NATO troops, and while those steps would help, they certainly don't amount to a solution to the mess. 
The reality is that the U.N. and NATO have even less stomach for suicide bombs than Americans do. The U.N., after all, has been frantically cutting staff in Baghdad. And if we can't get NATO countries to secure Afghanistan, why would it be easier in Iraq -- particularly now that guerrillas have displayed their multiculturalism by blowing up 19 Italians?
"How do we get out of this hell to see the stars again?" an editorial in the Italian newspaper Repubblica said on Sunday, alluding to the last lines of Dante's "Inferno." It added that the Bush administration was "going through a period of insanity that is worsening every day."
And Ken Livingstone, the mayor of London, welcomed Mr. Bush to London with this reflection: "I actually think that Bush is the greatest threat to life on this planet that we've most probably ever seen."
Ah, yes, the cheery warmth of our staunch pro-American friends, the Italians and the British.
I've asked two Democratic presidential candidates, Richard Gephardt and another who spoke off the record, if it's really credible to offer the U.N. and NATO as a solution to Iraq. They harrumph a bit in a way that I interpret to mean: "Maybe not, but it works in front of television cameras."
Meanwhile, the administration is overselling the benefits of the Iraqification of security. Sure, it will help to have more Iraqi policemen and troops: Iraqi guerrillas who lay down roadside mines have been known to scrawl a warning on the street in Arabic. Thus American troops hurtle blindly into danger.
The problem is that while the administration boasts that 130,000 Iraqis have been incorporated into the security forces, most have trained for a few weeks or less (in some cases, for just one day). Relying too quickly on these Iraqis for security as we draw down our own troops will simply be a replay of Afghanistan: a slide into chaos.
Security is paramount. Iraq's economy can't revive until there's security. And the half of the population that is female is arguably worse off now than under Saddam, until security improves. As one U.N. official told me, Iraqi women were once raped by Qusay and Uday, Saddam's sons; now they are raped by everybody else. Fewer women are in the labor force than under Saddam because now they don't dare leave their homes.
A new report by the U.N. Population Fund offers a devastating portrait of the plight of Iraqi women since the war. Contraceptive use has fallen because of supply breakdowns, unsafe abortions are increasing, sexual abductions are on the rise, and a combination of poor security and hospital looting has left many women without access to medical care.
"Treatment of problems, such as sexually transmitted infections, breast and cervical cancer, is now impossible," the report declares.
Let me suggest three steps that are worth taking. First, bring back regular Iraqi Army units to bolster security. Second, be more attentive to nationalism -- that means we should avoid privatization (even though it's a good idea) because Iraqis will suspect us of stealing their assets. Third, resist the temptation to anoint Ahmad Chalabi, who is resented by ordinary Iraqis as our puppet.
The bottom line, though, is that neither Republicans nor Democrats are being straight with the public: now that Mr. Bush has gotten us into this mess, there's no simple way out. 
We need a name for this war. "Operation Iraqi Freedom" never rolled off the tongue, and "Iraq war" creates confusion with the 1991 war. So send in your entries by mail or e-mail. I'll report the top five suggestions and give those writers Iraqi 250-dinar notes with Saddam's portrait. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (68%); TERRORISM (68%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (68%); POLITICS (62%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WOMEN; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%) UNITED NATIONS; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); CHALABI, AHMAD 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003



442 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1640 words

HEADLINE: Quietly, North Korea Opens Markets 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Nov. 14 

 BODY:
North Korea's tentative turn at opening markets is best captured in snapshots of happy South Koreans touring Pyongyang, a long forbidden city lampooned as "a Stalinist theme park."
 This fall, a South Korean travel agency started flying the first regular tour groups to the North's showcase capital. Charging $2,000 a head, the tours put a human face to South Korea's quietly swelling trade and investment with its isolated northern sibling. In the first 10 months of this year, South Korea's trade with North Korea jumped 40 percent. Pushing private enterprise in the Communist North, South Korean companies are now building cars, roads, railroads and a huge industrial park. 
 The United States, in contrast, is tightening the economic screws on North Korea, believing that economic pain will force the North to give up its program to build nuclear bombs. Through satellite surveillance and maritime interdiction, the United States is trying to curb North Korea's exports of missiles and drugs. In Australia, a North Korean captain and crew are on trial on charges stemming from the seizure of a North Korean freighter and $150 million of heroin. 
 All this external pressure is causing North Korea to miss out on a series of billion-dollar infrastructure projects.
 On Friday, a multinational consortium announced in Moscow that it would route a $17 billion, 3,035-mile natural gas pipeline around North Korea. By laying the pipeline on the floor of the Yellow Sea, the BP-led group avoids the political and financial risks of a country the White House calls a "rogue state." South Korea, one destination for the Siberian gas, wanted the pipeline to go through North Korea, feeding thermal power plants along the way.
 On Nov. 21, another multinational consortium, the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization, is to formally announce the suspension of a $4.6 billion project to build two nuclear power plants in North Korea. South Korea was the largest investor, spending about $931 million so far for the power project, which was to be a trade-off if North Korea abandoned its nuclear bomb program.
 Western pressure is also slowing North Korea's only oil exploration project. Sovereign Ventures, a Singapore company, intended to drill 15 wells this year, but has so far failed to drill one. Canada placed a travel advisory on North Korea, prompting Sovereign's Canadian operating partner to withdraw. Desperate for oil, North Korea last month awarded a major offshore seismic survey contract to Global Geo Services, a Norwegian company.
 With world financial markets allergic to North Korea projects, there is little progress on Russia's $2 billion plan to rebuild North Korea's railroads to connect South Korea with the trans-Siberian railroad.
 Now, many Americans say they believe that Asia's last bastion of Communism faces collapse.
 "In our view, it's only a question of time when North Korea collapses because its current economic model is not sustainable," John Chambers, managing director for sovereign ratings at Standard & Poor's, told reporters here recently. An S.&P. statement added: "Although some other Asian nations that used to have centrally planned economies have successfully moved to a market-based system, the North Korean leadership probably lacks the flexibility and the vision to undertake such a change."
 Citing North Korea's nuclear bomb program and its economic backwardness as justification for not raising South Korea's bond rating, Mr. Chambers said that rebuilding the North could cost the South up to $1.4 trillion, roughly twice the cost of unifying the two Germanies.
 Rebuilding North Korea is expected to fall largely to South Korea because it has the deepest pockets and the greatest interest in a united Korea. China and Russia, the cold war patrons of the North's Communist government, have less interest in paying for extensive redevelopment. Japan has promised to pay billions of dollars in compensation for its colonization of northern Korea during the first half of the 20th century.
 But instead of pushing for a collapse, South Korea is quietly pursuing the kind of market-oriented development that could one day ease a transition in the North from Communism to capitalism.
 During the first half of this year, 427 South Korean companies took part in 557 projects producing $340 million in bilateral trade, according to South Korea's Unification Ministry, a government agency. That figure climbs to $587 million with the addition of South Korean humanitarian aid projects, including two sets of cross-border railways and roads, an industrial park and a mammoth meeting center for divided families.
 South Korea, which spends billions of dollars to defend itself from the threat of North Korea's military, is now North Korea's largest foreign investor, and, after China, the North's second-largest trading partner. South Korean companies now makes shoes, beds, television sets and men's suits in North Korea.
 The southern company Pyeonghwa started the recent group tours of Pyongyang, offering the average South Korean citizen the first opportunity to visit Pyongyang since the Korean War split the country half a century ago. Hyundai Asan, a branch of the Hyundai conglomerate, has offered ferry and bus trips to Mount Kumgang in the North, near the border of the two Koreas. 
 "There is a perception among Westerners of North Korea being locked up, but that adds to the intrigue, makes people want to visit the place," said Neil Plimmer, a New Zealand tourism consultant who led an international tourism industry study tour of the country in September. Mr. Plimmer, who plans to deliver his team's recommendations next week to North Korea's National Tourism Administration, said by telephone from Wellington: "They seemed to be very open to ideas, wanted to show us a full range of their product -- the mountain scenery, the caves, very old Korean temples, some going back to the 11th century or earlier."
 Last year, about 100,000 foreigners visited North Korea, while about 5 million visited South Korea. China accounts for the largest number, about 35,000 a year. Some are attracted by casinos, which are illegal in China. Some come for "retro tourism" -- to get a sense of what their country looked like in the Red Guard days of the 1970's.
 Foreign visitors increasingly see evidence of a grass-roots market economy.
 This year, large market halls have been built in Pyongyang and in most of the major cities and towns. There, people buy and sell vegetables, grain, shoes, clothes and cosmetics at largely free-floating prices. The markets legalize what was a flourishing black market and make up for the state's inability to maintain its food and clothing rationing system. 
 Increasingly, farm managers choose their crops and individuals now make money repairing bicycles and renovating apartments, according to Kathi Zellweger of the Catholic charity Caritas, who also toured North Korea in September.
 "Small family-size businesses or cooperatives are now providing services or producing goods hinting at a start of a bottom-up process," Ms. Zellweger, who is Swiss, wrote of her 2,000-mile tour of the nation, which is largely closed to Americans. 
 Over the last year, North Korea has sent three economic fact-finding missions to Vietnam. Some analysts here believe that Pyongyang is following that nation's slow move to open markets, a controlled shift that allows the Communists to keep power.
 In North Korea this year, government-run companies won more freedom to invest their foreign exchange earnings in production. Private groups increasingly are leasing from the state restaurants, hotels and shops. Giving a modern business patina to Pyongyang, about 3,000 cellphones, largely Motorola or Nokia, have gone into service this year.
 Moving toward a free floating exchange rate, Pyongyang banks now pay around 900 North Korean won for the dollar, near the black market rate, and far above the fixed rate of 2.1 won to the dollar of 18 months ago. 
 In September, a new impulse to markets may have come with the appointment of Pak Pong Ju as the nation's prime minister, a post with power over economic affairs. Last year, as chemical industry minister, Mr. Pak led a group of North Koreans on a tour of semiconductor plants in South Korea.
 But, without an agreement on the nuclear weapons issue, the main source of foreign investment in North Korea will probably be South Korea.
 Over 1,300 small and medium-size South Korean companies have applied to set up factories in an industrial park that is to be built next year at Kaesong, just over the North Korean border, about 40 miles north of Seoul.
 Designed to match Northern labor with Southern capital, the park offers Southern industrialists Korean-speaking workers willing to work for 26 cents an hour, compared with South Korea's $2.25 an hour. Since 1990 about 22,000 South Korean companies have set up businesses in China. The new park is seen as a first step to divert this capital flow to develop North Korea.
 Much of this cross-border economic activity is done in a low-profile way to minimize attention from Washington. When a ground-breaking ceremony was held at Kaesong last June, no foreign reporters were invited.
 But even if officials see Kaesong as a model for a future reindustrialization of North Korea under free-market lines, the project will collide with American, Japanese and European penalties, in the form of high import duties.
 "Goods from the Kaesong complex can be competitive owing to the low wages of workers there, but should their origin be printed as North Korea, they can no longer maintain price competitiveness," warned Kim In Seok, an official with the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry, a business organization in Seoul. "In that case, exports to the United States are almost impossible."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A group of South Korean tourists gathered recently under a statue of Kim Il Sung, the former North Korean leader, in Pyongyang. South Korean visits to and investment in the North are on the rise. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. W1); In a sign of changing times, once-dour North Korean customs officers offer smiles and small talk to visitors from South Korea at a temporary checkpoint on the northern side of the Demilitarized Zone. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); TRENDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (74%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (74%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (73%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); TRAVEL AGENTS (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (69%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (68%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (68%); HEROIN (67%); OIL EXPLORATION (65%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (65%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (64%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (53%) International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends; Automobiles; Roads and Traffic; Building (Construction); Railroads

COMPANY: GTB INVEST ASA (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (51%); SIC3533 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (51%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) PACIFIC OCEAN (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%) South Korea; North Korea 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



443 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET --Manhattan; 
Small Shops Lead the Demand in Retailing

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
Average asking rents have risen for retail space in Manhattan in the last year, most sharply in prime shopping corridors like Fifth Avenue, Madison Avenue and 57th Street.
 The greatest demand came from small tenants looking for stores with less than 10,000 square feet of space, according to a study by the Real Estate Board of New York to be released this week. But 16 deals for larger blocks were also done; the biggest among them was Home Depot's lease for 108,000 square feet at 28-40 West 23rd Street. 
 Still, more stores are available now than at this time last year in part because of the bankruptcies of retailers like Today's Man and the Wiz. In turn the number of square feet on the market rose to 14.8 million from 14.6 million. 
 The real estate board's report, which uses data collected from 15 retail companies, looks at 2,278 available ground-floor stores across Manhattan.
 Steven Spinola, president of the real estate board, said the rise in average asking rents and in tenants' appetite for space reflected the rebounding economy, consumer willingness to spend more and an increase in retailers willing to open stores. "This report," he said, "re-establishes the appeal of prime shopping corridors."
 Collectively, the asking rents in those corridors rose 35 percent, compared with an 8.2 percent increase for all of Manhattan. Asking rents on Madison Avenue from 57th to 67th Streets climbed the highest, 39 percent, to $684 a square foot annually. On 57th Street between Fifth and Park Avenues, asking rents were up 23 percent, to $678 a square foot, and on Fifth Avenue from 48th to 59th Streets, the gain was 23 percent, to $650 a square foot.
 While actual rents in prime areas are close to asking rents, said Robert K. Futterman, who heads the retail brokerage firm bearing his name, in more marginal locations, like the meatpacking district, there is a 20 percent difference between asking and actual rents. 
 Benjamin Fox, an executive vice president of Newmark New Spectrum Retail, said asking rents "are not up to the level they were before 9/11, but the market is healthier than it was last year and the year before." More tenants are in the market, he said, and there is little space available in prime areas.
 Brokers are also sanguine about the prospects for vacant stores, including those for Today's Man and the Wiz left on Fifth Avenue in the mid-40's. Clifford F. Molloy, a senior managing director at the GVA Williams real estate concern, said those spaces, in the 25,000- to 30,000-square-foot range, could be divided into smaller blocks that would be in strong demand. 
 The report cites rents that are broad averages, leveling the wide variation in locations. In the year ended Sept. 30, the report said average asking rents in Manhattan rose 8.2 percent, to $92 a square foot.
 Beyond the premier corridors, rents on the East Side registered the biggest gain, climbing 29 percent, to $143 a square foot. Meanwhile, asking rents in Midtown grew 10 percent, to $121 a square foot; on the West Side they increased 7 percent, to $107; and in Midtown South they went up 4 percent, to $74.
 Some rents reached four digits, which is the case at 689 Fifth Avenue, on the northeast corner of the intersection with 54th Street, where the asking rent for the ground floor is $1,000 a square foot.
Downtown, defined as the area below Canal Street, rents stabilized at $58 a square foot while the available space fell slightly to 2.319 million square feet, the report said. In Upper Manhattan, the area above 97th Street on the East Side and 111th Street west of Fifth Avenue, rents held firm at $50 a square foot annually, while available space inched down to 564,944 square feet.
 Mr. Fox said tenants aggressively pursuing small blocks of space include wireless phone stores, automated teller machines and fast-food chains like Subway, not necessarily luxury retailers.
 AT& T Wireless leased 10 stores in Manhattan last year, said Mr. Molloy, whose firm represents the company. He and other brokers said banks' hunger for space continued this year when they opened 20 branches, including one with 30,703 square feet that Wachovia leased at 540 Madison Avenue, between 54th and 55th Streets. 
 The hope, Mr. Spinola said, is that more of the bigger tenants will follow. That will help absorb the blocks of 10,000 square feet or more, which represent about half of the available 14.8 million square feet of space.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Retail Rents Rising"While Manhattan has more store vacancies than last year, asking rents continue to go up, especially for the smallest spaces. Asking rents by store sizePrice per square foot 1 to 1,000 sq. ft.'03: $148 1,001 to 2,500'03: $102 2,501 to 5,000'03: $81 5,001 to 10,000'03: $76 10,000 and larger'03: $80 Graph tracks prices from 2000 to 2002.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (91%); RETAILERS (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; RENTING AND LEASING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); BANKRUPTCIES 

ORGANIZATION: REAL ESTATE BOARD OF NEW YORK; HOME DEPOT INC; WIZ, THE; TODAY'S MAN 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY; FIFTH AVENUE (NYC); MADISON AVENUE (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



444 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Anatomy of a failed product introduction: How a nasal spray flu vaccine flopped in the marketplace.

BYLINE:  By Andrew Pollack 

 BODY:
IT sounds like a marketer's dream -- a flu vaccine that is given through a spray in the nose rather than an often painful shot in the arm. But attempts to sell such a vaccine this flu season have turned into a nightmare. 
 Despite a short but costly advertising campaign, sales of the nasal spray flu vaccine, known as FluMist, have fallen startlingly short of projections. 
 Only a few months ago, MedImmune, the biotechnology company in Gaithersburg, Md., that developed FluMist, had forecast sales of 4 million to 6 million doses this flu season, the most it could make. Reaching that goal seemed possible since 60 million to 90 million Americans get influenza vaccinations each year. 
 But MedImmune executives said yesterday on a conference call with analysts and investors that only 400,000 doses had been sold to pharmacies and doctors' offices and not many more sales were expected this winter. 
 Moreover, they said, as much as 50 to 80 percent of those doses might be returned unused, meaning that the number of consumers who actually get FluMist could end up as low as 80,000. On Tuesday, MedImmune cut its outlook for revenue from FluMist this year, with estimates of $120 million to $140 million whittled to a range of $55 million to $85 million. 
 While it has been known that sales of FluMist were lagging, especially since Wal-Mart dropped a plan to sell the nasal spray in 1,000 of its stores this year, the degree of the shortfall shocked even the biggest doubters. 
 "The FluMist launch is going worse than even the most bearish analysts -- that would be us -- predicted," Joel Sendek, an analyst at Lazard, wrote in a report yesterday. 
 Mr. Sendek slashed his estimates for sales of the vaccine this year from $90 million to $3 million, corresponding to 100,000 doses. MedImmune's shares fell $1.08, to $24.50. 
 FluMist always faced some big marketing obstacles. The vaccine was approved by the Food and Drug Administration only for healthy people from ages 5 to 49. But these are people who rarely get flu shots. Most flu shots are taken by people over 50 and others who have health problems like asthma, diabetes and cardiovascular disease, since these are people most likely to get seriously ill or die from influenza.
 So Wyeth, the co-marketer of the nasal spray, and MedImmune spent $25 million on a nine-week direct-to-consumer advertising campaign that was one of the largest ever for vaccines, products that are more apt to be publicized through public service announcements. The campaign emphasized not the risk of death but flu's economic and social disruptions to the lives of usually healthy people.
 "Who would replace you if you got the flu?" was the slogan of the television commercials developed by Saatchi & Saatchi, part of the Publicis Groupe. One 60-second spot showed a father struggling to dress and feed his children with their mother sick in bed. Another showed business executives bungling an important presentation when their team leader was absent with the flu. 
 Armando Anido, senior vice president for sales and marketing at MedImmune, said in the conference call yesterday that the advertising and public relations campaign had succeeded. Brand awareness in the target population was 40 percent, he said. Yet, he said, "All of this awareness has not led to action on the part of the consumer" to get the vaccine. 
 In retrospect, executives said, many things went wrong. FluMist was positioned as a premium product with a wholesale price of $49, several times higher than a conventional flu shot. But it turned out most consumers preferred the pain of the needle to the payment for the nasal spray. The price sparked "more resistance than our market research led us to believe," Mr. Anido said.
 Safety concerns were also an issue. FluMist is a live vaccine, made from attenuated flu viruses. It can theoretically give people, especially those with weakened immune systems, a mild case of the flu. MedImmune executives said the chances of this were extremely low but that somehow consumers and doctors had gotten misperceptions about the vaccine's safety. 
 The need to keep the vaccine frozen until used also discouraged some doctors and pharmacies from handling it. A late start also hurt --FluMist got Food and Drug Administration approval only in June, long after many pharmacies had ordered flu shots for this winter. 
 To persuade pharmacies and doctor's offices to take FluMist, Wyeth and MedImmune said they could return any unsold doses. But that gambit is backfiring, because pharmacies and doctors, knowing they can return unused doses, are using their conventional flu shots first, which cannot be returned.
To increase sales, Wyeth and MedImmune are now offering consumers mail-in rebates of up to $25. Wyeth has increased the number of sales representatives for the vaccine to 3,000 from their old sales force of a little more than 400. 
 The companies are also testing a vaccine that needs only refrigeration, not the more expensive freezing. And MedImmune executives said that new clinical trials might prove the superiority of FluMist over the injected vaccines, dispel issues of safety and lead to approval for use by children under 5, adults 50 to 64 and possibly those with health problems. But such approvals will not come for a few years. 
 Mr. Sendek, the analyst, said future prospects were not bright. In a telephone survey, Lazard contacted 353 physician's offices and pharmacies listed on the FluMist Web site as carrying the vaccine. Most of the comments Lazard received were negative, citing lack of consumer demand, the high price, the perceived lack of insurance reimbursement and possible side effects. 
 "Next year is not likely to be much better, because many doctors, pharmacies and patients don't like FluMist," Mr. Sendek wrote. "This was the biggest surprise of our survey, as we truly believe that FluMist has advantages." 
 Perhaps most worrisome for MedImmune, the survey found, were suggestions that some people did not find the nasal mist particularly pleasant, its main selling point over the needle. "Mist is a misnomer, it's still a lot of liquid," Lazard quoted a person at a Florida family medical office saying. "It is difficult to administer and the kids I gave it to didn't like it at all." 
 MedImmune's chief executive, David M. Mott, asked by an analyst on the conference call if MedImmune is considering dropping the product, replied, "Everything is on the table." But he also said that most people who try the nasal spray like it. He added, "We see nothing that calls into question the ultimate success of this brand." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (97%); ANTIVIRALS (93%); INFLUENZA (93%); DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEMS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (75%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); BUSINESS TO CONSUMER MARKETING (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); APPROVALS (68%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (60%); DIABETES (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (56%); CONFERENCE CALLS (54%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (53%) INFLUENZA; ADVERTISING AND MARKETING; VACCINATION AND IMMUNIZATION 

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); MEDIMMUNE INC (57%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MEDIMMUNE INC; WYETH 

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%) SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH; 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



445 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: At Sniper Trial, A Chilling Tape Is Heard by Jury 

BYLINE:  By ADAM LIPTAK 

DATELINE: CHESAPEAKE, Va., Nov. 18 

 BODY:
Last November, during questioning, a homicide detective gave Lee Malvo a chance to show that his heart was not entirely cold.
 The detective asked Mr. Malvo, accused of shooting 13 people last fall in the sniper attacks in the Washington region, whether he might not have, for a moment at least, hoped that some of the people whom he shot would survive. 
 "I intended to kill them all," Mr. Malvo replied in soft, calm voice. 
Ten people died, and Mr. Malvo is now on trial here on charges that he had a role in what prosecutors call a terrorist rampage.
An hourlong audiotape of the questioning played for the jury on Tuesday provided the first extended look at Mr. Malvo's thought processes and demeanor. On the tape, Mr. Malvo spoke in clipped, cogent, bloodless phrases. "I marveled at how intelligent he was," the detective, Samuel Walker, said. "At one point, I kind of chuckled to myself to try to decide how to counter a question or statement that he made." 
In trying to persuade Mr. Malvo to talk, Detective Walker suggested that his age could help him avoid the death penalty. Mr. Malvo was 17 at the time of the shootings. 
"They are going to charge me as an adult," said Mr. Malvo, who is now 18. "I know they are."
Mr. Malvo is indeed being tried as an adult. He is charged with killing Linda Franklin, 47, an F.B.I. analyst. He will face the death penalty if the prosecution can prove that he participated in more than one killing in a three-year period or that Ms. Franklin's killing was part of a terror campaign.
The answers that he gave Detective Walker will most likely help the prosecution on both counts. Mr. Malvo explained his role in the killings. On Monday, John A. Muhammad, 42, was convicted of capital murder for his role in the shootings.
"Were you the triggerman in all of them?" Detective Walker asked Mr. Malvo in the questioning. 
"Basically, yeah," Mr. Malvo said.
The detective asked, "Basically means in most of them, but not all?" 
Mr. Malvo replied, "In all of them."
He also described what he thought would have happened had the two men not been stopped.
"It would have went to another phase that they couldn't handle," he said, referring to the authorities.
He said he expected martial law to be imposed and the region's economy to be wrecked.
Judge Jane Marum Roush has rejected a defense request to suppress the tape, made on Nov. 7, 2002, in Fairfax. Mr. Malvo had been read his rights and did not specifically ask for a lawyer. But he may not have understood that the lawyers appointed for him after his capture in Maryland two weeks earlier no longer represented him because he had been transferred that morning from federal custody there to state authorities in Virginia, his lawyers say. 
After court, Craig S. Cooley, a lawyer for Mr. Malvo, said that on the tape Mr. Malvo "was taking greater credit than he should bear responsibility for." Mr. Malvo told Detective Walker that he had nothing to gain by talking. Their sophisticated wrangling on that point went on for a time.
He was apparently ultimately persuaded to talk by a combination of appeals to his pride, to the historical record and, especially, to his desire to protect the man he considered his father, Mr. Muhammad. Detective Walker suggested that Mr. Malvo could help Mr. Muhammad by taking responsibility for the actual shootings, a reference to Virginia's "triggerman rule," which allows the death penalty just for people directly responsible for killings.
Mr. Malvo resisted the argument.
"I gave my word," he said, apparently referring to Mr. Muhammad. "And I said, 'I'll only let them know so much.' " 
He declined to answer several questions on Mr. Muhammad's role in the shootings. Mr. Muhammad was convicted under a broad interpretation of the triggerman rule.
In his opening statement last week, Mr. Cooley said Mr. Muhammad had indoctrinated his client to take responsibility for the shootings.
Mr. Malvo was asked specifically about just one shooting, of Dean H. Meyers on Oct. 9, 2002, at a gasoline station in Manassas. Another taped questioning, also on Nov. 7, 2002, touches on other shootings and has not yet been played for the jury.
Mr. Malvo made misstatements. He said Mr. Meyers's car was a light-colored "decent family sized car." It was, in fact, a dark midsize sedan. He also misstated the side from which Mr. Meyers was shot.
Mr. Malvo's lawyers have said this shows that he overstated his role.
Mr. Malvo gave Detective Walker a brief tutorial on his Bushmaster rifle. It is, he said, "one of the best weapons made," because of its ability to cause "bodily injury or death."
"Say you aim for the upper left chest cavity," he said. "He's dead."
In adjacent Virginia Beach, Mr. Muhammad's trial moved into the second day of its penalty phase. 
On Tuesday, the prosecution introduced evidence intended to show that Mr. Muhammad would be a future danger if not put to death. A friend of Mr. Muhammad from Tacoma, Wash., testified that he hadvoiced anti-Semitic sentiments and admiration for Hitler. Prison guards in Prince William County, where Mr. Muhammad was held before trial, described efforts to escape, as well as to create a weapon from a spoon. 
On the tape made last November, Mr. Malvo blamed his "laziness" and "lack of discipline" for the capture of the two men. "I departed from something," he said, apparently referring to falling asleep when he should have been on watch. "For five minutes of pleasure."
It was nearing midnight when the interview ended, and the officials had to deliver Mr. Malvo to a magistrate before the day was over under a state law for juvenile defendants.
"I've given you a lot," Mr. Malvo said as Detective Walker departed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (92%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); TERRORISM (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); CAPITAL CRIMES (75%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (75%); RIGHT TO COUNSEL (61%); MURDER (58%) MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SERIAL MURDERS; CONFESSIONS; RECORDINGS (AUDIO) 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%)

PERSON: FRANKLIN, LINDA; MALVO, JOHN LEE; MUHAMMAD, JOHN ALLEN; LIPTAK, ADAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%) WASHINGTON (DC); VIRGINIA; MARYLAND; FALLS CHURCH (VA)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



446 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Getting a Job in the Valley Is Easy, if You're Perfect

BYLINE:  By MATT RICHTEL and LAURIE J. FLYNN 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 18 

 BODY:
As the economy bounces back, even Silicon Valley's job market is showing signs of revival. But it has a long way to go. Employers are being extremely picky, the few jobs being offered pay less than they once did, and they do not come with the bountiful benefits and sterling opportunities of the 1990's boom, job seekers say.
 Just ask Cary Snyder. After 16 months without a job, he is joining a four-person start-up as a technical analyst, having given up his search for just the right position. He may not have job security, but he says it beats combing through want ads. 
 "Not only are there fewer jobs, but the ones that are out there don't pay as much as they used to," Mr. Snyder said. Still, he added: "Looks like I'll be getting a regular paycheck in January or February." 
 Silicon Valley, the humbled epicenter of the nation's information technology industry, is stirring again, buoyed by revived corporate profits and fresh injections of still relatively small amounts of venture capital into a variety of start-ups.
 But the region's job market is mending only slowly. The continued displacement of basic-level technology jobs overseas, and the boomerang effect as companies use the new technologies largely invented here to sharply increase productivity, is keeping employment demand and salaries markedly below their boom-time levels. 
 Indeed, what qualifies as good news in the technology industry is not so much evidence of overall job gains, but signs that job losses have slowed considerably. That is the conclusion of a report due out on Wednesday from the American Electronics Association in Washington, which found that the information technology sector is expected to lose about 234,000 jobs this year, most of them earlier in the year, compared with 540,000 job losses the year before. 
 While some established companies are still cutting jobs, the pace of hiring -- mostly at smaller firms -- has clearly started to pick up. On Craigslist, an online service relied upon by job seekers throughout the San Francisco Bay area, the number of job postings rose to 1,800 a week in September and October, up from 1,400 early in the year.
 Mike Curran, director of Nova, a job retraining program in San Jose, Calif., said his clients were having an easier time finding jobs lately, but agreed that what employers were looking for had changed. 
 "More people are getting interviewed and more people are getting jobs," Mr. Curran said. But "companies are being very selective," he added, "requiring four or five interviews, and they're looking for exact characteristics."
 Owen Rubin can attest to that. Mr. Rubin, 49, an engineer who was laid off from his $165,000 management position more than a year ago, had an interview recently at a software start-up where he found himself getting "jazzed" aboutthe opportunity to lead the engineering team.
 It did have one major drawback, though. "I had to work for free," Mr. Rubin said. The company could not afford to pay in cash and offered to compensate him in shares alone. Still, he was disappointed that he was not offered the job.
 "They give you a list of the 30 things they want," he said, "and if you're not an identical match, they move on immediately."
 Stephen Levy, chief economist with the Center for the Continuing Study of the California Economy in Palo Alto, said that in the tech bust many companies learned to do more with less. "The Silicon Valley economy is improving, except for jobs -- and that's not a vacuous statement," he said. "The Valley can be alive and kicking and not get back to the hiring levels of 2000."
 William T. Archey, chief executive of the electronics association, agreed that productivity gains were part of the issue. "We have the use of high technology in producing high technology," he said. "It has engendered less demand for people."
 At the same time, many here worry about the prospect of jobs flowing to places like India and China. Forrester Research projects that by 2005, as many as 588,000 service jobs now held by Americans will shift abroad. By 2015, the nation will probably lose about 3.3 million such jobs overseas, but it is not clear how many of those will be in technology.
 As job opportunities shrank in recent years, so did salaries. For example, in Santa Clara County, home to Palo Alto and Stanford University, the average salary fell to $63,000 in 2002, the most recent year with statistics available, down from $76,300 in 2000, according to the Labor Department. 
 In California, which lost 123,000 technology jobs in 2002, the employment market has stabilized but has not yet started to add workers. Employers in Santa Clara County reported 865,800 jobs in October, up 2,500 from September. But the gains came in health and educational services and in government employment. The information technology sector lost about 700 jobs. 
 But there are also evident signs of recovery. The stock market's rebound has cleared the way for new initial public offerings. That, in turn, has given venture capitalists the incentive to invest in start-ups, and some of them are hiring. 
 Technology industry headhunters say that demand for job candidates is starting to pick up. "I'm hearing more optimism from my technology clients than I have in the last 24 or 36 months," said David Nosal, who runs the Northern California operations of Korn/Ferry International, the nation's largest executive search company. 
 Corporate earnings and sales have turned around too. Intel, the Silicon Valley bellwether, reported big gains in profits and revenue for the third quarter but nonetheless has managed to keep its head count flat, at 89,000 compared with 88,700 in the second quarter. Chuck Malloy, a company spokesman, said Intel had no plans to hire in significant numbers in the near future. 
 Cisco Systems, a maker of Internet equipment and a bellwether of the fortunes of the telecommunications industry, is in a similar position. Despite reporting sales last quarter that exceeded $5 billion for the first time in two years, Cisco said that it cut its work force by 259 people.
 Cisco said that it did not intend to add many employees until it increased productivity. The company said it now took in $594,000 in revenue per employee, up from $545,000 the previous quarter. But a company spokeswoman, Abby Smith, said Cisco's goal was to achieve sales of $700,000 per employee.
 At that point, "we'll consider hiring again," Ms. Smith said, adding that the company had not said how soon it expected to achieve that goal.
 Whenever it comes, it looks as if it will be too late for Tim Rowledge, who is giving up on his job prospects here. A 43-year-old programmer, Mr. Rowledge did so well as a software engineer and consultant during the boom that he managed to buy two houses. But he has sold his vacation home near Yosemite and is preparing to sell his primary home in Milpitas, near San Jose, too. After spending 18 months looking in vain for work, he has decided to move to Canada, despite what he describes as a "definite uptick in consulting."
 "There appears to be a huge push for outsourcing," Mr. Rowledge said, lamenting what he sees as a nefarious scheme to force American computer programmers to make themselves redundant. "One of the current favorite tricks of companies is to say, 'We're laying off you, and you, and you. Now you, you get to keep your job, but you have to go to India or teach a bunch of Indians your job."'

GRAPHIC: Photo: Owen Rubin of Oakland, Calif., lost his management job more than a year ago. (Photo by Kim Kulish for The New York Times) Chart: "Is Technology Turning?"As signs emerge that prospects for technology jobs are finally improving, a new report details the sharp losses in the industry last year. CHANGE IN JOBS AT TOP INDUSTRIES IN 2002 Health care: +3%Finance and insurance: +1Construction: -1%Food manufacturing: -2Technology: -8 TECHNOLOGY MANUFACTURING Measuring and control instruments: -9%Computers and peripherals: -13Semiconductors: -13Communications equipment: -18Electronic components: -22 TECHNOLOGY SERVICES Research, development and testing: +1%Engineering: -2%Telecommunications: -8Internet: -9Computer systems design: -10 (Source by American Electronics Association) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (97%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); INTERVIEWS (84%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (71%); COMPUTER PERIPHERALS (67%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; FOREIGN LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES 

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ELECTRONICS ASSOCIATION (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: RICHTEL, MATT; FLYNN, LAURIE J 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) SILICON VALLEY (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



447 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
MBNA Claims Pieces of Wilmington's Elegant Past

BYLINE:  By MAUREEN MILFORD 

DATELINE: WILMINGTON, Del., Nov. 17 

 BODY:
Not since the 1980's, when Hercules Inc., a specialty chemical company, built an architectural showpiece to bring itself out of the shadow of DuPont, has a real estate project carried so much symbolic freight here.
 The credit card giant MBNA, a relative newcomer, is spending about $32 million to renovate an elegant granite structure that was intended to be the most important edifice in the city when it opened in 1916. Then known as the Public Building, the structure has recently been used as a courthouse. When construction is completed in the fall of 2004, it will become MBNA's headquarters, with senior managers relocated from one of the six other buildings that the bank owns in the immediate area. 
 In Wilmington, a city dominated for 90 years by DuPont, the bank's acquisition of the neo-Classical style building has become a bricks-and-mortar symbol of Delaware's changing economic power base. 
 "It announces that MBNA is a big player in town in a dramatic way," said Carol E. Hoffecker, author of "Corporate Capital: Wilmington in the 20th Century."
 What is more, MBNA owns and operates all its buildings, a practice that runs contrary to current corporate real estate strategies that emphasize leasing or sale leasebacks.
 MBNA, which started operations here in 1981 by leasing a vacant A.&P. store month to month after Delaware passed favorable banking laws, has now overtaken DuPont as the state's largest private employer.
 In 2002, finance, insurance and real estate produced 45 percent of Delaware's output, while manufacturing generated just 13 percent, said Philip R. Hopkins, an economist with Global Insight in Eddystone, Pa. In 1980, the finance, insurance and real estate sector produced 13.3 percent of output, while manufacturing generated 34.8 percent.
 "The roles have been reversed," Mr. Hopkins said.
 Although dozens of banks migrated to Delaware to take advantage of the credit card environment, MBNA emerged as the dominant company. It is the largest independent credit card issuer in the world, with 55 million customers, and the second largest over all, behind Citigroup.
 W. Barksdale Maynard, an architectural historian who is writing a book on Delaware's buildings, said no company since DuPont had done more to reshape downtown Wilmington than MBNA.
 In doing so, MBNA has been faithful to the city's architectural heritage, with modern versions of classical designs. The bank also chose not to build skyscrapers, which would have changed the scale of the city, Ms. Hoffecker said. 
 John L. Bone, chief of staff of ING Direct, the Delaware-based savings bank subsidiary of the Dutch banking and insurance giant ING, praised the MBNA buildings as "very polished," a trait often associated with DuPont.
 "They're doing exactly what DuPont did; it's remarkable," Mr. Maynard said.
 Rodney Square and the former courthouse are considered an urban planning triumph of John J. Raskob, a leading DuPont executive who, along with Pierre S. du Pont, was a developer of the Empire State Building. 
 Under the influence of the City Beautiful movement, Mr. Raskob quietly organized a group to buy up properties in Wilmington, then rallied the public behind the idea of a new building for both the city and New Castle County governments. A design competition was held and the winning architect was Palmer, Hornbostel & Jones of New York.
 Homsey Architects, whose president, Eldon du P. Homsey, is a descendant of the DuPont Company's founder, is handling the renovation.
 In terms of the sheer number of buildings, the bank overtook DuPont soon after it relocated its headquarters to the northeast corner of Rodney Square in 1995 from a suburban campus southwest of Wilmington.
 Today, MBNA -- whose subsidiary MBNA America Bank pioneered the marketing of credit cards to membership organizations -- has seven buildings on the east side of Rodney Square. DuPont still owns its 1905 headquarters on the square's west side, housing the Hotel du Pont, but it shed other office structures in the 1990's. 
 In addition to the courthouse project, MBNA has begun work on an $84 million, nine-story structure southeast of the courthouse. It will house the company's finance department when it opens in the spring of 2005.
 When both projects are completed, MBNA will have approximately 1.7 million square feet of space in Wilmington. Altogether, it has approximately 4.6 million square feet of space in the state, including its acquisition of the former offices of the Columbia Gas System and DuPont's former Louviers complex near Newark, Del.
 The bank bucks a trend by owning rather than leasing space. In a study in September by CoreNet Global of Atlanta, an association of corporate real estate executives, more than half the executives surveyed said their companies leased at least 60 percent of their real estate portfolios. Five years ago, 48 percent were leased, said Richard S. Kadzis, CoreNet's director of marketing.
 "MBNA does seem to cut against the trend," Mr. Kadzis said. "Companies have had to be more creative about cost control. Leasing has been part of the cost control picture."
 Lance L. Weaver, executive vice chairman and chief administrative officer of MBNA, said it was less expensive for the bank to own and operate its own buildings than to have a developer build and then lease them back to the company.
 "We've always had the philosophy that it's more efficient to build our own," Mr. Weaver said.
 This ownership commitment to the central business district has led to a recent wave of private investment in the city. In the last 18 months, there has been more third-party investment activity in the downtown area of Wilmington than in the previous five years, said Robert J. Fahey, senior director at the Philadelphia office of Cushman & Wakefield, the real estate services concern.
 "Any town, regardless of size, needs a strong corporate commitment in order to attract outside investment capital," Mr. Fahey said. 
 The investment was made as the third-quarter vacancy rate in the central business district was running at 15.2 percent, the highest level since the early 1990's. Landlords are spending more for tenant improvements and, in some cases, offering a few months of free rent, said Daniel R. Reeder, senior vice president with CB Richard Ellis real estate in Greenville, Del.
 The asking rate to lease top-of-the-line space averages $24.75 a square foot. Mr. Fahey said that when concessions are factored in, effective lease rates are probably off by about 5 percent from their peak in 2001.
 MBNA -- which bought the courthouse building in September 2002 from the state for $13.5 million -- began work on it in June with the demolition of the interior. It took possession of the building after the courts moved to a new courthouse several blocks south.
 While the facade remained a model of symmetry, the interior has been notably altered over the years to accommodate different public uses. MBNA plans to return the building to its original design, although it will not be an exact restoration. A grand hall will connect two existing rotundas on the north and south ends of the building. The space will be used for company and community events.
 The major exterior change to the facade facing Rodney Square will be the replacement of the carved "City Hall" and "Court House" above each entrance with a carved "MBNA." The carved public seals will remain. The steps and terrace, which once extended along the entire front of the building, will be shortened to two sets of steps at each entrance, joined by a raised terrace with a balustrade.
 Although some preservationists are dismayed that the building will no longer be open to the public, most historians and architects here are pleased that a monument to civic pride will not be demolished or substantially altered.
 "We still have the concept of Rodney Square as it was conceived in the early 20th century," Ms. Hoffecker said, "when classical architecture was very much in vogue and stood for quality and high-mindedness."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The courthouse on Rodney Square in Wilmington, Del., being renovated by the credit card giant MBNA. (Photo by Marty Katz for The New York Times) Chart: "Data Update"Index of brokerage fees paid, not seasonally adjusted, through October. December 1995 = 100 Graph tracks commercial sales and commercial leasing fees paid since 2000. (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics) Map of Delaware highlighting Wilmington and surrounding areas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (88%); CHEMICALS MFG (78%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); CREDIT CARDS (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); RETAILERS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); RELOCATIONS (71%); INSURANCE (69%); BANKING LAW (69%); WRITERS (67%); HISTORY (66%); ACQUISITIONS (54%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; COURTHOUSES 

COMPANY: E I DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO (94%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); HERCULES INC (92%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); ING GROEP NV (56%); ING BANK FSB (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) MBNA CORP 

TICKER: DUPP (PAR) (94%); DD (NYSE) (94%); BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); INGA (BIT) (56%); INGA (AMS) (56%); ING (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (94%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (94%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS325998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCT & PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (51%) SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS; 

PERSON: MILFORD, MAUREEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (97%) DELAWARE, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) WILMINGTON (DEL)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



448 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
TISCH, LAURENCE A.

 BODY:
 TISCH--Laurence A. Bob, Joan, Steve, Jamie, Laurie and Jonathan and their children feel blessed to have spent so many wonderful years with Bob's brother and our dear "Uncle Larry." We learned wisdom, passion, integrity, and "tikkun olam" by following his example. His remarkable legacy will remain with us forever. The Preston Robert Tisch Family 
TISCH--Laurence A. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of our distinguished former national president, Laurence A. Tisch. Mr. Tisch demonstrated his devotion to the ATS, the Technion and Israel by serving as president in 1972 and 1973, having served as vice president of the Society in 1968. During his tenure, he encouraged visionary developments during a time of economic retrenchment following the Yom Kippur War. The Technion Faculty of Medicine was officially merged with the university, making the Technion one of the very few technological and scientific universities in the world with a medical school. The Samuel Neaman Institute for Advanced Studies in Science and Technology, a leading Israeli think tank, began to take shape under Mr. Tisch's leadership. The first Harvey Prizes, which became internationally recognized awards for scientific achievement, were bestowed during his tenure. A member of the Technion International Board of Governors, Mr. Tisch established the Tisch Student Aid Fund to provide scholarships and fellowships for Technion students. He was awarded an honorary doctorate in 1989 at a major event chaired by Henry Taub, chairman of the Technion International Board of Governors, during which Mr. Tisch was lauded by former New York State Governor Mario Cuomo. Mr. Tisch's dedicated leadership, which served as a model of Jewish and educational philanthropy, will be missed. We extend our condolences to his wife Billie, brother Preston Robert, his sons Andrew, Dan, James and Tom, and the entire Tisch family. The American Society for Technion-Israel Institute of Technology Stephen A. Laser, President Evelyn Berger, Chairman, Board of Directors Melvyn H. Bloom, Executive Vice President The Technion-Israel Institute of Technology Prof. Yitzhak Apeloig, Pres. Ben Z. Sosewitz, Chairman, International Board of Governors Henry Taub, Hon. Chairman, International Board of Governors
TISCH--Laurence A. The Trustees and the entire University of Pennsylvania community are saddened by the death of alumnus and former Trustee, Laurence A. Tisch. A graduate of the Wharton School with a master's degree in industrial management, he was a recipient of Wharton's Gold Medal and the Joseph Wharton Award. Legendary within American higher education for his philanthropy, he generously supported The Wharton School's Campaign for Sustained Leadership. His living legacy at Penn extends to three generations with son James an MBA graduate from Wharton; son Andrew the father of Alexander, C'00, and Lacey C'03; and son Daniel the father of David, C'03, and Michael, C'06. Laurence Tisch demonstrated extraordinary leadership as a businessman, volunteer, and philanthropist. He will be dearly missed by his many friends in the Penn community. We extend the University's heartfelt condolences to his widow, Billie, and all the members of his family. May his memory be a blessing. Judith Rodin, President James S. Riepe, Chair of the Board of Trustees Patrick T. Harker, Dean of The Wharton School
TISCH--Laurence A. The President, Board of Trustees and entire Montefiore Medical Center community are profoundly saddened by the death of Laurence A. Tisch, beloved father of Daniel Tisch, long time and esteemed member of the Montefiore Board of Trustees for over 20 years. Laurence Tisch, along with his brother Bob, led a family whose name has long been prominent in the world of business but perhaps even more prominent for its extraordinary philanthropic support of a wide array of institutions and causes across this City, the Nation and particularly, the State of Israel. Our sincere and heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife, Billie, his sons, Andrew, Daniel, James and Thomas and his brother, Bob, and all of his family. Spencer Foreman, M.D., President Jay B. Langner, Chairman Board of Trustees Montefiore Medical Center
TISCH--Laurence A. The American Academy of Arts and Sciences mourns the passing of Laurence A. Tisch, distinguished business leader, visionary philanthropist, and honored member of the Academy. His commitment to education, medicine, and the arts epitomizes the Academy's mission to advance learning in service to society. The breadth of his philanthrophy and the depth of his concern made him a great citizen of New York, the nation, and the world. The Academy extends its condolences to his wife, Billie; his brother, Bob; and the entire Tisch family. Patricia Meyer Spacks, President Leslie Berlowitz, Executive Officer Louis Cabot, Vice President Emilio Bizzi, Secretary John S. Reed, Treasurer
TISCH--Laurence A. "Words without deeds are nothing. One must show by way of example." David Ben-Gurion said these words and Laurence Tisch lived them. We remember our dear friend Larry, a source of inspiration in the world of business and philanthropy, to Israel, the Jewish people and to human kind. Our deepest condolences to Billie and the entire Tisch family. May his memory be a blessing. Lord Weidenfeld, Chairman, Board of Governors, BGU Prof. Avishay Braverman, President, BGU Lis Gaines, President, AABGU
TISCH--Laurence A. The Board of Trustees and staff of the American Museum of Natural History note with deep sadness the death of Laurence Tisch, a great supporter and friend of the Museum. His steadfast commitment to education and the children of New York is demonstrated in his and the Tisch family's generous support for the Museum's educational mission and the Rose Center for Earth and Space. We extend heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Billie and the entire Tisch family. Lewis W. Bernard, Chairman Ellen V. Futter, President
TISCH--Laurence A. The Shul of New York mourns the passing of our friend, Laurence Tisch. His exemplary generosity gave our fledging synagogue its very first Torah. His life was an embodiment of the highest values of Jewish Tradition. For generations to come, the human community will continue to be enriched by his kindness and righteousness. His memory is indeed a blessing. Our condolences to his entire loving family. Rabbi Burt Aaron Siegel, and the entire community of The Shul of New York
TISCH--Laurence A. It is with deep sadness that we mark the passing of Larry Tisch, father of our great friend Danny Tisch. We offer our condolences to Danny and his wife Bonnie, their sons David, Michael and Alan, to Danny's mother Billie and to the entire Tisch Family. Larry Tisch was a special man and it has been our profound honor to know him. Heather, Michael, Gabriel and Irene
TISCH--Laurence A. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Billie, Jimmy and Merryl, Andy and Ann, Danny and Bonnie, Tommy and Alice, Bob and Joan, and the entire Tisch family. The world has lost one of its brightest shining stars, but is a much better place for his having passed this way. His life was a magnificent journey. Patricia, Alan, Adam and Josh Abramson
TISCH--Laurence A. Tel Aviv University deeply mourns the passing of Laurence A. Tisch, member of the Board of Governors and Doctor Philosophiae Honoris Causa of the University. A great leader, a great friend. Michael H. Steinhardt, Chairman, Board of Governors Professor Itamar Rabinovich, President
TISCH--Laurence A. The trustees and staff of the New York City Police Foundation send our heartfelt condolences to our dedicated Board member, Andrew, on the passing of his father, Laurence Tisch. Our thoughts are with the entire Tisch family. George D. Benjamin, Chairman Pamela D. Delaney, President
TISCH--Laurence. A remarkable man with a strong sense of community and family. His success and achievements are shared by many. Our thoughts are with Billie and family. Louise Sunshine & Martin Begun
TISCH--Laurence A. I mourn the loss of a great friend. Condolences to Billie, Andy and Ann, Danny and Bonnie, Jimmy and Merryl, Tommy and Alice, Bob and Joan and the entire family. Muriel Myerson
TISCH--Laurence A. Laurence Tisch was a gentleman and a leader in our community whom I have admired and respected all my life. My sincere condolences to his entire family. George S. Kaufman
TISCH--Laurence. We join with all who were touched by his good deeds to mourn the passing of Larry Tisch. Condolences to the entire Tisch family. Leon and Marsha Wagner
TISCH--Laurence A. The JCC of Canarsie extends our condolences to James and Merryl on the passing of your dear father.
 TISCH--Laurence A. Lar, thank you for making me a better person. XOX, Bonnie Kozek 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (88%); LAYOFFS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (71%); YOM KIPPUR (68%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (68%); PHILANTHROPY (68%); SCIENCE NEWS (67%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (67%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (65%); GOVERNORS (51%) 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR TECHNION-ISRAEL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%)

PERSON:  TISCH, LAURENCE A. 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



449 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Fall as Dollar Weakens; Foreign Investment Is Off

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks fell for a fourth trading day yesterday as the dollar sank to a record low against the euro, raising concern that foreign investors will shun United States assets. Concerns about a surge in oil prices also weighed on shares.
 Financial stocks led the drop on a federal investigation of Wall Street firms for trades that allowed Freddie Mac to break accounting rules. Video game makers slumped on disappointing October sales. 
 The dollar fell to a record low against the euro in New York trading after the Treasury Department released statistics for September showing the lowest net foreign purchases of United States securities in five years.
 "If the dollar continues to plunge, it can set off a chain of events that causes equities to sell off dramatically," said Keith Keenan, head of trading at Wall Street Access, which trades for 60 mutual funds and hedge funds in New York. "The dollar's decline has been gaining momentum and it's become the story of the day."
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 9.48 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1.034.15. Financial stocks accounted for a quarter of the slide. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 86.67 points, or 0.9 percent, to 9,624.16. The Nasdaq composite index shed 27.86 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,881.75. The S.&P. 500 and Dow had their longest losing streaks in almost eight months. 
 More than seven stocks fell for every five that rose on the New York Stock Exchange. Some 1.31 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 2.4 percent less than its three-month daily average.
 Foreigners bought a net $4.19 billion of United States stocks and bonds in September, down from $49.9 billion in August and the smallest since $1.17 billion in September 1998, according to Treasury Department statistics.
 As fewer international investors buy American assets, the dollar declines, making it even less attractive for them to own United States shares.
 Citigroup Inc. shed 74 cents, to $45.56, and Morgan Stanley lost $1.21, to $53.82. Freddie Mac dropped $1.12, to $53.28. In September, an independent counsel identified the firms being investigated in the Freddie Mac case as Citigroup and Morgan Stanley.
 "We are looking at the role of the counterparties in the relevant transactions," said Corinne Russell, a spokeswoman for the regulator, the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight in Washington. Ms. Russell declined to name the companies.
 Electronic Arts, the largest United States video game maker, lost $2.53, to $45.92. Activision Inc., the second-biggest publisher of video games, slid 75 cents, to $14.56. Take-Two Interactive Software Inc., which makes the "Grand Theft Auto" video game, dropped $2.63, to $33.47.
 An analyst for U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray, Anthony N. Gikas, said sales of video game software fell 14.7 percent in October. He cited data from the NPD Group, which tracks sales of software and computers.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Increase
(By Bloomberg News)
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose yesterday, sending its yield to a six-week low, after a government report showed inflation remains subdued.
 "There seems to be some shedding of the reflation theme in the markets in general," said Paul Yablon, head of government bond trading at RBS Greenwich Capital Markets in Connecticut.
 By late in the day, the 10-year note gained 13/32 to 100 28/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.14 percent from 4.19 percent on Monday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.928
High Rate: 0.920
Coupon Yield: 0.942
Low Rate: 0.900
Median Rate: 0.915
Total applied for: $44,382,974
Accepted: $21,635,464
Noncompetitive: $31,894

The four-week bills mature Dec. 12.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Treasury Yield Curve"Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. Graph compares yields from yesterday and one month ago. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); EURO (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (76%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (76%); STATISTICS (75%); ACCOUNTING (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (85%); TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (80%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (74%); ACTIVISION BLIZZARD INC (60%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (60%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%); TTWO (NASDAQ) (80%); ATVI (NASDAQ) (60%); AIY (FRA) (60%); PJC (NYSE) (60%); MS (NYSE) (58%); EA (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (80%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (74%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (74%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (74%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (60%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (60%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



450 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Prices Steady After Four-MonthClimb 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The Consumer Price Index held steady in October after rising for four months, as Americans paid less for gasoline and new cars, the Labor Department said yesterday.
 The index, the main measure of the cost of living, was unchanged after gains of 0.3 percent in September and August. Excluding volatile food and energy costs, the core index rose 0.2 percent as costs rose for public transportation, tuition and medical care. 
 Core prices are rising at a 1.3 percent annual rate so far this year, and the president of the San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank, Robert Parry, said yesterday that policy makers were not worried yet that economic growth would contribute to faster price increases. Factories are running at less than three-quarters of capacity and there were 2.8 million more people unemployed last month than in March 2001, when the United States slipped into an eight-month recession.
 "Given that slack, as well as the low level of inflation, I think there's still room for some pretty strong growth before the risk of inflationary pressures becomes a primary concern," Mr. Parry said in a speech to the Tucson Chamber of Commerce.
 Carmakers are stepping up discounts this month to recover from a slump in sales in October. Economists had expected a 0.1 percent increase in the Consumer Price Index. Core prices were also forecast to rise 0.1 percent, after a 0.1 percent increase in September.
 Energy prices, which account for about a 14th of the index, fell 3.9 percent in October after rising 3 percent a month earlier. Gasoline prices fell 6.8 percent, the biggest decline since May. Electricity costs decreased 1 percent, the largest since February 1998.
 The drop in gasoline prices has come as motorists' demand slowed after the summer travel season and refiners scaled up production, helping build up below-normal fuel supplies, according to industry reports.
 The cost of all goods including cars, apparel and food fell 0.6 percent last month and is 0.5 higher in the last year. New car prices, which fell 0.3 percent last month after falling 0.4 percent in September, are down 2.2 percent in the last 12 months. Computer prices are 20.3 percent lower than they were in October 2002.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Consumer Prices" Graph tracks percent change, month to month, from November 2002 to October 2003. U.S. and Major Metropolitan AreasNot seasonally adjusted Percent change from previous: U.S.MONTH: -0.1YEAR: +2.0 New YorkMONTH: +0.2YEAR: +3.3 Los AngelesMONTH: -0.2YEAR: +2.2 ChicagoMONTH: -0.2YEAR: +1.6 Boston* (Sept.)MONTH: +1.9YEAR: +3.9 Dallas* (Sept.)MONTH: +0.3YEAR: +2.2 Detroit*MONTH: -0.2YEAR: +1.6 Houston*MONTH: +1.2YEAR: +2.2 Philadelphia*MONTH: -0.4YEAR: +2.4 San Francisco*MONTH: Unch.YEAR: +1.0 Washington* (Sept.)MONTH: +0.3YEAR: +2.8 *Calculated bimonthly. Figures are for October, except as noted. (Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (93%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); INFLATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (71%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (71%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



451 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
The Life of the Party: Two Centuries of Democrats

BYLINE:  By RICHARD BROOKHISER; Richard Brookhiser is a senior editor of National Review.

 BODY:
PARTY OF THE PEOPLE
A History of the Democrats
By Jules Witcover
826 pages. Random House. $35.
 With the exception of the British Tories, the Democrats are the oldest political party in the world, in existence for more than 200 years. Jules Witcover, columnist for The Baltimore Sun, has been covering politics for about a quarter of that time. In "Party of the People" he surveys the Democratic story, from the days of Thomas Jefferson and James Madison to the second gulf war. 
 During its long life the Democratic Party has changed its name. Confusingly for us, Jefferson and Madison called themselves Republicans, to distinguish themselves from the monarchical tendencies they saw in the Washington administration. The founders used "democrats" almost as a cuss word, savoring of radicalism and anarchy; it was not until Andrew Jackson that Jefferson's heirs adopted the label. 
The party has outlived numerous rivals: in the 19th century the Federalists of Alexander Hamilton and John Adams, and the Whigs of Henry Clay and Daniel Webster, became extinct; the Populists hijacked the Democratic Party, then vanished. In the 20th century die-hard Southerners bolted, first under Strom Thurmond, then under George Wallace; so did hard leftists under Henry Wallace. In presidential contests the Democrats have carried as many as 46 states and as few as 1. Through all these vicissitudes, Mr. Witcover writes, the party has pursued a "commitment to social and economic justice that marked its earliest days."
This is a big subject, and "Party of the People" covers it unevenly. At the start Mr. Witcover's survey of the decades before the Civil War is slight and biased, presenting all non-Democrats as mere agents of the rich. (How the Virginia planters Jefferson and Madison turned the illegitimate immigrant Hamilton into an aristocrat is one of the great spin operations of American political history.) 
At the end Mr. Witcover's account of the Clinton years is remarkably evenhanded, sure to displease both Ann Coulter and Joe Conason, but there is little profit in repeating what no adult has forgotten. Mr. Witcover does best with the century from Appomattox to John F. Kennedy. This was the era of early modern politics; of newspapers not television; of bosses, machines and contested presidential conventions, whose end coincided with the beginning of Mr. Witcover's journalistic career.
He has combed the history books diligently, and he has retrieved many vivid quotations, which stand out from the marsh of his own prose. When Rutherford B. Hayes, a Republican, ran for president in 1876, boasting of his honesty after the corruption of the Grant administration, the publisher Joseph Pulitzer said: "Hayes has never stolen. Good God, has it come to this?" In 1894 Ben Tillman, a Democrat from South Carolina, called President Grover Cleveland, the leader of his own party, "an old bag of beef," adding "I am going to Washington with a pitchfork and prod him in his old fat ribs."
William Jennings Bryan, the Nebraska Democrat who won his party's presidential nomination in 1896 when he was only 36, was known as the Boy Orator of the Platte. Half a century later the Republican Thomas Dewey, another youthful presidential candidate, had an altogether different persona; he was known as "the Boy Orator of the Platitude." In 1956 yet another youngster, Senator John F. Kennedy, sought the vice presidential nomination. The House speaker, Sam Rayburn, was not impressed, calling him "that little pissant."
The weakness of Mr. Witcover's storytelling is a cartoonish focus on the moment that leaves the reader wondering how individuals and voting blocs change, for good or ill. He praises the Democrats for the practicality and idealism they have shown since Jefferson's day in appealing to recent immigrants. Yet when he comes to write of the scandals associated with Tammany Hall in New York, he accuses Boss Tweed, its leader, of relying on "the votes of easily manipulated immigrants." Daniel Patrick Moynihan would have known how to balance the outreach and the manipulation; Mr. Witcover simply shuffles the two ideas like cards. 
He praises Bryan's 1896 campaign for electrifying the common people of the rural South and West. Thirty years later, when Bryan and these same people oppose the presidential ambitions of Al Smith, the Roman Catholic New Yorker, they have become censorious rubes, supporting Prohibition as the "centerpiece of their war against sin." Mr. Witcover, who lives, with all of us, in the midst of a modern drug war, might look at the Prohibitionists with a shock of recognition and empathy.
He understands his Republican foils no better than he understands his Democratic heroes, and this failure drains his book of drama. His credo for the Democratic Party was foreshadowed by the young Bryan, when he urged it to choose the have-nots over the haves: "On one side stand the corporate interests of the nation, its moneyed institutions, its aggregations of wealth and capital, imperious, arrogant, compassionless. They demand special legislation, favors, privileges, immunities. . . . On the other side stands the unnumbered throng which gave a name to the Democratic party and for which it has assumed to speak. Work-worn and dust-begrimed, they make their mute appeal."
Bryan's opponent in 1896, William McKinley, made an equally fervent statement of the archetypal Republican position: "All attempt to array class against class, the classes against the masses, section against section, labor against capital, poor against rich, or interest against interest, is in the highest degree reprehensible." Over the years each major party has betrayed its ideals, even at the level of oratory, so often as to make these earnest statements almost embarrassing. Yet they are not mere boilerplate; they do capture fundamental truths about the populist and nationalist yin and yang of our politics. 
A book sensitive to the energies swirling about these two poles would be gripping. Lacking that sensitivity, "Party of the People" is a donkey and elephant show, with donkeys in the spotlight.
Political enthusiasts and toastmasters for Jefferson-Jackson Day dinners will be able to mine this book for useful material. Other readers would be better off buying a good general history of the United States.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jules Witcover (Photo by Marion Elizabeth Rodgers/Random House) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HISTORY (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); WRITERS (77%); LITERATURE (63%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%) BROOKHISER, RICHARD; WITCOVER, JULES 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

TITLE: PARTY OF THE PEOPLE: A HISTORY OF THE DEMOCRATS (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



452 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Size of Proposed Tax Breaks in Energy Bill Startles Experts 

BYLINE:  By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
Policy analysts across the political spectrum yesterday denounced the energy bill that Republicans in Congress hope to push to approval this week, saying it represented micromanagement of the economy and would open vast new opportunities for tax cheating.
 Many experts said they were taken aback by the size of the proposed breaks, estimated by Capitol Hill staff members at $25.7 billion over 10 years. That is more than three times the $8 billion in tax incentives that the Bush administration said last year in a letter to Congress that it wanted for energy producers. 
 The measure would give individuals tax breaks for buying energy-efficient appliances. But it specifies, for example, that refrigerator-freezers would have to be frost-free models with at least 16.5 cubic feet of space for food storage. A homeowner who installs a solar water heating system would receive a $1,000 tax credit, but not if the system heats a swimming pool. 
Energy companies would receive three-fourths of the incentives, or $17 billion, with provisions intended to encourage developing oil, gas, coal and nuclear power. Many of the credits would involve complex formulas and require installing specified equipment, rather than leaving industry free to use any equipment that achieved the same energy savings.
Terming the 1,700-page bill a "missed opportunity," Charli Coon, a senior policy analyst at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research group in Washington, said, "Congress should not be determining the energy winners and losers nor the appliance winners and losers."
"If people want to pay extra for an energy efficient appliance," Ms. Coon said, "they should," without tax credits' influencing their decisions.
Senator Pete V. Domenici, the New Mexico Republican who was a prime mover behind the bill, said its passage was critical to energy security. He called the bill a "package that will provide more predictability in our energy markets and reduce the price fluctuations and regulatory uncertainty that have confounded investments in recent years."
In most instances, utilities could simply declare their eligibility for breaks, and the Internal Revenue Service, which is battling a growing tide of corporate tax cheating, would have at most three years to identify scofflaws. No money for additional enforcement would be provided. 
The measure would also grant substantial relief from the corporate alternative minimum tax, which seeks to assure that all profitable companies pay taxes and which companies widely denounce as unfair. Congress has for years resisted taking similar steps on individuals' alternative minimum tax, which as middle-class taxpayers' incomes increase can deny them the standard deduction and personal exemptions for themselves and their children. 
Jerry Taylor, director of natural resources studies at the Cato Institute, a libertarian research organization in Washington, said the bill contradicted Republican free-market principles to promote various interests, notably farmers and agribusiness that would benefit from expanded tax subsides for biodiesel and corn-based ethanol fuel.
"There is a huge discrepancy between what Republicans say about the economy and actual Republican practices," Mr. Taylor said. "If a technology has merit, there is no need to subsidize it, and if a technology does not have merit, no amount of government subsidy is going to give it merit."
Terming the bill stupid, Robert McIntyre, director of Citizens for Tax Justice, a group with labor backing, questioned the logic of the legislation.
"Don't we believe in markets anymore?" Mr. McIntyre asked. "What are we doing with this bill? Are we cutting prices for energy so we use more of it? Do we need to cut taxes for oil companies because oilmen are inherently lethargic and can't work to pay taxes? No. This bill is just political payoffs to people who make contributions."
Public Citizen, Ralph Nader's consumer advocacy group in Washington, warned that the legislation could result in more Enron-style scandals because it would repeal the Public Utility Holding Company Act, which restricts ownership of utility assets to protect them from being drained by speculators. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US LIBERTARIAN PARTY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); AGRICULTURE (61%); BIOFUELS (60%) ENERGY AND POWER; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; TAX CREDITS; TAX EVASION 

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (54%)

PERSON: PETE DOMENICI (58%); DAVID S JOHNSON (50%) JOHNSON, DAVID CAY; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DOMENICI, PETE V (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



453 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Consensus on Energy Bill Arose One Project at a Time 

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 18 

 BODY:
Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, has raised pointed and repeated objections to the way Republicans met behind closed doors to assemble the wide-ranging energy measure that was easily approved by the House on Tuesday.
 Now Mr. Dorgan and some of his Democratic colleagues in the Senate are getting behind the bill, calling its provisions for energy efficiency and greater use of corn-based ethanol a step in the right direction. In Mr. Dorgan's case, the pot was also sweetened by a last-minute addition of loan guarantees for a coal-burning power plant that, under the legislation, is to "be located in the Upper Great Plains." 
 "I am pleased that it is in there, but that is not what tips the balance for me," said Mr. Dorgan of the power-plant provision that he and authors of the measure said was directed toward North Dakota.
Mr. Dorgan's endorsement illustrates both the sway of home-state projects and the difficulties that opponents of the legislation face in their uphill fight to derail it in the Senate after the solid House vote of 246 to 180 to approve the measure, with 46 Democrats joining 200 Republicans in support.
The bill is the first major energy legislation in a decade and touches on most facets of American power generation and consumption. It seeks to encourage greater domestic oil and gas production, promotes the construction of new coal and nuclear power plants, provides tax breaks for fuel efficiency and takes steps to encourage stability and greater investment in the electric grid.
Lawmakers and lobbying groups opposing the bill say that many members of the House and Senate have serious reservations about elements of the proposal but that those are often outweighed by the abundance of pet projects, subsidies and tax breaks spread throughout the measure, which is more than 1,000 pages long. The Congressional generosity has swollen the cost of the tax breaks to an estimated $25.7 billion, more than three times what the Bush administration initially advocated.
"Everybody is looking at it from the perspective of what is in it for them while this policy is moving us backwards," said Debbie Boger, a senior representative for the Sierra Club.
The extent of the federal largesse is no accident. The authors cast a wide net to round up votes for legislation that they knew would contain elements many lawmakers would find objectionable. So they made sure some major inducements were incorporated, particularly the initiative to double the demand for corn-based ethanol, a provision that most farm-state lawmakers will find it difficult to vote against.
"We have produced a bill that is tough to walk away from," said Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico and the lead Senate energy negotiator.
The cost is causing the administration to wince, but the White House is backing it, saying the cost is the price of getting a bill President Bush has clamored for since his first days in office. "Even though it went beyond the scope of what we proposed, we think the other assets and benefits make it a strong bill," said Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham. 
Despite objections by some leading Democrats, the House passed it with votes to spare as supporters said it would aid the economy, increase production of fossil fuels and expand use of wind, solar and geothermal energy. 
But Democrats on the energy committee attacked it, saying it was a regressive exercise in corporate welfare that let some polluters off the hook.
Approval by the House, where the Republican leadership exerts tight control, was always expected. But in the closely divided Senate, a few Democrats and Republicans were threatening to filibuster the measure over the provision protecting producers of the gasoline additive MTBE from product defect lawsuits that have been filed in New York, California, New Hampshire and elsewhere.
But whether the critics can muster the 40 votes needed to block the legislation is unclear. 
The filibuster would most likely need the support of the Senate Democratic leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota. But he is a main advocate of the plan to increase the use of ethanol and on Tuesday said he had not decided what to do.
Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, said that the measure was finding wide support among farm and energy advocates in his home state and that he would join Mr. Dorgan in backing it.
Analysts both in and out of Congress continued to sift through the measure to pinpoint more subsidies, tax breaks and benefits to certain industries. An analysis by the Senate Democratic staff disclosed several, including a series of loan guarantees for coal plants in Alaska, Louisiana, Minnesota and West Virginia, with no limit on potential federal liability. The bill also allows $12 million to be spent on centers at the University of Mississippi and the University of Oklahoma for research on ethanol.
Taxpayers for Common Sense identified a host of home-state projects, including four federally backed "greenbond" proposals that would help build tourism, shopping and entertainment centers in Syracuse; Shreveport, La.; Lakewood, Colo.; and Atlanta.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Byron L. Dorgan, left, and Kent Conrad, Democrats of North Dakota, planned to back an energy bill that has a project for their state. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); LOBBYING (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); BIOFUELS (89%); ETHANOL (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); TAX LAW (86%); TAX RELIEF (86%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (77%); ALCOHOLS (76%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%) ENERGY AND POWER; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; TAXATION; TAX DEDUCTIONS 

PERSON: BYRON DORGAN (93%); KENT CONRAD (59%); PETE DOMENICI (59%) HULSE, CARL; DORGAN, BYRON L (SEN); ABRAHAM, SPENCER (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



454 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: China's Message on Energy 

 BODY:
Pete Domenici, an architect of one of the most depressing legislative initiatives in recent Congressional history -- the energy bill approved by the House yesterday and headed for a Senate vote -- acknowledged recently that it could not withstand close inspection. "We know that as soon as you start reading the language, we're duck soup," he said, referring to the bill's embarrassingly long list of special favors for legislators and their contributors.
 What should really mortify Mr. Domenici and his Congressional co-conspirators, however, is a report by The Times's Keith Bradsher that the Chinese, hardly paragons of virtue on matters relating to energy and the environment, are about to impose fuel economy standards on new cars and S.U.V.'s that will be significantly stronger than those in the United States. Like President Bush and Congress, the Chinese are worried about their increasing reliance on foreign oil. China now imports one-third of its oil, compared with 55 percent for the United States. The difference is that the Chinese are ready to do something about it, whereas Congress is not; indeed, loopholes in the energy bill could make American cars less efficient than they are. And while the Chinese say their main concern is oil dependency, not global warming, more efficient cars should help on that score, too. 
 And where are America's leaders? Feathering nests, rather than imposing discipline on the nation's fuel use, or trying in any serious way to develop alternatives to fossil fuels. Each freshly turned page of this monstrous bill brings new evidence of Congressional cupidity: a taxpayer-financed "environmentally friendly" shopping mall for Syracuse, an office complex for Atlanta, a riverfront development for Shreveport, La. And every senator who wants a coal plant seems to get one. Norm Coleman got one for Minnesota a few weeks ago, and at the very last minute, Byron Dorgan got one for North Dakota to go with his ethanol subsidies for corn farmers.
With a price tag that could double the advertised cost of $30 billion, this energy bill is not only programmatically flawed but also fiscally irresponsible. The Chinese have provided yet another reason for killing it and starting over.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BIOFUELS (88%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (78%); CONSPIRACY (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (74%); BUDGETS (74%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); ALCOHOLS (69%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); ETHANOL (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (68%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (64%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (61%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%) AUTOMOBILES; EDITORIALS; FUEL EFFICIENCY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; ENERGY AND POWER 

PERSON: PETE DOMENICI (89%); BYRON DORGAN (58%); NORM COLEMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (51%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



455 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Resurgent Taliban Threatens Afghan Stability, U.S. Says 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN R. WEISMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 18 

 BODY:
Nearly two years after the Taliban's ouster from Kabul, a resurgence in its activities and cross-border operations have posed a new threat to eastern and southern Afghanistan and a new diplomatic challenge in American dealings with Pakistan, Bush administration officials said this week.
 The officials said that they were hopeful that American military operations would push the Taliban back, and that an increase in economic assistance would pull people away from the Taliban. But they said those efforts would take time. 
 Zalmay Khalilzad, recently confirmed as the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, said Tuesday that the Afghan government under President Hamid Karzai needed to provide "more services and more presence" in eastern and southern Afghanistan, where the Taliban's attacks are occurring. 
Speaking to reporters, Mr. Khalilzad said that when he goes to Kabul to take up his post next week, he will try to "accelerate the reconstruction of Afghanistan's security, economic and political sectors."
Other administration officials said that while Pakistan had increased its military and security presence in the Pakistani provinces bordering Afghanistan, much more was needed to prevent the Taliban from using Pakistani territory as a sanctuary and arms supply base.
One senior official said that while Pakistan had given "phenomenal cooperation" in arresting forces of Al Qaeda in its territory, its actions against the Taliban were far less satisfactory.
Also operating in the region is Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, a renegade militia commander who once received American aid in his effort to oust the Russians from Afghanistan in the 1980's but is now leading what he calls a holy war against Mr. Karzai and American forces.
Many in the Taliban and in Mr. Hekmatyar's militia have close ties with retired operatives of Pakistani intelligence and security forces, which helped install the Taliban in power in Kabul in the 1990's.
The Taliban's strategy, one official said, is to "sow doubt about Karzai's ability to govern" and to "play on cultural and tribal differences." The Taliban base of operations is in the Pashto-speaking parts of Afghanistan. Although Mr. Karzai is a member of the Pashtun ethnic group, the country's largest, his government is dominated by a small group from the Panjshir Valley in the north, where other groups like the Tajiks predominate.
Mr. Khalilzad said that in recent months Mr. Karzai had moved to correct an underrepresentation of Pashtuns in his ministries, particularly the Defense Ministry, but that more steps were necessary.
Administration officials said they expected that with the $1.7 billion in aid recently approved by Congress, the eastern and southern portions of Afghanistan would get roads and other projects to improve farming and get farm products to markets.
Without farm alternatives, Mr. Khalilzad and others said, the Pashto-speaking areas may continue the recent trend of growing more opium poppies for heroin. Opium cultivation has spread in the last year, various aid officials say.
A symbol of the elusiveness of the Taliban and Al Qaeda is the continuing failure to capture Osama bin Laden and others who used to have free run of Afghanistan. Last week Gen. John P. Abizaid, head of the United States Central Command, said in a briefing that combat operations against Al Qaeda and the Taliban "are every bit as much andevery bit as difficult as those that go on in Iraq."
The United States and its allies have 11,000 troops carrying out military operations against hostile forces in Afghanistan, and there are another 5,000 acting as peacekeepers under NATO control.
Recent attacks have occurred in Kandahar, the largest city in southeastern Afghanistan and a stronghold of the Taliban, as well as Paktia Province and other provinces in that region. Those attacks have killed United Nations personnel and forced the withdrawal of relief organizations from some areas.
In another sobering reminder of the grim security situation, a United Nations Security Council mission returned from Afghanistan last week and said the attacks were jeopardizing the entire process of installing a democratic government in Kabul, leading to elections next year.
Most of Afghanistan continues to be under the control of tribal and regional leaders engaged in extortion, corruption and violence. A senior American official said the United States was trying to avoid using the word warlord to describe these figures, "but that is what they are." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (92%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); TRENDS (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); TERRORISM (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%); APPROVALS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); ETHNIC GROUPS (61%); ETHNICITY (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); HEROIN (60%); OPIUM (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%) TALIBAN 

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (79%) WEISMAN, STEVEN R 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (97%); PAKISTAN (94%) AFGHANISTAN; PAKISTAN

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



456 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Moves to Limit Textile Imports From China 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 18 

 BODY:
The Bush administration moved on Tuesday to severely restrict the growth of a half-billion dollars' worth of Chinese textile imports and immediately found itself caught between battle cries from the industry for more protectionism and anxiety among global investors who fear it.
 Invoking special "safeguard" clauses in its trade agreements with China, the Commerce Department said it would begin discussions to impose new quotas that could sharply reduce China's rapidly growing exports of knit fabrics and a handful of other products. 
 In themselves, the actions affect only a sliver of China's exports to the United States. But textile companies and unions are putting heavy pressure on President Bush to expand the agenda to cover nearly all of the $10.3 billion in imports of Chinese clothing and fabric. 
"We have 12 months between now and when our elected officials go and face the people," said Auggie Tantillo, Washington coordinator for the American Manufacturing Trade Action Coalition. "If we are going to get relief, we're going to have to get it in the next 12 months."
Under pressure from lawmakers in both parties, and alarmed by the loss of manufacturing jobs from steel states like Pennsylvania to textile states like North Carolina -- both political battlegrounds -- administration officials have become increasingly strident in demanding that China play "by the rules."
But the administration has staunchly opposed Congressional proposals to impose sweeping new tariffs on Chinese imports, in part because they have brought lower prices to consumers and in part because trade restrictions have a chilling effect on investor confidence.
Retailing organizations immediately denounced the administration's decision, saying it would produce a spiral of new protectionism that would lead to higher prices of products ranging from bedroom furniture to television sets.
"The administration is balancing the desire to save several thousand manufacturing jobs against the interest of millions and millions of consumers to buy the products they want at prices they can afford," said J. Craig Shearman, a spokesman for the National Retail Federation.
 Investors were rattled as well. News of the textile decision helped send the dollar to a near-record low against the euro and down sharply against the Japanese yen.
 The administration did not contend that Chinese producers had brokenany rules. Rather, it invoked protective provisions that China agreed to as a condition for admission to the World Trade Organization in 2001. They allow the United States to limit the growth of Chinese textile imports to 7.5 percent a year if they are deemed "disruptive" to American producers. The categories of goods the administration is seeking to curb have been growing at rates that are well into the double digits.
 American textile companies say they have been forced to cut 316,000 jobs over the last three years and blame Chinese competition for a large part of that loss.
 China objected to the White House's plan on Wednesday, saying in a statement posted on the Web site of the Ministry of Commerce that it violated the rules of the W.T.O. 
 The decision on tariffs came as President Bush continued to wrestle with an equally explosive trade decision on whether to preserve another set of "safeguard" tariffs that protect American steel producers.
 The W.T.O. has ruled that the American tariffs violate international trade laws, and the European Union is threatening to impose $2.2 billion in retaliatory tariffs as early as next month.
 American steel producers have let it be known that they are willing to abandon the special tariffs as early as next fall, about six months earlier than they would have been required to do so. But European officials dismissed the idea, saying they would retaliate with tariffs on American exports unless the United States abandoned the special steel tariffs entirely.
 In steel as well as in textiles, President Bush has been willing to compromise his often-stated goal of promoting global free trade with the more immediate political goal of stemming the loss of manufacturing jobs. 
 "This decision demonstrates the Bush administration's commitment to our trade rules and America's workers," the commerce secretary, Donald L. Evans, said in a statement accompanying Tuesday's decision. 
 The White House's willingness to impose tariffs, however, contributed to a significant plunge in the value of the dollar against the euro and the yen. In New York, the euro settled at $1.1945, up from $1.1766 on Monday. The dollar traded at 108.04 yen, down from 108.95.
 Administration officials will now open talks with Chinese officials on how to sharply limit the growth of imports in three categories that totaled $497 million last year: knitted fabrics, like those used to make T-shirts; dressing gowns and robes; and brassieres.
But textile companies are pushing the administration to include a much broader array of imports in the discussions. They have been drumming up support for their cause from lawmakers in both parties and have bluntly threatened to mobilize voters in textile states to vote Democratic if Republicans fail to deliver for them.
 They are not alone. Furniture manufacturers have filed antidumping complaints against Chinese exporters of bedroom furniture. Other complaints are pending against Chinese manufacturers of television sets, handbags and handcarts.
 The Bush administration has been pressing China on several fronts for several months now, most particularly about letting its currency rise in value, a move that would make Chinese exports more expensive in the United States.
 But the administration has fought all proposals in Congress to impose sweeping new tariffs, and trade experts predict that it will continue to oppose them.
 Indeed, even as the Commerce Department threatened to start blocking Chinese textile imports it was also holding the first of several workshops in Newark and New York aimed at encouraging American companies to invest in China.
 Senator Ernest F. Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina and a longstanding supporter of protective barriers for textile companies and other industries, said the administration's action did not go far enough.
 "Without a comprehensive approach to limit imports of Chinese textiles and apparel into this country, this is just another Karl Rove campaign gimmick," Mr. Hollings said, referring to President Bush's chief political adviser. "It will last until the election and then it will be set aside by the W.T.O."
 Empowered by some of its vast force of low-wage workers, and a flood of investment from Western companies that seek to take advantage, Chinese exports to the United States have increased at staggering rates in recent years.
 China is now the largest exporter to the United States of clothing and apparel, footwear and toys. The United States' trade deficit with China reached $103 billion in 2002 and is on track to reach the same total this year, making its trade imbalance with China larger than that with either Japan or the European Union.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 20, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about the Bush administration's move to restrict the growth of China's textile exports to the United States referred imprecisely to the trade deficit with China this year. It is on track to exceed last year's level of $103 billion, not to match it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A tailor in Beijing. The Bush administration is caught between conflicting interests on Chinese imports. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. C2) Chart: "Clothing Concern"The government has proposed tariffs on some of the textiles and clothing imported from China. Over all, those types of goods made up more than 8 percent of all goods imported from China in 2002. IMPORTED GOODS FROM CHINA, 2002, IN BILLIONS Computers, accessories and semiconductors: $15.5Toys and sporting goods: $14.8Textiles and clothing*: $10.3Footwear: $7.4Furniture: $6.3Radios and stereo equipment: $4.4 IMPORTED TEXTILES AND CLOTHING* Graph tracks imported textiles and clothing, measured in billions, from 1998 to 2002. *Includes cotton, wool, silk and synthetic cloth, fabrics and thread; finished textiles, and clothing made out of cotton, wool and other textiles. (Source by Census Bureau)(pg. C2) Graph tracks euro to the dollar, since June 2002. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). (pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTILES (94%); IMPORT TRADE (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); FABRIC MILLS (89%); TEXTILE MFG (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); RETAILERS (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); FABRICS (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); EURO (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (57%) TEXTILES; LABOR; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; STEEL AND IRON; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; CURRENCY; UNEMPLOYMENT; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); IMPORT QUOTAS; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%) CHINA; EUROPE; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



457 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Frustrated, U.S. Will Seek Bilateral Trade Pacts 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 18 

 BODY:
United States officials, frustrated with the prospect of a watered-down hemispheric trade agreement, said Tuesday they would focus on bilateral agreements with several compliant nations in the Andes, Central America and the Caribbean as a way to get past differences with South America's largest economy, Brazil.
 In announcing the decision to seek less-ambitious trade agreements with a group of relatively small economies, Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, tacitly confirmed the glacial pace of wider talks here this week aimed at creating a Free Trade Area of the Americas among 34 countries in the Western Hemisphere. 
 The United States and Brazil, which are jointly leading the negotiations, reached an understanding that would remove sensitive issues like agricultural subsidies and intellectual property protection from the talks in an effort to avert the type of collapse that took place two months ago at a World Trade Organization meeting in Cancun, Mexico.
 This strategy could ultimately allow talks to advance on creating a hemispheric trade agreement by early 2005. But because the United States and Brazil remain far apart in several crucial areas, the approach has also generated concern that the talks could result in a watered-down agreement described by some negotiators as an a la carte approach. 
 While a group of about a dozen countries, led by Canada and Chile, have reacted coolly to the joint proposal by the United States and Brazil, effectively stalling resolution of the matter until top-level negotiators convene here later this week, several nations have seized on the opportunity to negotiate parallel agreements with the United States.
 Mr. Zoellick said he had notified Congress on Tuesday of the Bush administration's intent to begin trade talks with several countries in the Andean region: Colombia, Peru, Ecuador and Bolivia. 
 The four countries took $7 billion in exports from the United States last year and accounted for about $9.8 billion in imports. 
 Franklin J. Vargo, vice president for international economic affairs at the National Association of Manufacturers and one of hundreds of business executives circulating at the talks, said he was encouraged by the new strategy.
 "My hope is that Brazil will recognize they're being isolated," Mr. Vargo said. 
 Mr. Zoellick, the trade representative, said he was also planning to start talks to bring the Dominican Republic into the Central American Free Trade Agreement and a separate effort to reach an agreement with Panama. Despite concern that the Central American agreement could encounter resistance in Congress, especially with regard to efforts to reduce subsidies for sugar producers, negotiators here said it was important to move forward in some areas.
 Miguel E. Lacayo, El Salvador's economy minister, said in an interview that he lamented the possibility of producing a weaker overall agreement, but added that this may be necessary to achieve wider integration in the future. "Even if it takes another decade to achieve, we'll still get to that goal," Mr. Lacayo said. "In the meantime we're pursuing the options that are available to us." 
 Still, representatives from companies that are hoping for a comprehensive agreement spanning the hemisphere said they were not impressed by the emphasis on bilateral agreements. Several executives said it was especially worrisome that negotiators were shunning thorny issues like patent protection. 
 "This approach is making a lot of people anxious because it goes against the very spirit and objectives of a more profound trade arrangement," said Shanker Singham, chairman of the international trade group at Steel Hector & Davis, a large Miami law firm. 
 Brazilian negotiators reacted calmly to Mr. Zoellick's announcement of talks with several countries, describing the strategy as a normal negotiating tactic. Antonio Simoes, an adviser to Brazil's foreign minister, Celso Amorim, said Brazil was also hoping to negotiate bilateral trade agreements with nations including Peru and Venezuela through the Mercosur trade group. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (95%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TRENDS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (61%); SUGAR MFG (61%); AGRICULTURE (54%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (54%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (54%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TREATIES; FREE TRADE AGREEMENT OF THE AMERICAS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (89%) ROMERO, SIMON; ZOELLICK, ROBERT B (TRADE REPR); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANDES (88%) UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (96%); CENTRAL AMERICA (94%); PERU (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); ECUADOR (92%); BOLIVIA (91%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (87%); PANAMA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); MEXICO (79%); CHILE (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%) LATIN AMERICA; BRAZIL; COLOMBIA; PERU; ECUADOR; BOLIVIA

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



458 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1623 words

HEADLINE: AT LUNCH WITH: Egi Maccioni; 
Behind The Family, Molto Mama

BYLINE:  By ALEX WITCHEL

 BODY:
IT may look like an apartment in a Midtown high-rise, but in the kitchen, where Egi Maccioni cuts butter by the slab and measures salt in the palm of her hand, it feels like a Tuscan farmhouse. It sounds like one, too, as Mrs. Maccioni, married almost 40 years, beats her steady path from sink to stove to table, all the while telling the stories her family knows by heart. The fact that the daddy in this household is Sirio Maccioni, the debonair owner of Le Cirque 2000, just makes them more fun.
 "When I went to have Marco," Mrs. Maccioni recalled, speaking of her second son, "Sirio took me. But then the pains went away. I call him to come and get me, he was at the Colony then, but he say, 'I cannot, the restaurant is full.' So he send a poor young waiter who say, 'What do I do, Mrs. Maccioni?' We come home, I put my key in the keyhole and say, 'Oh! Don't go away, let's go back.' " 
 Her husband arrived at the hospital the next morning. She shrugged. "He have to sleep," she said, drying her hands. "You have to understand with his type of work, it take so much energy. But for Sirio, it's his way to be alive. I won't see him stay home, it's no good for him. That's the reason so many people in this business split. There's not this understanding what is needed."
In the field of understanding, Mrs. Maccioni, 67, earned her Ph.D. long ago. And her culinary expertise has not only kept her husband and three sons happily fed for the last four decades, but many New Yorkers as well: when Le Cirque opened in 1974, she would make the ravioli in her own kitchen each morning to be served in the restaurant at night. Her father's biscotti recipe is still in the petit four selection there, and in 1996 when her sons, Mario, Marco and Mauro, opened the more casual Osteria del Circo, many of the recipes were -- and still are -- hers. 
Now, everyone can learn her secrets in "The Maccioni Family Cookbook," which she wrote with Peter Kaminsky (Stewart, Tabori & Chang). Along with the Tuscan recipes she has prepared for a lifetime are reminiscences from her family. Marco Maccioni writes: "Mom learned a lot of her English by watching 'I Love Lucy.' Our life was a little like theirs: Ricky Ricardo was off to the nightclub (my dad at Le Cirque) while Mom (Lucy) ran the home."
Mrs. Maccioni smiled at the reference. She wore a red and white muumuu, paired with elegant gold jewelry. She was up and down from her seat in spite of having fractured her foot, which was fitted with a walking cast. She doesn't know how she hurt it and doesn't stop to think about it. She looks outward, always a mother, a grandmother, a wife. Her focus on her family -- at home or in the restaurants, what's the difference? -- is palpable, and as she moved back and forth in her kitchen, pulling a tray of ravioli from the refrigerator, answering the phone, speaking in English and Italian almost at once, it became clear that she doesn't just run the home, she is the home.
"I was always in the background at Le Cirque," she said, standing at the Viking stove, ladling her rice and bean soup into a bowl. "I don't think your role should be next to your husband when the customers come."
It must have been hard though, all those years when he worked constantly and she stayed home with the children. Did she ever feel left out?
She smiled and her blue eyes were warm. "My husband has to charm all the women," she said. "Every night, he come home with a different perfume and I say, 'What's this?' He say, 'They kiss me, they hold my hands.' I went over there and it was true." She sat down. "So, no, I never miss anything. I tell you the truth, I'm not a party person. I'm very happy between my pots and pans. It takes me less time to cook dinner than to get dressed and made up to go out." 
With her children long grown, her nights have changed, though she is still side by side with Marco and Mauro at Circo, greeting the customers. Then she often has dinner with her husband at Le Cirque. "He has a strategic table in the corner," she said. "From there he can see what's happening." 
From her strategic table, smack in the middle of her kitchen, she has had a hand in shaping every aspect of her family's success. It was she who first went to Las Vegas and recommended that her husband do business there. Since 1998, Mario, their eldest son, has operated Le Cirque and Circo in the Bellagio hotel, and last year opened Tre, another Italian restaurant, in a residential neighborhood. A Le Cirque also opened at the Camino Real hotel in Mexico City last year, which the other two sons oversee with their father when they're not with their mother at Circo in New York.
It is Mrs. Maccioni's ability to embrace the new that has eased the way for so many of the changes in her life. Born in Montecatini Terme to a baker with a weakness for gambling, she had to leave school at 14 to stay at home and care for her infant brother, while her mother worked to redeem her husband's debts. But Mrs. Maccioni was never angry about it. "It was his nature," she said, draining the ricotta- and spinach-stuffed ravioli. "He was a great person and the best baker in town. And with the economic possibility of my family, I never dream to go to college."
At 20, when she met her future husband, who was already working in New York, Mrs. Maccioni became a professional singer and toured with Casini, an Italian jazz band, for seven years, even playing Carnegie Hall. She and Mr. Maccioni married in 1964 and lived upstairs from Lutece.
"Naturally, as a bachelor, he was very glad to be invited by friends," she said. "As soon as we married, he put me behind the stove and repaid the invitations from all those years. He liked to have a lot of public relations, but we couldn't afford to take people to restaurants. So, the wife cooks good, the wife helps."
Mrs. Maccioni said she was never homesick for Italy. "I instantly like this town," she said. "If I had to choose between the two places, I would stay here. Maybe because my children grew up here." Back at the stove, she melted the butter in a pan, tossed the ravioli in it and sprinkled it with sea salt. She pulled a clean fork from the drain board and set a plateful down. "Enjoy," she said.
Neither Mrs. Maccioni nor her husband wanted their sons in the restaurant business. "They could come home 5 o'clock Friday, start again Monday, have better living," she said. "But they also breathe these places since they were little ones. In the summer, we went all over Europe to taste beautiful restaurants. Then they got used to those places. And Sirio put them on the telephone in the restaurant very early, when they were 7 or 8.
"One day we go to a social engagement and he left Mario in charge of the phone. He told him, 'The restaurant is sold out, so even if the pope calls, there is no table.' Mario was 10, maybe, and the wife of Governor Carey called, but he say, 'I'm sorry.' The next day she call Sirio and said, 'I was denied a table.' And Sirio said, 'Mario, what did you do?' And he said, 'You told me not even the pope, and he's only the governor!' " She laughed heartily, even now.
Did her husband find it funny? "No," she said, wiping her eyes. "He was very mad."
She made a pot of Illy espresso and craved a cigarette. "It's 16 years sinceI stop," she said. "Mauro had a checkup for sports at school and they call me and say he has leukemia. I go to church and say, 'Madonna, what can I do for you?' I give her the cigarettes. We went to another doctor right away and he said, 'This kid is fine. But I already promise I quit." 
Though she is devoted to her children, it can't always be easy to work with them. She smiled. "We are very open," she said easily. "We scream at each other and maybe people who are not used to Italian temper think we're killing each other, but it's not true. We have different ideas. They say, 'Mom you don't understand nothing!' But they take my advice for many things. Like in any relationship, one time you give up, one time you don't."
Both Marco, 36, and Mauro, 31, are single; Mario, 38, is married with three young children, whom Mrs. Maccioni was about to visit, leaving that night for Las Vegas. She adores her daughter-in-law, Lauren, and spoke at length about what a good mother she is. Though she's still no match for Mrs. Maccioni in the wifely devotion department.
"Sirio did not buy even socks for himself," she said. "I get a tuxedo from Saks, take it home, make the signs for the alteration. The only thing I refuse is the shoes. I have to return too many times. For our house in Tuscany, he say, 'Choose what you like.' From the first tile to the last chair I did. If he's not there to choose and it's not his taste, it's O.K. We are very different people, me and him. I like black, he likes red, but in a strange way we get along."
Mrs. Maccioni spends part of each summer in Tuscany, joined by her family. She showed a clipping from an Italian newspaper with pictures taken last August when Robert De Niro came to dinner. In each of them, Mrs. Maccioni wore her apron.
"I'm not a diva," she said. "You cannot cook and be dressed, you have to be yourself. I'm a home person, plain and rough. I don't like to make believe I am what I'm not." 
The coffee was finished and even though she was packed for her trip, she still had to see the doctor about her foot. A list of things to do sat by the phone.
"I'm an early riser,' she said. "So whether it's Saturday or Sunday that Sirio takes off, that's the most boring day for me. He sleep all morning. So, I do my recipe, I iron. I also mend socks, one of few who do that in New York, they tell me." She gathered up the dirty dishes as the phone rang. "For a woman in the house," she said, "there is always something to do."

GRAPHIC: Photos: MRS. CIRCO -- Egi Maccioni bakes at home in Midtown. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. F1); THAT'S MAMA? -- Egi Maccioni when she was a singer with Casini, an Italian jazz band. (pg. F5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (88%) Cooking and Cookbooks; Cooking and Cookbooks; Books and Literature

ORGANIZATION: Le Cirque 2000 (NYC Restaurant) 

PERSON: Alex Witchel; Sirio Maccioni; Egi Maccioni; Peter Kaminsky

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



459 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Shootings Stir Fears of a Backslide in East New York 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK; William K. Rashbaum contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
The balloons were an unusual touch.
 They were blue, and they floated yesterday above one of the two new makeshift memorials on a street in the East New York section of Brooklyn. 
 One of the markers mourned Michael Walker, 23, who lived two blocks away, Big Mike to some and Mikey to his girlfriend. It was candles in a Corona Extra case and a store-bought card written in cursive that read, "With Sympathy." 
The other one had the balloons, tied to an Olde English 800 malt liquor case full of candles, so that they floated just below the picture of the smiling 8-year-old boy in a football jersey. Rarely does anyone blow up balloons for a grown man shot to death in the streets, so the message was clear: It was a boy.
The death of one so young prompted public displays of grief and anger, but it also forced a reckoning upon a neighborhood that is still recovering from its history as one of the city's most violent places.
"We were coming back, and all of a sudden it seemed like somebody dropped a new accumulation of drugs, and we're back in the Wild West again," said Winchester Key, the president of the East New York Urban Youth Corps, a community development organization that rehabilitates buildings and operates a truancy program for the district attorney's office.
The police have made no arrests in the two killings on Monday afternoon. Yesterday, two officers stood on guard in front of the apartment building that was home to the 8-year-old boy, Daesean Hill, while other officers drove by repeatedly in a van, announcing the killings on a loudspeaker and asking for tips.
The neighborhood was already reeling from a gunfight three weeks ago, thought by the police to be the outgrowth of a drug deal gone awry. It ended in a chase that left a suspect dead and injured a police officer and a sergeant.
As if to underscore that these are distressing days in East New York, yet another body turned up in the neighborhood late Monday, this one on a rooftop of the Linden Houses development on Wortman Avenue. An investigator said yesterday that the victim was Sherwin Henry, 23, apparently shot while delivering some of the untaxed cigarettes he was known to buy from a reservation to sell in the city.
To people in the neighborhood, the spate of violence was a reminder of a murderous time a decade ago, when the local police precinct, the 75th, logged 129 homicides over 12 months. As of Sunday, there were 28 killings in the precinct this year, the most of any of the city's 76 precincts.
"It's gotten a little better, but now it's getting worse," said Michael Brown, 28. "A lot of people are getting killed, young boys."
In the language of statistics, 2003 has been a far more peaceful year than 1993 in East New York, and the police sought to emphasize that view.
"This was a tragic case, and our detectives will be relentless in their pursuit of the person or persons responsible," Deputy Commissioner Michael O'Looney said in a statement. "One homicide is one too many, but it is important to keep in mind that the murder rate in the 75th Precinct has plunged by nearly 75 percent in the last 10 years, while overall crime is down 62 percent, including another 5 percent drop this year."
The language of politics, though, noted the singular emotional toll of the killing of a grade-schooler.
"This is devastating," said Charles Barron, the local city councilman. "This is a neighborhood that was really trying to pull together and come back."
The shootings on Monday took place on a block of Hendrix Street south of Atlantic Avenue, where two-story apartment buildings with recently mowed lawns are marked with signs noting their participation in police programs or warnings that surveillance cameras are in use. There are a bodega and a day care center, and the trash bins are full of television parts.
Investigators yesterday were unsure whether the 23-year-old victim, Mr. Walker, was an intended target of the shooting, one police official said. Detectives believe that two groups of men exchanged more than a dozen shots across the street in a running gun battle. Investigators found spent shells from three different types of guns -- a .45-caliber, a .22-caliber and a .380-caliber -- on the street.
The police were investigating whether the gun battle was sparked by a dispute over drugs based on statements by neighborhood residents that drugs are sold in the area, but have no solid evidence pointing to any particular person or group, the official said.
Narcotics detectives were in the area yesterday, making drug arrests and questioning the people they arrested in an effort to develop information about the shooting, the official said.
Cars slowed or stopped to inspect the memorials, and Mr. Walker's aunt, Rosie Walker, 36, stopped by the little cardboard box erected in his honor. "I do think he was an innocent bystander," Ms. Walker said.
Halfway up the block, where different family members spoke near a memorial adorned with balloons, that question never even came up.
"Whatever they were shooting about, I'm sure it was replaceable," said Kimberly Hill, Daesean's mother. "They can't replace my son's life. He's gone." 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 16, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in some copies on Nov. 19 about the killing of an 8-year-old boy during a drug-related shootout in East New York, Brooklyn, misspelled his given name. He was Daesean Hill, not Dasean.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Precious Roach, left, Michael Walker's girlfriend, and Rosie Walker, his aunt, shared their grief yesterday. Walker was killed on Monday. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. B6); Charlene Ayala, 22, with a photograph of her nephew, 8-year-old Daesean Hill, who was killed by a bullet in East New York. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); SHOOTINGS (90%); HOMICIDE (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); CHILDREN (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); SCHOOL TRUANCY (65%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Children and Youth

PERSON: Michael Brick; Daesean Hill; Michael Walker

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



460 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 85 words

HEADLINE: 'I Really Appreciate Your Business,' It Said 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "More Consumers Reach Out to Touch the Screen" (front page, Nov. 17): 
 Has anyone thought about the people that these self-checkout machines will be displacing? Where will they go, and what jobs will be available to them? 
 With unemployment at a high level, the last thing we need is another machine to displace even more jobs.
Apart from the obvious job loss, I would always much rather have a human face to deal with than a nonthinking machine.

WENDY MILLER
San Rafael, Calif., Nov. 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (86%); DISMISSALS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Automation; Computers and the Internet; Consumer Behavior; Labor

PERSON: Wendy Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



461 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Deal by Wisconsin Oneidas May Clear Way for Casino 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The Oneida Indians of Wisconsin plan to announce today that they have acquired two large tracts in New York to set in motion a bid for a casino as part of a settlement of the tribe's longstanding land claims.
 The tribe bought about 250 acres in Verona, 30 miles east of Syracuse and a stone's throw from the Turning Stone Casino Resort, which is operated by the rival New York Oneidas. The Wisconsin Oneidas also bought 84 acres at the southern end of Sullivan County in the Catskills, where Gov. George E. Pataki and the state Legislature authorized the development of casinos for three yet-to-be-selected Indian tribes. 
 Despite government fanfare and interest from a half dozen tribes, the governor's efforts to promote Indian casinos to help local economies and state revenues have been hampered by legal challenges, intertribal disputes and politics.
The decision by the Wisconsin Oneidas is a challenge both to Ray Halbritter, the leader for life of the New York Oneidas, who has described his Wisconsin brethren as "greedy outsiders," and to Gov. George E. Pataki, who has yet to approve a Catskills casino deal.
Kathy Hughes, vice chairwoman of the Oneida Nation of Wisconsin, said, "The Oneidas have one of the oldest and largest outstanding land claims in New York, if not the U.S." She added, "We're hoping that with the purchase of this property we can move on to settling the land claims and looking for a casino site."
In 1985, the United States Supreme Court upheld a claim by the New York, Wisconsin and Canadian Oneidas on more than 250,000 acres east of Syracuse. The ruling held that the state had taken the land illegally, but efforts to settle the matter ever since have failed.
Governor Pataki and Mr. Halbritter announced a $500 million settlement in February 2002 that would have provided the New York Oneidas with a reservation of up to 35,000 acres and $225 million and the far larger Wisconsin Oneidas with $250 million but no land. (The Wisconsin Oneidas have 15,000 members and the New York Oneidas 900.) Not having been part of the negotiations, the Wisconsin and Canadian Oneidas balked and the federal government refused to provide half the financing. 
Ms. Hughes said the Wisconsin Oneidas were willing to trade their damage claim for the rights to a casino. She said they were also willing to meet the state's demands for Indian casinos: to pay the state 25 percent of the revenues from gambling and charge a tax equivalent to local, state and federal taxes on the liquor and cigarettes it sells to non-Indians. 
State Senator John J. Bonacic, a Republican who represents a Catskill district, and other proponents of gambling in the Catskills have complained that the governor has refused to approve casino deals with other tribes in a vain hope that he could lure Mr. Halbritter into settling the state's largest land claim by offering him a Catskill casino. 
"This raises the stakes for casinos in New York," said Mr. Bonacic. "The governor has allowed Halbritter to stall the whole process of bringing casinos to the Catskills because the Oneidas have the biggest land claim in the state. I hope it breaks the logjam."
Mark Emery, a spokesman for the Oneida Nation of New York, said Mr. Halbritter was traveling and not available for comment. He insisted that the Wisconsin Oneidas were not entitled to land rights in the Oneida homeland. Mr. Halbritter says he is the sole heir to the Oneida land claim in New York.
Mr. Halbritter and the New York Oneidas are in the midst of a $300 million expansion of their Turning Stone casino in Verona, the most prosperous of three Indian casinos in the state. According to a bond offering for the expansion project, the casino, the largest employer in the area, reported an $85 million profit on net revenue of $206.2 million in the 12 months ended June 30, 2002.
At least a half-dozen tribes, along with their well-connected developers, have crisscrossed Sullivan County since 1999, when Governor Pataki announced that he favored the development of Indian casinos in depressed resort areas. Since the Catskills are only 90 miles from New York City, developers salivated at the prospect of billion-dollar casinos that would rival Atlantic City.
The St. Regis Mohawks, the Stockbridge Munsee band of Mohicans, and the Cayuga Nation of New York have all identified sites in Sullivan County where they want to build casinos. The New York Senecas are dealing with David Flaum, a developer who controls two large sites in Sullivan County, and the New York Oneidas have reportedly been talking to the owner of the Concord, the Catskill resort near Monticello. Now the Wisconsin Oneidas have staked their claim in Sullivan County, buying an 84-acre parcel in Mamakating, between exits 112 and 113 on Route 17. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); GAMING (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); APPROVALS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LITIGATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); RESORTS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); DIVESTITURES (60%); APPEALS (50%) Gambling; Indians, American; Casinos; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Land Use Policies

ORGANIZATION: Oneida Indians

PERSON: Charles V Bagli; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%) UNITED STATES (98%) Wisconsin; New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



462 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Sees More Budget Cuts With Nearly $2 Billion Deficit 

BYLINE:  By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
New York's budget problems have eased slightly because of higher taxes and an improving Wall Street economy, but Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg warned yesterday that the city still faces a deficit of nearly $2 billion for the fiscal year that starts next July.
 Speaking hours before his office was expected to release its quarterly modification to this year's budget of roughly $44 billion, the mayor said that both tax revenues and expenses "are slightly ahead of projections." The budget for this year remains balanced, and the shortfall projected for the next fiscal year has decreased, but not enough to avoid further spending cuts, he said. 
 "We have a big problem going forward," Mr. Bloomberg said. "I think the numbers will show roughly, instead of $2 billion, it may be $1.8, $1.9 billion, but same order of magnitude."
Later in the day, Jordan Barowitz, a spokesman for Mr. Bloomberg, said the mayor's office would not be releasing details of the modification after all. They are expected to be released as early as today, Mr. Barowitz said.
In lean fiscal times, the modifications are a widely anticipated City Hall ritual, as they provide insight into how the administration expects to close gaps and plan for future problems. Last month, Mr. Bloomberg's budget director offered a clue about what was likely to be in this modification, when he circulated a memo asking department heads to find $300 million in spending cuts in this year's budget.
The memo suggested that most of the cuts should come from reductions in hiring and "a continued downsizing of the work force."
Yesterday, Mr. Bloomberg said that further cuts would be difficult without reducing services, but that he was determined not to raise taxes again.
He said he intended to try to reduce the property tax increase that was enacted last year, and noted that increases in the sales and personal income taxes are due to begin phasing out as early as next year.
"We still have this $2 billion deficit to close," the mayor said. "But taxes are coming down, not going up."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Spiffed-Up Fifth Avenue in Brooklyn -- In Bay Ridge, applause greeted the mayor's announcement of the completion of a two-year, $17 million overhaul of a one-and-a-half-mile stretch of Fifth Avenue yesterday -- ahead of schedule and on budget. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX INCREASES (78%); CITIES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); INCOME TAX (71%) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%) Mike Mcintire; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2003 



463 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Chandigarh Journal; 
Sleepy City Has High Hopes, Dreaming of High Tech

BYLINE:  By DAVID ROHDE 

DATELINE: CHANDIGARH, India 

 BODY:
Thirty years after a "green revolution" turned the plains around this small city into India's breadbasket, a cadre of ambitious government officials, pricey consultants and local high technology entrepreneurs is trying to accomplish something almost as ambitious -- transforming this sleepy farm state capital into the "technology hub of northern India."
 "Chandigarh," glossy brochures declare to prospective investors, "the city with brains." 
 Chandigarh was designed and built by the Swiss-born modernist Le Corbusier in the 1950's as a replacement for the former Punjab capital, Lahore, which had been absorbed into Pakistan after partition. Now a city of 900,000 people, it is the joint capital of India's two most prosperous farming states and one of half a dozen cities and states furiously competing for the call centers and software parks that American and Indian companies are opening across India. 
As tens of thousands of service jobs continue to flow to India from the United States and Europe, small cities like Chandigarh offer even lower labor costs than India's "first tier" technology hubs, places like Bangalore, Hyderabad, Bombay and Gurgaon, outside New Delhi. 
Manisha Grover, a Bangalore-based consultant hired by Chandigarh to aid its marketing efforts, said those cities were running short of skilled workers. "It's maxing out," she said. "The pace of finding people is definitely slowing down."
Officials from Bangalore disputed that claim, saying the city's talent pool remained vast. But businessmen here said that wages were far lower in smaller cities like Chandigarh, where a starting call center operator makes roughly 7,000 rupees, or $150, a month. A starting worker in a "first tier" would be paid as much as twice that, they said.
At the center of Chandigarh's effort is Vivek Atray, a wiry, smooth-talking 36-year-old electrical engineer, who is the city's new director of information technology. In terms reminiscent of the American Internet boom, he breathlessly predicts an explosion in jobs here. 
"We expect 5,000 new jobs in the next six months to one year," he said, adding that he expected five new call centers to open. On top of the three that started up in the last 18 months.
Mr. Atray acknowledged that only one of those five companies, Indian-owned Infosys, had committed to opening an office in Chandigarh. It will employ 600 people in its first year, he said, with plans to reach 2,400 workers within three years. 
When contacted, officials from two other companies that Mr. Atray said were on the verge of expanding to Chandigarh, Dell Computer and Convergys Corporation, said they had made no firm decisions yet. 
In the end, whether Chandigarh can persuade these companies to open call centers here may depend on young men and women like Varun Sood, a short, boyish 20-year-old college student. To a business owner, Chandigarh offers50,000 college students like him for possible employment, what Mr. Atray's brochures call a "ready availability of trained manpower." 
Dressed in jeans, a stylish green shirt and baseball cap on a recent evening, he said he was eager to make extra cash at what he sees as a hip and exciting job. Young, open-minded and curious about the outside world, he talks cheerfully about a task many Americans might find anesthetizing: working all night cold-calling people in the United States.
"It's good," said Mr. Sood, who adopts an American accent and persona over the phone and uses the name "Boris." (After his favorite tennis player, Boris Becker.) "You get to speak to a lot of people outside your country." 
He speaks English well, thanks to a strong local education system that includes a leading university, engineering college and medical school. 
His 28-year-old boss, Anuj Mahajan, represents another asset in Chandigarh: local Indian entrepreneurs flush with cash. After traveling to Britain, the United States and parts of India to study methods and scout for customers, Mr. Mahajan, the son of a local textile mill owner, used family money to open the Kalldesk call center in September 2002. 
A year or so later, he has quadrupled his work force to 80 people from 20, finished renovations on a modern, stylish office and is planning to expand to 200 workers. "It's all family owned," he said. "We borrowed a little, but we've paid them back."
An older business, IDS Infotech, represents the potential for broader growth. Partap Aggarwal, a software programmer who worked in Orange County, Calif., for seven years, opened the company in 1990. After struggling for years, it now has 1,150 employees, many of whom scan millions of pages of legal and medical documents on behalf of American law firms and drug companies.
For now, Chandigarh has only about 2,000 jobs in call centers and back offices, not enough to have a major effect on the local economy. Questions have also been raised about the quality of the work, which involves grueling hours and can be mind-numbing. The average call-center worker stays in the job for only four months, business owners said.
"No one takes it seriously as a career," said Kavita Deswal, 23, a law school graduate who was working as a call agent for several months while waiting for her law license to be approved.
But Mr. Atray remains optimistic. "We hadn't been known as a high technology center," he said. "With this knowledge revolution, it's been picking up."

GRAPHIC: Photos: About 9 p.m. Indian time, workers at Kalldesk, a call center at Chandigarh, try to persuade Americans with long-distance calling plans to switch. Kalldesk was formed just over a year ago and has thrived. (Photo by Pablo Bartholomew/Netphotograph, for The New York Times); "It's good," Varun Sood, left, a college student, says of his job at Kalldesk. "You get to speak to a lot of people outside your country." (Photo by Pramod Pushkarna for The New York Times) Map of India highlighting Chandigarh: Chandigarh hopes to be the "technology hub of northern India."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (90%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); CALL CENTERS (89%); ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); TELEMARKETING (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); JOB CREATION (67%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (61%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; TELEMARKETING; CUSTOMER RELATIONS; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR 

COMPANY: CONVERGYS CORP (60%); INFOSYS LTD (51%)

TICKER: CVG (NYSE) (60%); INFY (PAR) (51%); INFY (NYSE) (51%); INFY (NSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (60%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (60%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (60%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (60%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: ROHDE, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) NORTH INDIA (93%); CHANDIGARH, INDIA (91%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (88%); ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (58%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) CHANDIGARH (INDIA)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003 



464 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Study Warns of Lack of Scientists as Visa Applications Drop 

BYLINE:  By JAMES GLANZ 

 BODY:
The dependence on foreign-born scientists and engineers in the United States soared in the 1990's, raising questions about how the nation will sustain its technology-driven economy as competition for brainpower increases worldwide, the National Science Board said on Wednesday.
 The board, a federal advisory body established by Congress, said it also found a large drop in the number of successful visa applications from foreign scientists, suggesting that the United States no longer dominates the global marketplace for technical talent as it once did. 
 "As the jobs grew in the United States, we relied more heavily on students from abroad," said Dr. Joseph A. Miller Jr., senior vice president and chief technology officer at Corning and the chairman of the task force that produced the board's report on the findings. "All of this causes great concern, for us, for the future of our science and engineering work force." 
From 1990 to 2000, the board reported, the percentage of foreign-born workers in science and engineering with doctoral degrees in the United States leaped to 38 percent from 24 percent.
Compiled by the National Science Foundation, which the board oversees, the statistics are not yet available beyond 2000. But by analyzing figures provided by the Office of Immigration Statistics, the board found that from 2001 to 2002, the number of temporary worker visas issued for jobs in science and technology plummeted by 55 percent, to 74,000 from 166,000.
Since the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks, successful visa applications in all categories have fallen, said Stuart Patt, a spokesman for the consular affairs bureau of the State Department, to 6.5 million in the 2003 fiscal year from 10 million in the 2001 fiscal year. Heightened security fears and marketing efforts by other countries for international tourist dollars may have contributed to the overall drop, Mr. Patt said.
Many American scientists have complained that it has been more difficult for their foreign colleagues to come to the United States since Sept. 11. Mr. Patt confirmed that the State Department had placed foreign scientists and engineers under greater scrutiny. 
"We take a closer look at the technology-transfer issues involved in those applications -- the exchange of not only goods and services but also knowledge," Mr. Patt said. "That is one factor that affects the science and engineering applicants a little differently than others."
Mr. Patt said the falloff in worker visas over all had occurred because there were fewer applicants, not because substantially greater numbers have been rejected. Whatever the reason, said Dr. Diana S. Natalicio, president of the University of Texas at El Paso and vice chairwoman of the science board, the numbers show that the nation could soon face a shortage of talent in critical areas of science and technology.
The United States, Dr. Natalicio said, is not educating enough of its own students in those areas to satisfy the technology-hungry marketplace.
"If these trend lines continue, we're going to have an undersupply," Dr. Natalicio said. In part because of the international impact of Sept. 11, "the flexibility in the system has been greatly reduced."
Particularly worrisome is the low interest in scientific careers among one of the fastest-growing demographic sectors of the population, Hispanic Americans, Dr. Natalicio said. While American whites produce an average of 6.3 bachelor's degrees in science and engineering per 100 people 18 to 24, Hispanics produce 2.4, the report found.
Another fast-growing, but much smaller group, Asian and Pacific Islander Americans, is much more prolific in the sciences, producing 14.7 degrees per 100 people in the same age group.
The board recommended taking a variety of steps to reverse these trends, including improvements in equipment, teacher training and financing in science programs from kindergarten through undergraduate levels. 
"I think we can turn the situation around fairly quickly if we deal with some of the problems" that push students away from scientific careers, said Dr. George M. Langford, a board member who is a professor in the department of biological science at Dartmouth College.
Dr. Steven E. Koonin, a professor of theoretical physics who is provost of the California Institute of Technology, and who was not involved in the study, said that the combination of increasing worldwide competition for technical talent and the unpopularity of careers in science in the United States went a long way toward explaining the results.
Many other countries, Dr. Koonin said, "realize that science is the way you move society forward," and have labored to become "more attractive venues in which to do scientific and technical work."
Another factor, he said, is that science tends to be "populated by the children of immigrants and the lower economic classes, because it is still a meritocracy and you can succeed on your brains and hard work."
With increasing prosperity in America, he said, "the children of the higher socioeconomic strata are pursuing other careers, where you don't have to work as hard."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS -- Coming to America"The percentage of foreign-born workers in science and engineering occupations in the United States, by degree level. ALL COLLEGE DEGREES1990: 14%2000: 22 BACHELOR'S DEGREE1990: 112000: 17 MASTER'S DEGREE1990: 192000: 29 DOCTORATE1990: 242000: 38 Based on Census Bureau data. Excludes postsecondary teachers. (Source by National Science Foundation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (70%); TERRORISM (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); TOURISM (50%) SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: NATIONAL TECHNICAL SYSTEMS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE BOARD (84%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (82%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) NATIONAL SCIENCE BOARD 

TICKER: NTSC (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (92%); NAICS541380 TESTING LABORATORIES (92%); SIC8734 TESTING LABORATORIES (92%); SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: GLANZ, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: EL PASO, TX, USA (50%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003 



465 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: China Protests U.S. Limit on Textiles 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Nov. 19 

 BODY:
The Chinese government gave a temperate response on Wednesday to the Bush administration's decision to limit the growth of imports of certain Chinese fabrics and garments, with the Chinese contending that the move violated free trade principles.
 The Commerce Ministry in Beijing issued a statement expressing its regret and its opposition to the United States action, but stopped short of threatening retaliation against American exports to China or promising an appeal to the World Trade Organization. 
 The statement from the Commerce Ministry was critical of the Bush administration, but avoided threats. The administration's decision "runs against W.T.O. principles on free trade, transparency and nondiscrimination," Chong Quan, the ministry's spokesman, said in the statement. "As a W.T.O. member, China reserves the right to lodge lawsuits with relevant organizations of the W.T.O. to safeguard the interests of Chinese industries." 
Chinese ministries tend to issue statements quoting spokesmen when they want to play down an issue, while subjects of greater importance to Beijing merit statements quoting policy makers.
On Tuesday, a team of Chinese buyers of farm goods canceled a trip to Chicago, but it was not clear if this was related to the textile dispute or to an American denial of visas for some members of the group. Peter Thornton, the marketing manager for Asia at the American Soybean Association, said the Chinese government's letter canceling the trip was received by fax at the association's Beijing office more than six hours before the announcement of the import restrictions. The letter made no reference to the restrictions, citing only the visa problem. 
But Mr. Thornton added that the timing of the cancellation had nonetheless prompted speculation that more was involved.
A Commerce Department spokeswoman in Washington said that the United States had notified China of its plans before announcing them to the public, but did not give the precise timing of the notification.
The Commerce Department announced late Tuesday morning in Washington that it had granted a request by American textile manufacturers for limits on the growth rate in American imports of knit fabrics, bras and sleepwear from China. The United States invoked a so-called safeguard clause that allows countries facing a sharp increase in textile or apparel imports combined with job losses at home to place limits on these shipments.
The Commerce Ministry in Beijing contended that the American textile industry had not proved that its difficulties were caused by imports from China. The industry has been under pressure from lower-cost imports since the 1960's, and has lost hundreds of thousands of jobs, but it contends that the job losses have accelerated recently because of China's sales.
Peter Shay, the managing director of MMG Asia Ltd., a fashion consulting firm here, said that restrictions on imports from China would probably prompt American companies to import more from low-cost factories elsewhere. "Most likely, it'll mean a shift to other plants in Asia, but not necessarily a return to American makers," he said.
Under the safeguard clause, the United States could limit the increase in imports of these goods over the coming 12 months to 7.5 percent. But that would still leave China far ahead of where it was when it joined the World Trade Organization in November 2001.
Chinese textile and apparel exports began climbing sharply then, and an increase of 7.5 percent now would come on top of gains that occurred in 2002. Bra exports, for example, more than tripled in 2002 with China's admittance to the World Trade Organization and the removal of previous American restrictions; financial analysts had not expected them to grow more than another 15 percent in the coming year because factories are already at full capacity.
China has been going out of its way lately to reduce trade frictions with the United States, notably with the purchase last week of more than $1 billion of General Motors cars and auto parts. The textile and apparel exports at issue this week represent less than one-twentieth of China's exports in what is its third-largest category of shipments to the United States, by value.
Computers, computer accessories and semiconductors are the biggest category, while toys and sporting goods make up the second biggest.
Many of China's main textile and apparel manufacturers are listed on the stock exchange here in Hog Kong, and most of their factories are within a 100-mile radius of Hong Kong, in the densely populated Pearl River delta region of southern China. Shares of textile and apparel companies were down 2 to 6 percent by the close on Wednesday, but they had been even lower in morning trading and recovered somewhat in the afternoon.
Nicholas Tan, a textile industry analyst at UBS here, said that the American action would restrict the growth rate for only 4.7 percent of China's textile and apparel exports to the United States, and was a step by President Bush that investors should have been expecting. 
"It's really giving away a bone to get some good will," he said. "I would, too, if I were him." 
The Chinese dismay was a sign of Beijing's unhappiness that China's membership in the World Trade Organization has not been enough to head off trade restrictions, Mr. Tan said. Chinese officials had hoped that membership "would be a bed of roses, but it hasn't worked out that way," he added.
Industrialized nations have agreed to eliminate in 2005 their complex quotas and steep tariffs on textile and apparel imports from developing countries, where millions of workers are eager for jobs paying less than $2 a day. No country has more potential workers than China, where economists estimate that the number of unemployed people in rural areas exceeds the entire American labor force.
The prospect of competing with such a vast and inexpensive work force has alarmed other developing countries; many of them have higher wages and less-developed roads and communications, making it more costly for them to ship goods to affluent countries. But China's ability to produce fabrics and garments cheaply has especially alarmed workers and companies in American states like North Carolina, where the Congressional delegation has enthusiastically supported import restrictions.
The possibility that the American action could lead to more serious trade frictions, together with a report of dwindling foreign purchases of American securities, was enough to send the dollar down to a new low of 1.1979 to the euro in Asian trading. But the dollar began to recover in European trading after the Commerce Ministry issued its statement.
The dollar fell only slightly against the yen, to 108.03 yen. Traders suspected that the Japanese government had intervened in the market to support the dollar. Sadakazu Tanigaki, the foreign minister of Japan, declined to confirm this, but said that his government was prepared to respond to sharp movements in currency rates.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brassieres in a shop in Shenzhen. The United States has limited the growth of bra imports from China. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTILES (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FABRICS (89%); FABRIC MILLS (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (88%); TEXTILE MFG (87%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); LITIGATION (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); TEXTILE MILLS (71%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (70%); SLEEPWEAR & LOUNGEWEAR (70%) TEXTILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); AMERICAN SOYBEAN ASSOCIATION (54%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (97%); ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003 



466 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Suit Accuses Credit Counselor of Deception 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER BAYOT 

 BODY:
The Federal Trade Commission filed a complaint yesterday accusing AmeriDebt, a large service operating as a nonprofit credit counselor, of deceptive practices that masked high fees and connections to for-profit enterprises. 
 The lawsuit, filed in Federal District Court in Baltimore, was the F.T.C.'s first against a credit counselor with nonprofit status. The commission asserted that AmeriDebt had generated large profits by enrolling consumers in payment plans and collecting what it called "voluntary contributions." 
 "We're alleging that AmeriDebt misled consumers about who it is, what services it provides, and what it charges," Howard Beales, director of the F.T.C.'s Bureau of Consumer Protection, said at a news conference.
The agency is seeking refundsfor as many as 400,000 past and present AmeriDebt customers who it said paid the fees unknowingly or without proper notice of them. AmeriDebt has typically charged its customers hundreds of dollars upon enrollment, or about 3 percent of their outstanding debts, plus at least $20 a month. All in all, that could amount to damages in the tens of millions of dollars, a spokeswoman for the agency said. 
AmeriDebt, which has 90,000 customers, responded in a statement that it planned to "defend itself vigorously" and looked forward to the opportunity to show that its counseling and debt management plans had helped consumers avoid bankruptcy. 
The company said its payment plans allowed its customers to make single monthly payments for distribution to their creditors, often with negotiated lower interest rates and the forgiveness of late fees. 
"That's how they are able to pay off their debt in a much quicker fashion than they could otherwise," said Zynda Sellers, a lawyer for AmeriDebt. 
The company stopped accepting new clients in favor of focusing on its current customers. It has also ceased advertising and has vacated much of its office space.
In addition to the F.T.C.'s action yesterday, Texas and Minnesota announced that they were suing AmeriDebt. Illinois and Missouri filed suits earlier this year.
Last month, the F.T.C. issued a general consumer alert, warning that some credit counselors might be exploiting their nonprofit status to overcharge customers for debt consolidation plans. 
Mr. Beales said the F.T.C. believed that AmeriDebt had enrolled customers in debt consolidation plans and paid more than $40 million in fees to accounts-processing firms owned by Andris Pukke, a former officer of AmeriDebt and the husband of its founder, Pamela Shuster.
Mr. Pukke was named a defendant in the F.T.C. suit against AmeriDebt. "Frankly, that's where we think the money goes," Mr. Beales said.
Mr. Beales said the F.T.C. had reached a settlement with Ballenger Holdings, an accounts processor in Frederick, Md., that it said had ties to Mr. Pukke. Ballenger has agreed to cooperate in the suit, the F.T.C. said, and to repay $750,000 to AmeriDebt customers whose accounts it processed.
A spokesman for Ballenger said it had acquired a company once owned by Mr. Pukke earlier this year and that it no longer worked with him.
Mr. Pukke issued a statement yesterday saying that AmeriDebt had entrusted its accounts to his company "because it could service debt management programs better and more efficiently, helping to save administrative costs." A spokeswoman for Mr. Pukke said he would provide no further comment on the lawsuit or any connection to AmeriDebt. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER CREDIT COUNSELING (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); LAWYERS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%) CREDIT; SUITS AND LITIGATION; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER PROTECTION 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (94%) FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION; AMERIDEBT (CO) 

PERSON: BAYOT, JENNIFER 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (73%); FREDERICK, MD, USA (58%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (78%); MISSOURI, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%) TEXAS; MINNESOTA

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003 



467 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: This Crop of Broadway Shows Is Finding Dog Days in the Fall 

BYLINE:  By JESSE McKINLEY 

 BODY:
When "Oldest Living Confederate Widow Tells All" opened at the Longacre Theater on Monday night, it did so with all the pomp one expects from a big Broadway opening: the red carpet, the shouting paparazzi and, of course, a standing ovation for its star, Ellen Burstyn.
 On Tuesday, however, after less than 24 hours and some scorchingly bad reviews, producers pulled the plug on "Widow," making for the shortest Broadway run in seven years and an estimated loss of some $1.25 million. 
 And it was one of the lucky ones. 
All across Broadway, producers, landlords and investors are suffering through one of the bumpiest fall seasons in recent memory, a snake-bit period that has seen one show close in previews ("Bobbi Boland"), another close in rehearsal ("Harmony") and a Stephen Sondheim show ("Bounce") close out of town.
Several other big-name, big-budget efforts, including "Taboo," a $10 million musical produced by Rosie O'Donnell, which opened to less-than-rapturous reviews last week, will face uphill battles to survive, let alone earn back their investments. Still other Broadway productions have been battered by unpredictables like sick stars and dropouts. 
All of which means that an industry that has survived Sept. 11, a slump in tourism, a sluggish economy and last spring's musicians' strike is suddenly facing a far more pernicious enemy: a string of clunkers, money-losers and mediocrities. 
For their part, industry officials seem to place the blame squarely on those very people whose job it is to place the blame: critics.
"The reviews seem to have been tougher across the board," said Jed Bernstein, president of the League of American Theaters and Producers. "So far the rose petals have been handed out very sparingly, and that's made it very hard on everybody."
But beyond tepid reviews, many in the industry cite questionable producing decisions, a glut of offerings and some plain old bad luck. 
"This is just not a time that people are running out to the theater," said Richard Kornberg, a press agent with nearly 25 years on Broadway. "I think there was obviously an assumption that there would be a huge theatergoing audience going to a lot of shows. But in reality all people did was buy tickets to blockbusters."
The recent slump is not having a disastrous effect on ticket sales for Broadway as a whole. According to figures from the league, total attendance for the 2003-04 season is down less than 5 percent from this time last year, and the box-office gross is actually up slightly, a function of higher ticket prices and more shows. 
And blockbusters are, indeed, still selling: on Sunday, after "The Producers" announced that its original stars, Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick, were returning, it promptly took in $3.6 million. 
But many of the newer shows are struggling. "Six Dance Lessons in Six Weeks," which received awful reviews after opening on Oct. 29, was playing to a mere 31 percent last week, and a revival of "Wonderful Town," still in previews at the Al Hirschfeld, played to 46 percent. 
Even shows with good critical pedigrees have not been selling well. "Anna in the Tropics," the Pulitzer Prize winner by Nilo Cruz that opened on Sunday, was playing to just half-full houses on average at the Royale Theater last week, though it sold better this week. And a return engagement of John Leguizamo's "Sexaholix" drew only 39 percent to the cavernous Broadway Theater. 
While it is difficult to compare this season's travails to those of years past, what is certain is that tens of millions of dollars are on the line, both in big-budget shows like "Wicked" and in smaller productions like "Six Dance Lessons." 
Not everyone, of course, thinks the season's slow start is that serious -- or that unusual.
"We're all going to have a dud here and there, but that's Broadway," said Ronald S. Lee, the president of Group Sales Box Office, a ticket agency. "There's always shows that don't work. It's not the end of the world." 
Mr. Lee takes heart from the sales at two new musicals: "Wicked" and "The Boy From Oz," though each show has many millions to earn back. Two smaller shows, "Avenue Q" and "Golda's Balcony," are also drawing crowds. 
Still, the drumbeat of news coming off Broadway in the last two weeks has been almost uniformly bad. The first surprise came on Nov. 10, when producers of "Bobbi Boland," a comedy starring Farrah Fawcett in its first week of previews at the Cort Theater, announced they would be closing before opening, cutting their losses at a mere $2 million.
Then, three days later, the cast of "Harmony," a Broadway-bound musical written by Barry Manilow and Bruce Sussman, was stunned when the production unexpectedly shut down in its fifth week of rehearsal after its lead producer, Mark Schwartz, announced that he was at least $3 million short of capitalizing the show. Some $2.5 million was lost. 
Then, that night, "Taboo," in which Ms. O'Donnell is the sole investor, opened to a round of lukewarm reviews. The next day, it sold less than $60,000 in tickets. 
This week, the news -- at least for musical lovers -- got even worse, as the producer Roger Berlind confirmed that Mr. Sondheim's latest, "Bounce," written with John Weidman, would not come to New York this season after receiving lackluster reviews in Washington and Chicago.
Even subscription-based nonprofit theaters have not escaped. The Manhattan Theater Club, for example, spent $35 million to renovate the Biltmore Theater on West 48th Street only to watch as its debut production, Richard Greenberg's "Violet Hour," lost two female stars before opening and then received a critical lashing. 
At the Al Hirschfeld, meanwhile, producers of "Wonderful Town," a revival of the 1953 musical, have been dealing with a trickier problem: Donna Murphy's throat. Ms. Murphy, the show's big star, has missed 10 performances in the last two weeks with vocal problems and the flu, prompting the producers to consider recasting the role. Still, it is scheduled to open Sunday.
La grippe notwithstanding, Broadway veterans say that the major culprit in the season's sluggishness may be the sheer number of shows opening on Broadway this year. Between June -- when the season officially starts -- and the end of the year, 24 productions have been scheduled, a crush that producers feel makes it more difficult to compete for audiences and publicity. 
Some have also said that the season has suffered by not having a undeniable smash musical as a fall kickoff, like "Hairspray" last year.
"There's too much product," said Mr. Kornberg, press agent for "Hairspray." "And there's nothing out there that's really getting to get people to focus on theater."
Looming after the money-making Christmas season are winter months, when sales always dip. 
Still, for people like Mr. Lee the ticket agent, whose livelihood depends on the allure of Broadway, there is not yet cause for panic.
"I am the eternal optimist," Mr. Lee said. "I've been in this business for 44 years. If someone is going to fall on the opening of each show, they are not going to last." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (92%); MUSIC (90%); TICKET SALES (88%); HIJACKING (79%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%); TERRORISM (65%) THEATER; THEATER; THEATER; THEATER; THEATER; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STRIKES; REVIEWS; LABOR; FINANCES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MUSIC 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JESSE; SONDHEIM, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) ; NEW YORK CITY

TITLE: BOBBI BOLAND (PLAY); HARMONY (PLAY); BOUNCE (PLAY); OLDEST LIVING CONFEDERATE WIDOW TELLS ALL (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003 



468 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1480 words

HEADLINE: European Union Expansion Has Drug Makers Worried 

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 17 

 BODY:
As the European Union prepares for its biggest expansion, the Continent's leading pharmaceutical companies are lobbying intensively to ensure that the 10 relatively poor new member states -- from Malta to Lithuania -- do not become conduits for cheap prescription drugs to flood wealthier markets like France and Germany, industry officials said.
 The campaign is one of several being fought by the multibillion-dollar drug industry, which depicts itself as restricted by European price controls and challenged by a growing desire among European governments to switch from brand-name drugs to generic versions. The pressures, some industry figures say, make Europe far less profitable than the United States, the world's biggest pharmaceuticals market. 
 "What we have in Europe is an industry in relative decline because we increasingly depend on research and production being taken out of Europe," said Christophe de Callatay, a spokesman for the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations, a trade group in Brussels.
Over the last 12 years, he said, the European pharmaceuticals industry has forfeited its place as a world leader in sales as research and profit have moved to the United States. 
The retreat is ascribed to a variety of factors, including uneven protection of patents, lower prices and slow access to a European market worth some $110 billion a year. These questions are coming to the fore as the European Union prepares to expand from 15 countries to 25 countries in May with the addition of 8 countries from Eastern and Central Europe along with Cyprus and Malta in the Mediterranean.
But, above all, the sense of urgency stems from a gathering crisis among Western Europe's state health services as they provide health care to an aging population at a time when lower birth rates mean that there are ever fewer young people to finance welfare states through their taxes.
"You have a changing demographic," Daniel Vasella, the chief executive of Novartis, a leading Swiss pharmaceutical group, said recently. "With more elderly people, there is an exponential increase in health care costs. Governments are now being squeezed."
Big pharmaceutical companies like Novartis argue that prescription drugs account for a relatively small share of health care costs. But cutting the drugs bill, Mr. Vasella said in a telephone interview, "is the easiest approach to manage costs."
Inevitably, European pharmaceutical executives compare the European market unfavorably with that of the United States, where brand-name prescription drug prices are unregulated and research investment is high.
According to industry figures, the United States is responsible for 70 percent of the sales of new brand-name drugs compared with 18 percent in Europe and 4 percent in Japan.
At the same time, European companies that once spent almost three-quarters of their research budgets in Europe now spend less than 60 percent there, while spending in the United States has risen. Only last year, Novartis moved its research and development headquarters from Switzerland to Cambridge, Mass.
The pressures for lower spending have renewed demands in Europe for greater use of cheaper generic drugs, which, at present, account for about 9 percent by value of the European market, according to the European Generic Medicines Association, an industry group in Brussels. But that debate, too, has provoked conflict.
Next month, the European Parliament is set to vote on a new set of regulations governing the relationship between brand-name drugs and generic versions. "What we are trying to do is make the system better for everyone," said John Bowis, a spokesman on health for the British Conservative Party at the European Parliament.
The Parliament is to vote by Dec. 15 on a proposal to even out the duration of patents, which vary from 6 to 10 years in different European countries, and to offer further protection for research data so that brand-name drugs can be shielded from competition for up to 11 years. At the same time, generic drug manufacturers would be permitted to start clinical work on their versions of drugs two years before patents expire.
But generic drug makers argue that the proposal falls far short of the so-called Bolar system in the United States, Canada and India, which permit generic drugs to be marketed as soon as patents expire. Instead, said Greg Perry, the director general of the European Generic Medicines Association, the new rules mean that manufacturers of generic drugs must wait a year longer than they currently do before beginning the process of registration and authorization.
"It's an appalling proposal," Mr. Perry said. "What they are giving with one hand, which is one step forward, they are taking away with the other, which is two steps back."
"It stops the quick introduction of the generics when the patent expires," he said. Because, in part, generic copies can be introduced in the United States as soon as patents expire, he said, it has the highest use of generic drugs -- some 60 percent of the market -- even as brand-name drugs make huge profits before their patents expire.
In the European Union, by contrast, the use of generics varies from around 50 percent in Germany and Britain where price controls on brand-name drugs are at their least stringent to much smaller market shares of less than 10 percent in France, Italy or Spain, according to the European Generic Medicines Association.
In those countries where generics are not widely used, some governments are trying to changes the attitudes of physicians who prescribe only brand-name medications.
"The problem is cultural," said Antonio Addis, a Ministry of Health official in Rome. "In Italy, doctors tend to think in terms of brand names." And, said Jean-Francois Mattei, the French health minister, by switching to generic drugs "it is not a matter of reducing expenditure on health care; it is a matter of lowering costs in order to offer our people the best care and devote the savings to other health requirements."
But perhaps the biggest anomaly of all is that while the European Union is technically a single market without restrictions on cross-border trade, the big pharmaceutical companies negotiate separate prices with national health care providers, meaning, for instance, that the same brand-name drug in Greece costs far less than it does in France or Germany.
That has produced what is termed a parallel market where drugs sold to one country are then re-exported to another with higher prices similar to the cross-border prescription drug trade between Canada and the United States.
The European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations said this parallel market was currently worth some $5.5 billion a year. But what worries big pharmaceutical companies is the question of what will happen when the 10 new low-income countries join next year.
Currently, the new members spend far less on health care than the older members because their economies are smaller and because many of them rely on generic drugs for up to 70 percent of prescribed medication. According to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, for instance, people in Estonia spend an average $20 a year on medication compared with an average $435 in France. Over all, health care costs in Eastern Europe are around one-quarter of the current European Union average.
With their entry into the European Union, though, the new member states will join a market without restrictions and be able to use the parallel market to resell brand-name drugs purchased at government-mandated low prices into much richer Western markets where the controlled prices are set much higher.
That would undercut the big pharmaceutical companies in richer countries. Mr. Vasella, the chief executive of Novartis, said, "The expansion of the E.U. with the accession countries has the potential to create major disruptions in the market." 
Indeed, the new European regulations to be voted on next month, which may not come into force until 2005 or 2006, provide for safeguards to prevent selling on the parallel market.
That is not the only issue. The new member countries generally protect drug company patents for only six years -- not 10 or 11 as the new regulations would require -- and their health ministers have expressed anger at being left out of the current negotiations on new drug industry rules.
"The proposed amendments will influence significantly the fragile national health systems and the public health situation in our countries," the ministers from the 10 new member states complained in a statement issued in Milan last September. Those voices may begin to sound faint once the new countries formally join the union.
"By joining the European Union, they have to comply with the regulations," said Mr. Callatay, the spokesman for the brand-name drugs industry. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (92%); LOBBYING (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (86%); DRUG PRICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); BUDGETS (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%); AGING TRENDS (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (63%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (63%); AGING (63%) DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS 

COMPANY: NOVARTIS AG (85%); NOVARTIS GROUPE FRANCE SA (85%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%) EUROPEAN UNION 

TICKER: NVS (NYSE) (85%); NOVN (SWX) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (85%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (85%)

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); MALTA (92%); GERMANY (92%); LITHUANIA (90%); BELGIUM (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); CYPRUS (79%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) EUROPE; MALTA; LITHUANIA; FRANCE; GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003 



469 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Rise as G.E.'s Upbeat Outlook Chases Dollar Blues

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Stocks rose after four losing sessions yesterday as a promising forecast from General Electric lured investors back after concern that the slide in the dollar's exchange value would hurt United States investments.
 "There's a comfort in the same leadership stocks taking us higher again," said Brian Pears, head of equity trading at Victory Capital Management. "It's too soon to make broad generalizations, but for the moment the trend is intact." 
 Stocks have surged since mid-March, but some investors pulled back late last week and early this week, booking their gains amid worry in the market over the dollar's slump, notable rises in the commodity prices of crude oil and gold, and stock values running ahead of economic and corporate prospects. 
But traders said that selling stopped yesterday as the major indexes dipped below 50-day moving averages, indicating a view among technical market analysts that the upward trend is not yet exhausted.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 66.30 points, or 0.69 percent, at 9,690.46. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 8.29 points, or 0.8 percent, at 1,042.44. The technology-focused Nasdaq composite index closed up 17.90 points, or 0.95 percent, at 1,899.65.
Trading was moderate with 1.337 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange, down slightly from 1.354 billion on Tuesday. Trading on the Nasdaq was brisk, running well above the daily pace over the last month.
Advancing issues on the Big Board surpassed those declining by a margin around 3 to 2.
"The dollar concerns set the tone for the market today, which is very cautious," said Andrew Baker, senior Nasdaq trader at Wedbush Morgan. "A lot of economic data and earnings data has been positive, but a lot of it is priced in."
Earlier in the session, the dollar sank to an intraday low against the euro of $1.1977 after the Bush administration moved to impose quotas on Chinese textile imports. Later, the dollar rebounded somewhat, settling in New York at $1.1885, a modest improvement from $1.1945 on Tuesday. It traded at 109.30 yen, up from 108.04 yen. The dollar's slump drove gold briefly above the $400-an-ounce level yesterday for the first time since 1996. Gold settled in New York at $394.50. 
General Electric jumped $1.03, or 3.6 percent, to $29.47, leading the Dow industrials higher. G.E. said it expected only a modest profit increase next year but a return to double-digit growth in 2005. It plans to split off most of its life and mortgage insurance operations in an initial public offering next year that is expected to be one of the largest offerings in some time.
Hewlett-Packard, which reported improved earnings after the market closed yesterday, rose 69 cents in regular trading, to $22.34. After hours, it moved still higher.
Intuit, the developer of financial software, rose 18 cents, to $46.35. Intuit narrowed its loss in the fiscal first quarter as it diversified into small-business services.
Analog Devices, which makes chips for cellphones and other electronic devices, jumped $1.70, or 3.8 percent, to $46.59. It said quarterly net profit more than doubled on strong orders worldwide, something it also expects this quarter.
The SoundView Technology Group $2surged.16, or 16.3 percent, to $15.41. The discount brokerage firm Charles Schwab said it would buy SoundView, a specialized investment bank, for about $321 million, sending its own stock down 8 cents, to $11.34.
Network Appliance, which makes network storage equipment, was the biggest loser in the S.&P. 500, falling sharply a day after reporting quarterly results that disappointed investors. Its shares closed down $2.16, or 9.2 percent, at $21.27 on Nasdaq. 
In the bond market, Treasury prices ended five sessions of gains, dropping as impressive housing figures and an infusion of corporate debt paper induced selling. While markets are accustomed to strength in housing, even some optimists were taken aback by a surge in building permits and a jump in October housing starts to a nearly 18-year high.
Late in the day, the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was down 25/32, to 100 3/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.24 percent from 4.14 percent on Tuesday. The price of the 30-year bond fell more sharply, dropping 1 7/32, to 104 10/32. Its yield rose to 5.08 percent from 5 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); TRENDS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); METALS MARKETS (77%); GOLD MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); INSURANCE (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); EURO (61%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); TEXTILES (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); VICTORY CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); WEDBUSH MORGAN SECURITIES INC (53%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6091 NONDEPOSIT TRUST FACILITIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003 



470 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1658 words

HEADLINE: Basic Failures by Ohio Utility Set Off Blackout, Report Finds 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA and MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 19 

 BODY:
The largest blackout in North American history was set off by a series of human and computer failures at an Ohio power company, where workers could not act to halt an escalating crisis because they did not even know it existed, a panel of government and industry officials reported on Wednesday.
 The report says that, even some 20 minutes before the lights went out from Detroit to New York City on Aug. 14, the blackout could have been safely contained if not for the utility's malfunctioning computers and inadequately trained control room workers. 
 The report found that the utility, FirstEnergy, and the regional agency that was supposed to be overseeing it, the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, also failed to contact neighboring power companies as the system unraveled, a violation of one of the essential rules governing the operation of the nation's power grid. And the government officials who released the report charged that the worsening series of transmission line failures that drove the wider collapse of power were the result in part of a failure by FirstEnergy to do the most basic maintenance of the company's transmission lines -- namely the trimming of trees underneath and alongside the lines. 
At each turn on Aug. 14, the 124-page document says, human inaction made matters worse, until a system collapse struck with such force and speed that it surged from Ohio into Michigan, Ontario and New York in a matter of seconds.
"This blackout was largely preventable," said Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham, who headed the inquiry, along with Herbert Dhaliwal, the Canadian minister of natural resources. "A number of relatively small problems combined to create a very big one."
The blackout spread through eight states and vast parts of Ontario, disrupting the lives of millions of people and inflicting billions of dollars in economic losses.
Mr. Abraham and Mr. Dhaliwal, in releasing the most definitive official account of the calamity to date, repeatedly emphasized the need for an enforceable set of operating standards for the electrical grid, with violations punishable by monetary penalties, for power companies and the entities that supervise them, independent system operators.
"If the voluntary reliability standards had been complied with, we wouldn't have had a problem," Mr. Dhaliwal said. Describing the grid as a chain of connected systems, he said, "We have to make sure we don't have weak links in the chain that affect others."
The energy bill passed by the House on Monday would allow for an enforceable set of rules, to be drafted by an industry group, the North American Electric Reliability Council. (Mr. Abraham and Mr. Dhaliwal said they favored enforceable standards but their report today had no recommendations. Those will come later this year at the earliest, they said.) It would also give the council the power to audit the practices of power companies and system operators, which Michehl R. Gent, the group's president, said was more important than penalties. "I'm into performance, not fines," he said.
Mr. Gent said the blackout also showed that his group's rules needed to be more explicit about requiring that power companies and I.S.O.'s have sophisticated, comprehensive computer systems for monitoring their power lines and detecting problems. The Midwest I.S.O., a relatively new agency, has less effective systems than its counterparts in the Northeast.
Mr. Abraham repeatedly declined to answer questions about what penalty, if any, FirstEnergy might or should face, adding that it might be up to state regulators. But with the report putting the blame so squarely on FirstEnergy, others jumped in. Saying that "FirstEnergy needs to be held accountable," Representative Eliot L. Engel of New York said the company should pay reparations to power companies, so that they can, in turn, reimburse customers for their losses.
FirstEnergy insisted that much of the report was factually wrong or questionable, and said the panel had chosen to ignore underlying problems that many experts have pointed to, including the rise of long-distance transmission of electricity and instability in the system brought on by deregulation.
"If we don't deal with the systematic issues that are affecting the power grid, we're not going to make any headway here," Anthony J. Alexander, president of FirstEnergy, said in a telephone interview. "The system was not designed to do what it's being asked to do on a daily basis."
The Midwest I.S.O. -- one of a number of control agencies across the country charged with monitoring conditions on the grid and assisting with any crises -- released a statement saying that it was reviewing the report and was already changing some of its practices. It did not dispute any of the findings.
Much of the broad picture the report paints of Aug. 14 -- the malfunctioning computer systems, the lack of information, the sequence of failures -- has been known for months. But the details released today lay out previously unknown layers of dysfunction, presenting the hours leading up to the blackout as almost a comedy of errors among the people who were supposed to know and control what was happening to that section of the power grid.
FirstEnergy was hobbled by the failure of a computer program that was supposed to set off alarms in the company's main control room when power lines failed or were stressed beyond their limits. That, in turn, caused the computer system itself to fail, and then a backup system, as well. It meant that operators in the control room were getting delayed, incomplete information about the failures of transmission lines and power plants in their region.
The report says FirstEnergy's control room staff was left unaware in part because, for over an hour, the company's computer maintenance people failed to tell them. "That's not accurate," said Charles E. Jones, a senior vice president of FirstEnergy. In fact, he said, it was the control room that told the computer staff the systems were malfunctioning.
When the Midwest I.S.O. had trouble with its "state estimator," a computer tool for determining whether the grid was in trouble, a technician turned it off, tried to repair it, then forgot to turn it back on and went to lunch, the report says.
For most of the afternoon, the system operators' vital tool for monitoring trouble on the grid was useless, using flawed information to produce what amounted to only nonsense. The report says that was because a major power line owned by another utility, in another part of Ohio, had already failed, but that no one at the Midwest I.S.O. knew the line was down, and so no one adjusted the computer system accordingly.
The report also says that three major FirstEnergy transmission lines shut down because they sagged into trees -- not the one line officials had previously reported -- and that those failures helped vault the Ohio problems into a meltdown. Mr. Abraham said those failures were born of insufficient attention "to simple tree-trimming."
FirstEnergy officials insisted that they abided by all tree-trimming rules and that the lines sagged because of aberrant conditions on the grid. They also said it was not clear that three lines had hit trees. It might have been only one or two, they said.
The report cites six specific violations of industry rules, four by FirstEnergy and two by the Midwest I.S.O. In most cases, the violations consisted of failures to react to problems the two agencies were largely unaware of. In essence, they were cited for their ignorance.
Regulators say that in a tightly knit electric grid, such ignorance is unacceptable, threatening the stability of the entire system.
In addition, FirstEnergy was cited for inadequate training of its control room staff, and the Midwest I.S.O. for lacking the tools to monitor the utilities under its supervision.
FirstEnergy and the Midwest I.S.O. were cited for never alerting others to their problems.
A number of electric power consultants and engineering professors have argued, like FirstEnergy, that changes in energy markets, driven by deregulation, contributed to the blackout. Much more power is shipped from one region to another each day than was the case a few years ago, which has increased loads on transmission lines, especially in the Midwest, and has made transmission patterns more unpredictable. Critics of the current system say it has also created frequent imbalances in an elusive component of electricity, reactive power.
But the report took great pains to emphasize that conditions on the grid were within the bounds considered normal until after 3 p.m. on Aug. 14, despite a scattering of equipment failures across Ohio. Senior government officials also emphasized that point in a briefing with reporters on Wednesday, the effect being to pin the blame more squarely on FirstEnergy.
The report acknowledges that there had been a number of voltage fluctuations and problems in maintaining enough reactive power before transmission lines began to fail -- especially after a FirstEnergy power plant near Cleveland shut down at 1:31 p.m. But it contends that those problems, while potentially serious, were also fairly routine and should have been manageable.
The report does not address questions about the adequacy of the transmission system, or any role it might have played on Aug. 14, though federal officials have said it should be upgraded.
The report, characterized as a set of interim findings, disposed of two areas of inquiry. It states that there was no sign that sabotage, by a computer virus or other means, contributed to the blackout.
It also exonerates nuclear power plants of any role in the collapse, and says they all shut down safely. Some had speculated that nuclear plants could have accelerated the cascading failure by shutting down too quickly at the least sign of trouble.
Officials said they would hold hearings on their report in Toronto, New York and Cleveland.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 17, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Nov. 20 about an inquiry by a panel of government and industry officials into the causes of the August blackout misstated the full given name of Herb Dhaliwal, the Canadian minister of natural resourcess and a leader of the inquiry. It is Harbance, not Herbert.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham, left, and Herbert Dhaliwal, Canada's natural resources minister, discussed a report on power yesterday. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A28) Chart: "Leading Up to the Blackout"Computer problems and an inability to track the condition of the power grid stopped operators at FirstEnergy and the Midwest I.S.O., the organization that regulates power flow in the region, from intervening to prevent the blackout, according to a report released yesterday. 12:15 P.M. -- The "state estimator," a program used by the Midwest I.S.O. to determine if the grid is in trouble, stops producing accurate results. 1:07 P.M. -- A technician attempts to fix the state estimator, but forgets to turn it back on after his repairs and goes to lunch. It continues to malfunction for the rest of the afternoon. 2:14 P.M. -- FirstEnergy's alarm system, which notifies control room operators of line failures, freezes up and stops issuing warnings. 2:41 P.M. -- The computer running the alarm system fails, and a backup takes over. 2:54 P.M. to 3:08 P.M. -- The backup computer fails. While technicians are fixing it, control room operators' terminals slow down, causing operations that normally take seconds to take up to a minute. 3:05 P.M. -- FirstEnergy's Harding-Chamberlin line fails. Since the alarm system is not working, operators do not know of the failure, and do not perform an analysis to determine if further failures would cause problems. The Midwest I.S.O. is also unaware of the failure, and does not account for it in a program used to monitor power flow. As a result, the program does not predict subsequent overloads. 3:08 P.M. -- FirstEnergy technicians finish restarting the failed computer, but do not check with the control room to make sure the alarm system works. It is still frozen. 3:32 P.M. -- FirstEnergy's Hanna-Juniper line fails. The alarm system does not notify the operators. 3:45 P.M. -- After receiving phone calls from other power companies, FirstEnergy operators first begin to become aware of the severity of the situation. Additional lines begin to fail. 3:46 P.M. to 3:59 P.M. -- As technicians again try to fix the computers running the alarm system, the operators' terminals slow down. 4:10 P.M. -- The line failures cascade into a blackout across the Northeast and parts of Canada. (Source by U.S.-Canada Power System Outage Task Force)(pg. A28) Chart/Map: "The Scope of the Blackout"A map in the report released yesterday shows the area affected. Map of Northeast United States highlighting areas affected by the blackout. (pg. A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); HISTORY (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (75%); NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; BLACKOUTS AND BROWNOUTS (ELECTRICAL); COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR 

COMPANY: OHIO POWER CO (91%); FIRSTENERGY CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FIRSTENERGY CORP; MIDWEST INDEPENDENT TRANSMISSION SYSTEM OPERATOR 

TICKER: FE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (91%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; WALD, MATTHEW L; ABRAHAM, SPENCER (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (86%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%) OHIO; MICHIGAN; ONTARIO PROVINCE (CANADA); NEW YORK STATE; CANADA; 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003 



471 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Which party in theWhite House means good times for stock investors?

BYLINE:  By Hal R. Varian; Hal R. Varian is a professor of business, economics and information management at the University of California at Berkeley.

 BODY:
DOES the stock market do better when a Republican is president or when a Democrat is?
 The answer is: It's not even close. The stock market does far better under Democrats. 
 This perhaps surprising finding is examined by two finance professors at the University of California at Los Angeles, Pedro Santa-Clara and Rossen Valkanov, in an article titled "Political Cycles and the Stock Market," published in the October issue of The Journal of Finance. 
Professors Santa-Clara and Valkanov look at the excess market return -- the difference between a broad index of stock prices (similar to the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index) and the three-month Treasury bill rate -- between 1927 and 1998. The excess return measures how attractive stock investments are compared with completely safe investments like short-term T-bills.
Using this measure, they find that during those 72 years the stock market returned about 11 percent more a year under Democratic presidents and 2 percent more under Republicans -- a striking difference.
This nine-percentage-point excess can be broken down further into an average 5.3 percent higher real return for the stock market and a 3.7 percent lower return for Treasury bills under Democratic administrations.
This finding raises three other questions. First, is this just some data anomaly resulting from selective choice of sample or quirks of the analysis?
Second, if the effect is real, why don't investors take advantage of the predictable higher returns and buy stocks before elections that Democrats are likely to win, in that way pushing stock prices up and lowering returns? The third, and perhaps the most provocative, question: What is the economic rationale for the difference in returns?
Most Democratic administrations clearly had higher-than-average excess returns, with Franklin D. Roosevelt's second term (1937-41) being the only significant exception. Republicans have been associated with lower-than-average returns, with the only significant exception being Dwight D. Eisenhower's first term (1953-57). 
The difference in returns persists even if one looks at subsamples. For example, if you break the sample in two at 1963, the Republicans still come out with lower returns in both periods.
What would cause such a large difference? One possibility is that Wall Street investors expect the Democrats to be bad for the market and sell their stocks before elections that the Democratic candidate is likely to win. Then, when the Democrats do not prove as bad as expected, stock prices rise again.
The authors, though, find that the data do not support this theory -- stock prices generally do not tend to decline before elections that Democrats win.
But this finding itself raises another puzzle. If returns are so much higher for Democratic presidents than Republican ones, shouldn't we see investors rushing to the market when a Democratic victory looks likely?
We don't see that happen, either. "In sum," the authors write, "the market seems to react very little, if at all, to presidential election news."
Here's another theory. Economic policies under Democratic administrations may tend to be more volatilethan those under Republicans -- so investors demand higher returns to compensate them for the extra risk. A clever idea, but it is also contradicted by the evidence. If anything, the volatility of stock market returns is slightly higher under Republicans than under Democrats.
One interesting finding is that although both large and small companies do better under Democratic administrations, small companies do especially well, while larger ones do only a little better. The return on the smallest 10 percent of traded companies is 21 percent higher during Democratic administrations, while the return on the largest 10 percent is only 7.7 percent greater. What accounts for this difference?
We don't know.
Of course, there is always the possibility of a spurious correlation. As econometricians say, "If you torture the data hard enough, it will confess to anything." People have been looking for economic predictors of stock market behavior for decades, so it's not surprising that every now and then we find some correlations.
Still, presidents like to think -- or at least claim -- that they influence economic activity. So a finding that the party occupying the White House has an impact on stock market performance should mean something.
With respect to the questions asked above, Professors Santa-Clara and Valkanov can give a firm answer only to the first: Stock market excess returns have definitely been higher under Democrats than under Republicans.
They also show that some tempting possible answers to the question of why investors don't take advantage of this difference do not work.
They do not try to answer the last question, but they conjecture that the fiscal and regulatory priorities of presidents offer a possible explanation.
Most provocatively, they suggest that the causality might go the other way, with market returns driving presidential elections. Perhaps voters feel wealthier when stock prices are high and then vote Republican; when stock prices are low, they vote for Democrats.
The Santa-Clara/Valkanov finding offers an attractive area of research for both economists and political scientists. But even if scholars eventually come up with a satisfying explanation, we are still left with the financial side of the puzzle: For at least 72 years, the stock market did far better under Democratic presidents than under Republicans. How can it be that investors have failed to take advantage of this seemingly predictable pattern?
Professors Santa-Clara and Valkanov wrote the first draft of their paper in 1999, and they admit that they could have profited handsomely by selling stocks after the 2000 election. Alas, like most investors, they didn't sell at the most opportune time. Even finance professors sometimes misjudge the market.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Democratic Bounce"During Democratic administrations, investments in stocks have usually far outperformed investments in bonds. Under Republican presidents, stocks have generally underperformed bonds. Graph tracks the average annual amount that stocks outperformed or underperformed bonds for the following presidents: HooverRooseveltRoosevelt/TrumanTrumanEisenhowerKennedy/JohnsonJohnsonNixonNixon/FordCarterReaganBushClinton (Source by Political Cycles and the Stock Market, by Pedro Santa-Clara and Rossen Valkanov, U.C.L.A.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); BONDS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); WRITERS (71%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (58%)

PERSON: VARIAN, HAL R; SANTA-CLARA, PEDRO (PROF); VALKANOV, ROSSEN (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003 



472 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Textile Towns Appeal for Help, But Quotas May Not Suffice 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: BURLINGTON, N.C., Nov. 19 

 BODY:
Even as he worries about losing his job to competitors in China, Jay Crumpton cannot really avoid doing business with China.
 "Look at these Rockport shoes," said Mr. Crumpton, assistant plant manager at Copland Fabrics, a 60-year-old textile company here. "Look at the back side of the tongue, and it says 'Made in China."' 
 Here in the heart of North Carolina's textile country, China has become a fear, and an obsession. When the Bush administration moved on Tuesday to impose import quotas on certain Chinese textiles and clothing, it was responding to a furious outcry from North Carolina businesses, workers and elected officials.
The state has lost 147,000 jobs in the last three years, 37,500 of them in the textile industry. In the last year, at least 12 textile plants have closed in and around Burlington alone. 
Burlington Industries, bought out of bankruptcy protection last month by the financier Wilbur Ross, a connoisseur of distressed companies, is a shadow of its former self. Scores of smaller local companies have closed: Flynt Fabrics, which once employed 1,200 people; Tower Mills, a hosiery maker; Classic Hosiery.
Pillowtex, which bought up companies like Fieldcrest and is based about 70 miles to the southwest in Kannapolis, went bankrupt this summer and laid off all 4,800 of its North Carolina workers. 
"The industry has gone through the worst situation since 1929 -- and it's all happened in the past three years," said James R. Copland III, president of the family-owned Copland Fabrics. Mr. Copland says the company has been losing money for the last three years.
But even as textile executives and unions attribute their woes to China, there are questions whether quotas like those proposed by the White House -- temporary limits on the growth of imports of Chinese knitted fabrics, robes and bras -- would do much to solve their problems. 
Like most manufacturers, textile makers have been eliminating jobs for years, in large part to become more competitive in price. But they still face enormous pressure from low-wage countries, to the point where some economists question the practicality of trying to hang on to such work for Americans.
"The problems of the textile industry have been a long time in the making," said Robert A. Connolly, a professor at the University of North Carolina's Kenan-Flagler Business School. "The fundamentals that are driving things are not going to be fixed anytime soon."
And if quotas do provide relief, this could come at a high price. Wal-Mart and Kmart draw customers here with low prices and big selections, but much of the goods on their shelves come from China. And even as textile companies lose business to China, the country has emerged as the fastest-growing export market for American cotton farmers.
But people here have little patience for arguments about trade theory and global competition, and they are putting considerable pressure on President Bush.
Textile companies and their employees are organizing get-out-the-vote drives and warning that even ordinarily reliable Republican voters will turn against Mr. Bush and his allies in Congress if they fail to address their demands.
"The Solid South is no longer the Solid South for George W. Bush," said Jason C. Copland, executive vice president of Copland Fabrics and James's son. When Mr. Bush visited Winston-Salem earlier this month and talked about the need to retrain workers displaced by shifting trade patterns, people here were not soothed. "It was kind of like a slap in the face," the younger Mr. Copland said. "Why are we sending jobs over to Communist China? It was just like he didn't get it."
Jock Nash, the Washington lobbyist for Milliken & Company, a big, politically influential textile makerbased in Spartanburg, S.C., said he welcomed the Bush administration's decision to impose restrictions on some Chinese goods, but sensed that the administration did not have its heart in the issue. 
"This was probably a precedent that the government didn't want to establish," Mr. Nash said in a telephone interview.
There is no question that textile companies, along with many other kinds of American manufacturers, have been hammered by foreign competition. But China is only part of the problem. 
For example, industry analysts say that Pillowtex, which startled North Carolinians by laying off nearly 5,000 people almost overnight, got into trouble by building a tower of debt with a series of acquisitions. And industry executives point out that Pillowtex's biggest lines of business, sheets and towels, faced their greatest competition not from China but from India and Pakistan.
With bras, most of the labor-intensive work left the United States years ago. For the bras that compete with Chinese imports, American companies produce the needed fabric on highly automated equipment and then send it to Latin American countries like Honduras and the Dominican Republic. Under a trade agreement between the United States and Caribbean countries, the finished bras can be reimported duty-free as long as they are made from American textiles.
At Copland, which produces fabrics used for curtains and upholstery, executives say production has plunged by about 45 percent in the last year as a result of competition from China and other countries.
But the company had already cut its work force by more than half in the late 1990's, before China gained access on the current scale to the American market. The downsizing, to about 350 employees from 850, stemmed from a full modernization of equipment. Three large weaving rooms were consolidated into one room filled with more than 100 computerized looms requiring only a handful of technicians at any time.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James R. Copland III, center, president of a family fabric company in Burlington, N.C., with brother Ronald, left, and son Jason, executive vice president, who is mystified at "sending jobs over to Communist China." (Photo by Sara D. Davis for The New York Times)(pg. C4) Graph: "Shrunken Payrolls"The Bush administration has proposed tariffs on certain textile and apparel imports from China, hoping to strengthen a struggling domestic textile industry. Graph tracks the number of textile industry employees since 1990. UNITED STATES: 254,000NORTH CAROLINA: 68,100SOUTH CAROLINA: 41,100 (Source by Economy.com)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTILES (93%); LAYOFFS (90%); FABRIC MILLS (90%); TEXTILE MFG (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); TEXTILE MILLS (89%); FABRICS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); HOSIERY & SOCK MILLS (77%); BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); IMPORT CONTROLS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (75%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); COTTON FARMING (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) TEXTILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); INDUSTRY PROFILES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; BANKRUPTCIES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL TEXTILE GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BURLINGTON INDUSTRIES INC; ROSS, W L, & CO; FLYNT FABRICS; TOWER MILLS; CLASSIC HOSIERY; PILLOWTEX CORP; COPLAND FABRICS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS314999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS TEXTILE PRODUCT MILLS (56%); NAICS313210 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS (56%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (56%); SIC2299 TEXTILE GOODS, NEC (56%); SIC2231 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS, WOOL (56%)

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ROSS, WILBUR; COPLAND, JAMES R III; ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) CHINA; NORTH CAROLINA

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003 



473 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
United Airlines Seeks Delay In Pension Contributions
United Airlines is devising a plan to postpone about $2 billion of required pension contributions over the next three years, having concluded that it is the only way to bring the airline out of bankruptcy.
 Under the plan, the federal agency that insures pensions would take on significant risk and is expected to resist the plan. Page A1. 

Hewlett-Packard Beats Forecasts
Hewlett-Packard supplied reassuring evidence that its business was back on track as it reported quarterly sales and profits that surpassed expectations modestly. Wall Street seemed to greet the report more as a sign of encouraging progress rather than cause for celebration. The company reported its results after the close of the stock market, and in after-hours trading Hewlett-Packard shares rose by about 2 percent, to $22.80 a share. During regular hours, shares rose 56 cents, to $22.21. C4.

Report Examines Blackout Causes
The lights went out across a broad swath of North America on Aug. 14 because controllers at FirstEnergy, an Ohio power company, were flying blind, relying on bad information from broken computers and failed to react to a chain of equipment failures, a panel of government and industry officials reported. A1.

Novartis Notes Drugs in Its Pipeline
Novartis told investors that its pipeline was brimming with 10 new medicines that together would increase annual sales by $10 billion at their peaks. C9.

A day after signing an agreement to improve cross-border collaboration on prescription drugs, American and Canadian officials were at odds again over Canada's policy of allowing exports of inexpensive prescription medicines to the United States. C9.

Shares Rise After a Four-Day Slide
Stocks rose after four losing sessions. The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 66.3 points, or 0.69 percent, at 9,690.46. The Standard & Poor rose 8.29 points, or 0.8 percent, at 1,042.44. The Nasdaq composite index closed up 17.90 points, or 0.95 percent, at 1,899.65. C10.

Starts of new housing rose unexpectedly in October to the highest level in almost 18 years, led by record single-family home building, the Commerce Department reported. C4.

Chairman of Bertelsmann Resigns
The chairman of Bertelsmann, Gerd Schulte-Hillen, left, stepped down after losing the support of major shareholders in a power struggle with the chief executive, Gunter Thielen, officials said. Bertelsmann said in a statement, "there had been different views" between Mr. Schulte-Hillen and Mr. Thielen "on the strategic direction of the company." C6.

F.T.C. Sues a Nonprofit Counselor
The Federal Trade Commission sued AmeriDebt, a nonprofit credit counselor, accusing it of deceptive practices that masked fees and connections to for-profit enterprises. C17.

Business in their Blood
So many members of the extended Mounger family of Seattle have started their own companies that some say they are convinced the family possesses an entrepreneurial gene. Small Business. C8.

Ignoring Democrats' Golden Touch
Stocks consistently do better under Democratic presidents than under Republican ones. Why? Who knows. But here's a puzzle: Why don't investors cash in on this trend? Hal R. Varian: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,690.46 up 66.30Nasdaq composite -- 1,899.65 up 17.9010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.24% up 0.10The euro -- $1.1885 down 0.0060The dollar -- 109.30 yen up 1.26 Graph "TODAY" shows the percentage change in leading indicators from April-Sept 2003.October figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.2% Graph tracks the share price of Hewlett-Packard since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); AIRLINES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CONSUMER CREDIT COUNSELING (77%); BUSINESS TORTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY REVENUES (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); POWER FAILURES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (70%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (70%); HOUSING STARTS (70%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); EXECUTIVES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (91%); OHIO POWER CO (69%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); FIRSTENERGY CORP (55%); NOVARTIS AG (55%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (57%); FE (NYSE) (55%); NVS (NYSE) (55%); NOVN (SWX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (69%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (55%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003 



474 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 3927 words

HEADLINE: THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; 
Bush's Words to Britons: 'Both Our Nations Serve the Cause of Freedom'

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of the speech yesterday by President Bush at Whitehall Palace in London, as recorded by Federal News Service Inc.:
 Thank you all. Thank you very much. 
 Secretary Straw and Secretary Hoon, Admiral Cobbald and Dr. Chipman, distinguished guests. I want to thank you for your very kind welcome that you've given to me and to Laura. I also thank the groups hosting this event, the Royal United Services Institute and the International Institute for Strategic Studies. 
We're honored to be in the United Kingdom, and we bring the good wishes of the American people. 
It was pointed out to me that the last noted American to visit London stayed in a glass box dangling over the Thames. A few might have been happy to provide similar arrangements for me! I thank Her Majesty the Queen for interceding. We're honored to be staying at her house. 
Americans traveling to England always observe more similarities to our country than differences. I've been here only a short time, but I've noticed that the tradition of free speech exercised with enthusiasm is alive and well here in London. We have that at home, too. They now have that right in Baghdad as well.
The people of Great Britain also might see some familiar traits in Americans. We're sometimes faulted for a naive faith that liberty can change the world. If that's an error, it began with reading too much John Locke and Adam Smith. 
Americans have on occasion been called moralists who often speak in terms of right and wrong. That zeal has been inspired by examples on this island: by the tireless compassion of Lord Shaftesbury, the righteous courage of Wilberforce, and the firm determination of the Royal Navy over the decades to fight and end the trade in slaves. 
It's rightly said that Americans are a religious people. That's in part because the "Good News" was translated by Tyndale, preached by Wesley, lived out in the example of William Booth. At times, Americans are even said to have a Puritan streak. And where might that have come from? Well, we can start with the Puritans. 
To this fine heritage, Americans have added a few traits of our own: the good influence of our immigrants, the spirit of the frontier. Yet there remains a bit of England in every American. So much of our national character comes from you, and we're glad for it. 
The fellowship of generations is the cause of common beliefs. We believe in open societies, ordered by moral conviction. We believe in private markets, humanized by compassionate government. We believe in economies that reward effort, communities that protect the weak, and the duty of nations to respect the dignity and the rights of all. 
And whether one learns these ideals in County Durham or in West Texas, they instill mutual respect, and they inspire a common purpose. More than an alliance of security and commerce, the British and American peoples have an alliance of values. And today this old and tested alliance is very strong.
The deepest beliefs of our nations set the direction of our foreign policy. We value our own civil rights, so we stand for the human rights of others. We affirm the God-given dignity of every person, so we're moved to action by poverty and oppression and famine and disease. 
The United States and Great Britain share a mission in the world beyond the balance of power or the simple pursuit of interest. We seek the advance of freedom and the peace that freedom brings. Together our nations are standing and sacrificing for this high goal in a distant land at this very hour. And America honors the idealism and the bravery of the sons and daughters of Britain. 
The last president to stay at Buckingham Palace was an idealist, without question. At a dinner hosted by King George V in 1918, Woodrow Wilson made a pledge. With typical American understatement, he vowed that right and justice would become the predominant and controlling force in the world. 
President Wilson had come to Europe with his Fourteen Points for Peace. Many complimented him on this vision, yet some were dubious. Take, for example, the prime minister of France. He complained that God himself had only Ten Commandments. Sounds familiar. 
At Wilson's high point of idealism, however, Europe was one short generation from Munich and Auschwitz and the Blitz. Looking back, we see the reasons why. The League of Nations, lacking both credibility and will, collapsed at the first challenge of the dictators. Free nations failed to recognize, much less confront, the aggressive evil in plain sight. And so dictators went about their business, feeding resentments and anti-Semitism, bringing death to innocent people in this city and across the world, and filling the last century with violence and genocide. 
Through world war and cold war we learned that idealism, if it is to do any good in this world, requires common purpose and national strength, moral courage, and patience in difficult tasks. And now our generation has need of these qualities. 
On Sept. 11, 2001, terrorists left their mark of murder on my country and took the lives of 67 British citizens. With the passing of months and years, it is the natural human desire to resume a quiet life and to put that day behind us, as if waking from a dark dream. The hope that danger has passed is comforting, is understanding -- and it is false. 
The attacks that followed -- on Bali, Jakarta, Casablanca, Bombay, Mombasa, Najaf, Jerusalem, Riyadh, Baghdad and Istanbul -- were not dreams. They're part of a global campaign by terrorist networks to intimidate and demoralize all who oppose them. 
These terrorists target the innocent, and they kill by the thousands. And they would, if they gain the weapons they seek, kill by the millions and not be finished. The greatest threat of our age is nuclear, chemical or biological weapons in the hands of terrorists and the dictators who aid them. 
The evil is in plain sight. The danger only increases with denial. Great responsibilities fall once again to the great democracies. We will face these threats with open eyes, and we will defeat them. 
The peace and security of free nations now rests on three pillars. 
First, international organizations must be equal to the challenges facing our world, from lifting up failing states to opposing proliferation. Like 11 presidents before me, I believe in the international institutions and alliances that America helped to form and helps to lead. 
The United States and Great Britain have labored hard to help make the United Nations what it is supposed to be: an effective instrument of our collective security. In recent months, we've sought and gained three additional resolutions on Iraq, Resolutions 1441, 1483 and 1511, precisely because the global danger of terror demands a global response. 
The United Nations has no more compelling advocate than your prime minister, who at every turn has championed its ideals and appealed to its authority. He understands as well that the credibility of the U.N. depends on a willingness to keep its word and to act when action is required. 
America and Great Britain have done and will do all in their power to prevent the United Nations from solemnly choosing its own irrelevance and inviting the fate of the League of Nations. 
It's not enough to meet the dangers of the world with resolutions. We must meet those dangers with resolve. In this century, as in the last, nations can accomplish more together than apart. For 54 years, America has stood with our partners in NATO, the most effective multilateral institution in history. We're committed to this great democratic alliance, and we believe it must have the will and the capacity to act beyond Europe where threats emerge. 
My nation welcomes the growing unity of Europe, and the world needs America and the European Union to work in common purpose for the advance of security and justice. America is cooperating with four other nations to meet the dangers posed by North Korea. America believes the I.A.E.A. International Atomic Energy Agency must be true to its purpose and hold Iran to its obligations. 
Our first choice, and our constant practice, is to work with other responsible governments. We understand as well that the success of multilateralism is not measured by adherence to forms alone, the tidiness of the process, but by the results we achieve to keep our nations secure. 
The second pillar of peace and security in our world is the willingness of free nations, when the last resort arrives, to restrain aggression and evil by force. There are principled objections to the use of force in every generation, and I credit the good motives behind these views. Those in authority, however, are not judged only by good motivations. The people have given us the duty to defend them, and that duty sometimes requires the violent restraint of violent men. In some cases, the measured use of force is all that protects us from a chaotic world ruled by force. 
Most in the peaceful West have no living memory of that kind of world. Yet in some countries, the memories are recent. 
The victims of ethnic cleansing in the Balkans, those who survived the rapists and the death squads, had few qualms when NATO applied force to help end those crimes. The women of Afghanistan, imprisoned in their homes and beaten in the streets, and executed in public spectacles, did not reproach us for routing the Taliban. The inhabitants of Iraq's Baathist hell, with its lavish palaces and its torture chambers, with its massive statues and its mass graves, do not miss their fugitive dictator; they rejoiced at his fall. 
In all these cases, military action was preceded by diplomatic initiatives and negotiations and ultimatums and final chances, until the final moment. 
In Iraq, year after year, the dictator was given the chance to account for his weapons programs and end the nightmare for his people. Now the resolutions he defied have been enforced. And who will say that Iraq was better off when Saddam Hussein was strutting and killing, or that the world was safer when he held power? 
Who doubts that Afghanistan is a more just society and less dangerous without Mullah Omar playing host to terrorists from around the world? And Europe, too, is plainly better off with Milosevic answering for his crimes, instead of committing more. 
It's been said that those who live near a police station find it hard to believe in the triumph of violence. In the same way, free peoples might be tempted to take for granted the orderly societies we have come to know. Europe's peaceful unity is one of the great achievements of the last half-century, and because European countries now resolve differences through negotiation and consensus, there's sometimes an assumption that the entire world functions in the same way. 
But let us never forget how Europe's unity was achieved: by Allied armies ofliberation and NATO armies of defense. And let us never forget, beyond Europe's borders, in a world where oppression and violence are very real, liberation is still a moral goal, and freedom and security still need defenders. 
The third pillar of security is our commitment to the global expansion of democracy, and the hope and progress it brings, as the alternative to instability and hatred and terror. 
We cannot rely exclusively on military power to assure our long-term security. Lasting peace is gained as justice and democracy advance. In democratic and successful societies, men and women do not swear allegiance to malcontents and murderers; they turn their hearts and labor to building better lives. And democratic governments do not shelter terrorist camps or attack their peaceful neighbors; they honor the aspirations and dignity of their own people. 
In our conflict with terror and tyranny, we have an unmatched advantage, a power that cannot be resisted, and that is the appeal of freedom to all mankind. As global powers, both our nations serve the cause of freedom in many ways, in many places. 
By promoting development and fighting famine and AIDS and other diseases, we're fulfilling our moral duties as well as encouraging stability and building a firmer basis for democratic institutions. By working for justice in Burma, in the Sudan and in Zimbabwe, we give hope to suffering people and improve the chances for stability and progress. And by extending the reach of trade, we foster prosperity and the habits of liberty. And by advancing freedom in the greater Middle East, we help end a cycle of dictatorship and radicalism that brings millions of people to misery and brings danger to our own people. 
The stakes in that region could not be higher. If the Middle East remains a place where freedom does not flourish, it will remain a place of stagnation and anger and violence for export. And as we saw in the ruins of two towers, no distance on the map will protect our lives and way of life. 
If the greater Middle East joins the democratic revolution that has reached much of the world, the lives of millions in that region will be bettered and a trend of conflict and fear will be ended at its source. 
The movement of history will not come about quickly. Because of our own democratic development, the fact that it was gradual and, at times, turbulent, we must be patient with others. And the Middle East countries have some distance to travel. 
Arab scholars speak of a "freedom deficit" that has separated whole nations from the progress of our time. The essentials of social and material progress, limited government, equal justice under law, religious and economic liberty, political participation, free press and respect for the rights of women have been scarce across the region. 
Yet that has begun to change. In an arc of reform from Morocco to Jordan to Qatar, we are seeing elections, and new protections for women, and the stirrings of political pluralism. Many governments are realizing that theocracy and dictatorship do not lead to national greatness; they end in national ruin. They are finding, as others will find, that national progress and dignity are achieved when governments are just and people are free. 
The democratic progress we've seen in the Middle East was not imposed from abroad, and neither will the greater progress we hope to see. Freedom, by definition, must be chosen and defended by those who choose it. Our part as free nations is to ally ourselves with reform wherever it occurs. Perhaps the most helpful change we canmake is to change our own thinking. 
In the West there's been a certain skepticism about the capacity or even the desire of Middle Eastern peoples for self-government. We're told that Islam is somehow inconsistent with a democratic culture. Yet more than half of the world's Muslims are today contributing citizens in democratic societies. 
It is suggested that the poor, in their daily struggles, care little for self-government. Yet the poor especially need the power of democracy to defend themselves against corrupt elites. 
The peoples of the Middle East share a high civilization, a religion of personal responsibility and a need for freedom as deep as our own. It is not realism to suppose that one-fifth of humanity is unsuited to liberty; it is pessimism and condescension, and we should have none of it. 
We must shake off decades of failed policy in the Middle East. Your nation and mine in the past have been willing to make a bargain: to tolerate oppression for the sake of stability. Long-standing ties often led us to overlook the faults of local elites. Yet this bargain did not bring stability or make us safe. It merely bought time while problems festered and ideologies of violence took hold. 
As recent history has shown, we cannot turn a blind eye to oppression just because the oppression is not in our own backyard. No longer should we think tyranny is benign because it is temporarily convenient. Tyranny is never benign to its victims, and our great democracies should oppose tyranny wherever it is found. 
Now we're pursuing a different course, a forward strategy of freedom in the Middle East. We will consistently challenge the enemies of reform and confront the allies of terror. We will expect a higher standard from our friends in the region, and we will meet our responsibilities in Afghanistan and in Iraq by finishing the work of democracy we have begun. 
There were good-faith disagreements in your country and mine over the course and timing of military action in Iraq. Whatever has come before, we now have only two options: to keep our word or to break our word. The failure of democracy in Iraq would throw its people back into misery and turn that country over to terrorists who wish to destroy us. Yet democracy will succeed in Iraq, because our will is firm, our word is good, and the Iraqi people will not surrender their freedom. 
Since the liberation of Iraq, we have seen changes that could hardly have been imagined a year ago. The new Iraqi police force protects the people instead of bullying them. More than 150 Iraqi newspapers are now in circulation, printing what they choose, not what they're ordered. Schools are open, with textbooks free of propaganda. Hospitals are functioning and are well-supplied. Iraq has a new currency, the first battalion of a new army, representative local governments and a governing council with an aggressive timetable for national sovereignty. 
This is substantial progress, and much of it has proceeded faster than similar efforts in Germany and Japan after World War II. Yet the violence we are seeing in Iraq today is serious. And it comes from Baathist holdouts and jihadists from other countries and terrorists drawn to the prospect of innocent bloodshed. 
It is the nature of terrorism and the cruelty of a few to try to bring grief and the loss to many. The armed forces of both our countries have taken losses, felt deeply by our citizens. Some families now live with the burden of great sorrow. We cannot take the pain away, but these families can know that they are not alone. We pray for their strength, we pray for their comfort, and we will never forget the courage of the ones they loved. 
The terrorists have a purpose, a strategy to their cruelty. They view the rise of democracy in Iraq as a powerful threat to their ambitions. In this, they are correct. They believe their acts of terror against our coalition, against international aid workers and against innocent Iraqis will make us recoil and retreat. In this, they are mistaken. 
We did not charge hundreds of miles into the heart of Iraq and pay a bitter cost of casualties, and liberate 25 million people, only to retreat before a band of thugs and assassins. We will help the Iraqi people establish a peaceful and democratic country in the heart of the Middle East, and by doing so, we will defend our people from danger. 
A forward strategy of freedom must also apply to the Arab-Israeli conflict. This is a difficult period in a part of the world that has known many. Yet our commitment remains firm. We seek justice and dignity. We seek a viable, independent state for the Palestinian people, who have been betrayed by others for too long. We seek security and recognition for the state of Israel, which has lived in a shadow of random death for too long. 
These are worthy goals in themselves, and by reaching them, we will also remove an occasion and excuse for hatred and violence in the broader Middle East. 
Achieving peace in the Holy Land is not just a matter of the shape of a border. As we work on the details of peace, we must look to the heart of the matter, which is the need for a viable Palestinian democracy. Peace will not be achieved by Palestinian rulers who intimidate opposition, who tolerate and profit from corruption, and maintain their ties to terrorist groups. These are the methods of the old elites, who time and again have put their own self-interest above the interests of the people they claim to serve. The long-suffering Palestinian people deserve better. They deserve true leaders capable of creating and governing a Palestinian state. 
Even after the setbacks and frustrations of recent months, goodwill and hard effort can bring about a Palestinian state and a secure Israel. 
Those who would lead a new Palestine should adopt peaceful means to achieve the rights of their people and create the reformed institutions of a stable democracy. Israel should freeze settlement construction, dismantle unauthorized outposts, end the daily humiliation of the Palestinian people, and not prejudice final negotiations with the placements of walls and fences. 
Arab states should end incitement in their own media, cut off public and private funding for terrorism and establish normal relations with Israel. Leaders in Europe should withdraw all favor and support from any Palestinian ruler who fails his people and betrays their cause. 
And Europe's leaders and all leaders should strongly oppose any anti-Semitism, which poisons public debates over the future of the Middle East. 
Ladies and gentlemen, we have great objectives before us that make our Atlantic alliance as vital as it has ever been. We will encourage the strength and effectiveness of international institutions. We will use force, when necessary, in the defense of freedom. And we will raise up an ideal of democracy in every part of the world. On these three pillars, we will build the peace and security of all free nations in a time of danger. 
So much good has come from our alliance of conviction and might. So much now depends on the strength of this alliance as we go forward. America has always found strong partners in London, leaders of good judgment and blunt counsel and backbone when times are tough. And I have found all those qualities in your current prime minister, who has my respect and my deepest thanks. 
The ties between our nations, however, are deeper than the relationship between leaders. 
These ties endure because they are formed by the experience and responsibilities and adversity we have shared. And in the memory of our peoples, there will always be one experience, one central event when the seal was fixed on the friendship between Britain and the United States. The arrival in Great Britain of more than 1.5 million American soldiers and airmen in the 1940's was a turning point in the Second World War. For many Britons, it was the first close look at Americans other than in the movies. 
Some of you here today may still remember the friendly invasion. Our lads, they took some getting used to. There was even a saying about what many of them were up to, in addition to being overpaid and over here. At a reunion in North London some years ago, an American pilot who had settled in England after his military service said, "Well, I'm still over here, and probably overpaid. So two out of three isn't bad." 
In that time of war, the English people did get used to the Americans. They welcomed soldiers and fliers into their villages and homes and took to calling them "our boys." About 70,000 of those boys did their part to affirm our special relationship. They returned home with English brides. 
Americans gained a certain image of Britain, as well. We saw an island threatened on every side, a leader who did not waver and a country of the firmest character. And that has not changed. The British people are the sort of partners you want when serious work needs doing. The men and women of this kingdom are kind and steadfast and generous and brave, and America is fortunate to call this country our closest friend in the world. 
May God bless you all.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush during his speech yesterday to foreign policy experts in the Banqueting House of Whitehall Palace in London. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSCRIPTS (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); BRITISH ROYALTY (76%); NAVIES (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); IMMIGRATION (71%); RELIGION (65%); TERRORISM (59%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (56%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR STRATEGIC STUDIES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); ADAM SMITH (58%); TONY BLAIR (55%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (55%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); ENGLAND (90%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%) GREAT BRITAIN; IRAQ; ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003 



475 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Senate Starts Energy Debate Under Threat Of Filibuster 

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 19 

 BODY:
New energy legislation encountered significant opposition on Wednesday as the Senate began debate, with Republican and Democratic critics threatening a filibuster that could prevent a chief priority of President Bush from becoming law this year.
 In contrast to its easy approval this week by the House, the legislation came under attack from senators of both parties. They criticized its cost and contents, particularly a provision that would grant producers of a gasoline additive immunity from product liability suits. 
 Opponents said they believed they were within a handful of votes of denying the bill's authors the 60 votes they would need to cut off debate in the 100-member Senate. At least six Republicans joined the push to block a final vote on the proposal. 
"It favors special interests, it contains billions of dollars in wasteful subsidies, and it fails to promote energy conservation," said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, who announced that she would support a filibuster. Ms. Collins and others also criticized a proposal to require greater use of corn-based ethanol in gasoline, saying that would drive up gasoline prices in some parts of the country to benefit Midwestern corn growers. 
Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, described the bill as a "grab bag of special interest projects directed at benefiting one segment of the economy or one segment of the population at the expense of other segments of the population." 
Many of the tax breaks in the bill would expire after a few years, an important reason that just over half the 10-year value of the breaks would be granted in the first three years, according to the Joint Committee on Taxation, the official scorekeeper. If any breaks were extended, that would add to the real cost of the measure.
The joint committee calculated the cost of the bill at $23.5 billion over 10 years. But the Senate Finance Committee said interactions between the energy bill and other tax laws would make the total cost $25.7 billion of lost revenue over 10 years. 
Backers of the proposal, which would give billions in tax breaks to power producers and seeks to spur investment in the electric grid, defended it as a way to diversify energy sources and hold down fuel costs.
"We need to move forward on this bill," Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana, said.
Senator Pete V. Domenici, the New Mexico Republican who is chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, warned that a filibuster would kill the ethanol initiative. 
"And I don't know when it ever comes back," he said.
Aides to Mr. Domenici said the Senate Republican leadership could not ensure the votes to beat back the filibuster without help from Democrats and called on the Democratic leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, an advocate of the ethanol plan, to deliver support.
The fact that Republicans and Democrats were lined up on both sides of the issue was a vivid display of the regional nature of the energy battle, which lawmakers and Senate aides said they expected would be decided on Friday in a vote on limiting the debate. If the backers of the measure can gather the 60 votes to shut off a filibuster, passage by a simple majority would be assured.
Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat who is an organizer of the filibuster effort, said he and other opponents were close to rounding up the necessary votes to defeat the effort to invoke "cloture," or a limit on debate. 
"It is neck and neck and will be decided by a vote or two," Mr. Schumer said. "It is going to be one of the closest nail-biters we have had here in a while."
If the opponents succeed, that would be a significant setback for the Republican leadership and Mr. Bush, who is one step away from winning energy legislation that he has been seeking since early in his administration.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, an energy bill critic. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILIBUSTER (94%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ETHANOL (89%); ALCOHOLS (89%); FUEL ADDITIVES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); GASOLINE (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (73%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); CORN FARMING (67%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (60%) ENERGY AND POWER; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FILIBUSTERS AND DEBATE CURBS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JUDD GREGG (73%); SUSAN COLLINS (73%); MARY LANDRIEU (58%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); TOM DASCHLE (58%) HULSE, CARL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003 



476 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-20

Bush Urges Europeans To Fight Terrorism
President Bush encouraged Britain to join in rallying European governments and the United Nations behind a long-term campaign to defeat terrorism and bring democracy to the Middle East. Antiwar protesters gathered, and hundreds of police officers kept a wary eye on the demonstrators. A1

Reward Posted for Iraqi General
American officials offered a $10 million reward for information leading to the death or capture of Gen. Izzat Ibrahim, the highest ranking member of Saddam Hussein's inner circle who is still at large. General Ibrahim is believed to be directing attacks against American forces. A18

Setback for Bush on Iran
The International Atomic Energy Agency appears prepared to approve a resolution on Iran's nuclear program that will stop short of recommending Security Council action, a setback to President Bush, officials from several countries said. A1

Turkey Identifies Bombers
Turkish authorities identified two Turkish citizens as the suicide bombers who carried out the attacks last week in Istanbul. The men's ties raise the prospect that Turkey's past problem with homegrown terrorists may have merged with the larger terrorist movement. A6

Schroder Headed to U.S.
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany is headed to New York for meetings intended to persuade American businessmen that Germany is rebounding economically. A13

New Species of Whale Reported
Using analysis of bone structure and DNA, Japanese researchers reported uncovering a new species of whale in a group that has long been a subject of taxonomic confusion. They call the new whale Balaenoptera omurai. A10

NATIONAL A23-29

Arrest Warrant Issued For Michael Jackson
The authorities in Santa Barbara, Calif., announced that they had issued a warrant for the arrest of Michael Jackson on multiple counts of child molestation and were working with Mr. Jackson's lawyers to arrange for his surrender. A1

Blackout Report Blames Utility
A panel of government and industry officials reported that the largest blackout in North American history was set off by a series of failures at an Ohio power company, where workers could not act to halt an escalating crisis because they did not even know it existed. A1

Sniper's Former Wife Testifies
Mildred Muhammad told jurors considering the death penalty for her former husband, John Muhammad, of his transition from devoted parent and business owner to the central figure in the Washington-area sniper case, giving perhaps the clearest indication of his motives. A23

Gay Marriage Opponents Rally
Representatives from half a dozen conservative groups met in Washington to plan an aggressive strategy to counteract a Massachusetts court ruling allowing gay marriage. A29

Expanding the F.B.I.'s Powers
Congressional negotiators approved a measure to expand the F.B.I.'s counterterrorism powers, giving the bureau greater authority to demand records from businesses in terrorism cases without the approval of a judge or a grand jury. A23

Energy Bill in Jeopardy
Republican and Democratic critics threatened a filibuster against new energy legislation that could prevent a chief priority of President Bush from becoming law this year. A28

Push on Medicare Bill
Congressional negotiators raced to finish sweeping Medicare legislation, hoping to send it to the full House and Senate by week's end. A25

NEW YORK/REGION B1-12

Wide Range of Responses To 9/11 Memorial Designs
The eight designs for the World Trade Center memorial that were unveiled yesterday elicited reactions ranging from ire to enthusiasm. A1

Revisiting Cabaret Licenses
The Bloomberg administration said it would move to repeal a Jazz Age law that prohibits dancing in bars and nightclubs that do not hold special licenses. B1

Three Killed by Power Line
Two brothers and a cousin were electrocuted in New Jersey, after a power line fell across a parked car outside their home. One of the victims was killed as he tried to get in the vehicle, and the two others died trying to help him. A third brother suffered burns to his hands. B1

Fire Devastates a Block
A half-block of Greenpoint, a quiet, largely Polish, Brooklyn neighborhood, was gutted by flames in a fire, leaving dozens homeless. B1

Neediest Cases B6

SPORTS D1-8

ARTS E1-10

CIRCUITS G1-12

HOUSE & HOME F1-16

OBITUARIES C19

Michael Kamen
A composer who won Grammy Awards and Oscar nominations for fusing hard-rock riffs with classical style in albums for Pink Floyd and for films, he was 55. C19

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

United Seeks Pension Relief
United Airlines is hoping to gain I.R.S. approval for a plan to postpone about $2 billion of required pension contributions over three years, having concluded it is the only way to get out of bankruptcy. A1

A Bill to Curb Fund Abuse
The House of Representatives approved legislation to deter trading abuses and fund mismanagement by improving the disclosure of fee information and increasing the independence of fund boards. C1

47 Currency Traders Charged
Charges were filed against 47 people in connection with rigged currency-trading schemes by traders at prominent Wall Street banks, one day after F.B.I. agents swooped into Manhattan offices to make arrests. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A30-31

Editorials: A victory for gay marriage; the memorial finalists; aiming at Chinese imports, again; origins of a blackout.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Bridge E5
TV Listings E9
Crossword E7
Weather B11
Public Lives B6

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); APPROVALS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (88%); POWER FAILURES (88%); MARINE MAMMALS (86%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ARREST WARRANTS (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); ARRESTS (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (75%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (74%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); HISTORY (71%); CHILD ABUSE (69%); LITIGATION (68%); MARRIAGE (65%); LAWYERS (63%); JURY TRIALS (62%); CHILDREN (62%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (62%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (60%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (60%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: OHIO POWER CO (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (63%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); MICHAEL JACKSON (66%); GERHARD SCHRODER (64%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (75%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); TURKEY (94%); EUROPE (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); GERMANY (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003 



477 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: THE ALLY; 
Of Blair and Bush, and the Ties That Bind

BYLINE:  By WARREN HOGE 

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 19 

 BODY:
When President Franklin D. Roosevelt and Prime Minister Winston Churchill forged their strong alliance during World War II, the phrase "special relationship" was coined to describe the ties between Britain and the United States.
 Now that Tony Blair is prime minister and George W. Bush is president, the term has been updated to "hug them close." 
 Where the original phrase suggested a sense of equality and partnership, the new one -- first uttered by a Blair aide and now in currency as the title of an authoritative book on American-British relations -- conveys a sense of vulnerability and wishfulness more appropriate to the present status of the relationship as seen from London.
Behind much of the opposition to the state visit by President Bush is a feeling among many Britons that while the part of the association based on shared language, history, culture and economy remains solid and enduring, the political and diplomatic costs have become too high. 
In hugging Washington warmly, Mr. Blair is doing what almost all postwar prime ministers have done, but it has placed him at the side of an American chief executive who is a polarizing figure in Britain and in support of a United States-led war that is deeply unpopular here.
Mr. Blair gains little if anything from being pictured with Mr. Bush. By contrast, said Robin Cook, a former cabinet member who resigned over the war, being seen at Buckingham Palace and alongside Mr. Blair amounted to "the mother of all photo ops for President Bush."
Mr. Bush's presence is serving to point up what divides the two allies as well as what unites them. Adding to British frustration, there are no indications that the visit will produce any concrete results that would answer the nagging question about whether the prime minister's loyalty gains Britain any added consideration in Washington. Mr. Blair's official spokesman told reporters Tuesday that there would be no developments on two major issues of concern to Britons: the status of nine British citizens held by the United States at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba and tariffs imposed by Mr. Bush on European steel that the World Trade Organization has declared illegal.
The spokesman deflected questions artfully by invoking the special nature of the relationship. Mr. Blair and Mr. Bush spoke weekly by telephone or video link, he said, and the state visit should be viewed as "part of a continuing conversation, not a one-off event where each side has to produce goodies for the other."
Mr. Blair is a firm believer in the idea that it is not possible for Britain to have an impact in the world without being America's reliable ally, and he developed a close association with President Clinton. On his last visit to Britain as president in December 2001, Mr. Clinton told Mr. Blair to get as close to Mr. Bush as he had to him.
It was advice Mr. Blair had already taken since Britain's ambassador to Washington at the time, Sir Christopher Meyer, had been cultivating the Bush campaign to make sure the prime minister's closeness to Mr. Clinton would not compromise his relations with the new Republican president.
Mr. Blair willingly became the president's defender to dubious Europeans and skeptical members of his own party, as well as his ally in Iraq. Peter Riddell, the author of "Hug Them Close," reports in the book that Mr. Blair actually found Mr. Bush a more straightforward and trustworthy partner than Mr. Clinton.
Mr. Blair's loyalty to the president has remained steadfast even though the perception that he favors America over Europe has undermined his ambition to become a leader on the Continent, and the failure to find banned weapons in Iraq -- the justification he cited to win Britons' support for war -- has cut his popularity at home.
If other Europeans were slow to realize the enormity and urgency of the impact of Sept. 11 on Americans, Mr. Blair's reaction was immediate. Sir David Manning, the former chief foreign policy adviser in Downing Street who is now Britain's ambassador in Washington, said that the attacks "struck iron into the spines of George Bush and Tony Blair."
In his toast at Buckingham Palace on Wednesday night, Mr. Bush paid tribute to the victory in World War II, citing "a great Atlantic alliance that defeated tyranny in Europe." The president compared that to "a mission of freedom and democracy in Afghanistan and Iraq," adding, "Once again, American and Britain are joined in the defense of our common values."
To objections over his close alliance with Mr. Bush, Mr. Blair asks if detractors would prefer the United States be left to shoulder the burden of international security by itself. "I always say to people that the thing I fear is not American unilateralism," he said to a group of London-based American reporters last week. "It is actually American isolationism were it ever to go down that path."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 22, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about relationships between American presidents and British prime ministers since World War II misstated the date of Bill Clinton's last visit to Britain as president. It was December 2000, not December 2001.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters on The Mall in London yesterday as President Bush returned to Buckingham Palace after delivering a speech at the Banqueting Hall. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (60%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); TONY BLAIR (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%) HOGE, WARREN; BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); IRAQ (93%); CUBA (67%) GREAT BRITAIN; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003 



478 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Aiming at Chinese Imports, Again 

 BODY:
The Victoria's Secret prime-time fashion show was broadcast last night. Neither Heidi Klum nor Tyra Banks unfurled banners protesting Washington's plans to restrict the importation of made-in-China lingerie. And that's too bad. It might have lent the vapid hour a worthier air. 
 On Tuesday, the Bush administration announced that it would restore curbs on imports of Chinese knit fabrics, dressing gowns and bras. Under the terms of the agreement China signed to join the World Trade Organization, Washington is entitled to stem any surge of imports from China, without needing to allege any wrongdoing. 
 But the case against Beijing looks flimsy. China simply appears to be the current scapegoat of choice in Washington for any and all economic woes. Far more of the 2.5 million manufacturing jobs lost in this country since 2001 were lost to a slowing economy and to productivity growth than to any foreigner's nefarious ways.
America's exports to China are rising faster than its imports, and the growth of those imports is largely driven by American and other foreign investment in China. Any caricature of China as a closed, unfair trader is further belied by the trade deficit it runs with many of its Asian neighbors. Its overall surplus is rather modest.
Nonetheless, the Bush administration decided to cater to anti-Beijing sentiment by seeking limits on some apparel imports. If the White House is calculating that this may stave off calls for even more serious protectionism, it is willfully disregarding its own record. Washington's steel tariffs and its farm bill of 2002 -- two other reckless examples of the administration's bizarre strategy of advancing trade liberalization by placating special-interest protectionists -- have antagonized the rest of the world, while encouraging more calls at home for protectionism. 
The move on textiles is alarming in that it may presage what would be a disastrous American retreat from a W.T.O. commitment to abolish import quotas on textiles and apparel goods by 2005. Along with rich nations' farm subsidies, restrictions on trade in textiles are rightly viewed by the developing world as a sign that the global trading system is rigged against them. The United States should be working to comply with the 2005 deadline, rather than restoring some of the few quotas it has already lifted.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); TEXTILES (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); LINGERIE (78%); SLEEPWEAR & LOUNGEWEAR (78%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); FABRICS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); PRODUCTIVITY (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (64%) TEXTILES; EDITORIALS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) 

COMPANY: VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: HEIDI KLUM (73%); TYRA BANKS (73%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003 



479 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Housing Starts In October Near 18-Year High 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Starts of new housing unexpectedly rose in October to the highest level in almost 18 years, led by record single-family home building, the Commerce Department said yesterday.
 Builders began work on 1.96 million homes at an annual pace last month, the fastest since January 1986 and a 2.9 percent increase from a revised 1.905 million pace in September. Building permits, an indicator of future construction, rose 5.2 percent, to 1.973 million, the highest since 1984. 
 Housing is "the gift that just keeps giving," said Richard DeKaser, an economist at the National City Corporation in Cleveland. More permits, Mr. DeKaser said, "guarantee a solid fourth quarter."
Housing and consumer spending were the linchpins for the economy when growth again slowed at the end of 2002 and in the first quarter of this year. Continued strength in home sales and construction is now being accompanied by more corporate purchases of equipment, suggesting sounder economic expansion.
The interest rate on the 30-year fixed-rate mortgage is less than a percentage point higher than June's record low of 5.21 percent, bolstering new-home sales, which the National Association of Home Builders forecasts will reach a record.
On a mixed note, new-home construction increased in the West and South but fell in otherregions of the country. Housing starts rose 17.7 percent in the West, to a 526,000 annual pace, the highest since December 1986. They increased 4.9 percent in the South, to a pace of 898,000, the highest since January 1986. In the Northeast, though, starts fell 18 percent, to an annual 146,000, and in the Midwest, they were down 8 percent, to a 390,000 pace.
Residential construction accounts for 5 percent of the value of goods and services in the United States and leads to spending on major purchases like furniture and appliances. 
Economists had forecast housing starts to drop to a 1.850 million annual pace from the previously reported 1.888 million in September.
Starts of single-family homes jumped 5.7 percent, to a record 1.617 million unit pace, from 1.53 million a month earlier. But starts of apartment buildings and other multiple-unit residential property dropped 8.5 percent, to a 343,000 annual pace.
Building permits for single-family homes rose 3.2 percent, to a record 1.535 million annual pace. Total permits have held at 1.8 million or higher for six consecutive months for the first time since 1973.
The rental-housing vacancy rate rose to a record 9.9 percent in the third quarter from 9.6 percent in the second quarter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING STARTS (92%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); BUILDING PERMITS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (67%) HOUSING; HOUSING STARTS; RENTING AND LEASING 

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (71%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (71%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003 



480 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: Married or Not, It's a Full House 

BYLINE:  By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
WHEN Steven Lofton, Roger Croteau and Mr. Lofton's five foster children -- who were born to H.I.V.-positive mothers -- prepare Thanksgiving dinner, it will be in a kitchen in Portland, Ore., with cobalt blue walls and fire-engine-red Formica cabinets. Then they will join more than 20 guests in a dining room with an orange tabletop, yellow carpeting and a silver ceiling.
 "Some of us are people of color," Mr. Lofton, 46, said, referring to his interracial family. "And some of us are people who love color." 
 Mr. Lofton's sense of humor is one of the things that has sustained him through 16 years of raising children under laws that can be hostile to gay parents. This week, the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, in ruling that same-sex couples should be allowed to marry, noted that children of such couples deserve the stability that marriage brings. The court wrote that children should not be penalized "because the state disapproves of their parents' sexual orientation." 
But not every state shares that view. Mr. Lofton has been entangled in a legal dispute with Florida (where the family used to live) since the mid-1990's. That's when Bert Sanchez, one of Mr. Lofton's foster sons, tested negative for H.I.V. -- great news, except that it made him eligible for adoption under Florida rules. Mr. Lofton and Mr. Croteau, 48, both pediatric nurses, had taken Bert in when he was 9 weeks old. Mr. Lofton applied to adopt him, so that the boy could remain in their home.
"Moving Bert would be child abuse," Mr. Lofton said flatly.
But Florida refused to allow Mr. Lofton to adopt Bert, now 12 -- because since 1977 it has been illegal for gay men or women to adopt children there. The state hoped to place Bert with a heterosexual couple.
Mr. Lofton and Mr. Croteau, feeling beleaguered by Florida's Department of Children and Families, moved to Oregon in 1998, and eventually took in more foster children: two young H.I.V.-positive brothers. 
Lynn Jenkins, a social services specialist for the Oregon Department of Child Welfare, said, "I saw the wonderful work they were doing with the children they already had."
Although the three older children -- Bert, Frank Alexander, 16, and their one girl, Tracey Frederick, also 16 -- are still under the jurisdiction of Florida, things are calmer for the family now that they are three time zones away, Mr. Lofton said.
In 1999, with the American Civil Liberties Union representing him, Mr. Lofton sued the State of Florida over the refusal to let him become Bert's legal parent. (Ironically, one of Florida's rationales, according to its briefs, is that two men or two women cannot offer children the "stable home environment" that results from heterosexual marriage.) The case, which was taken up by Rosie O'Donnell, is now before the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, in Atlanta, and could be decided at any time.
If Mr. Lofton and Mr. Croteau were to marry, it would have no direct effect on the Florida case, said Leslie Cooper, a lawyer from the A.C.L.U., even though same-sex marriage would deprive the state of one of its rationales for banning gay adoption.
"Florida law is clear on the subject," Bill Spann, a spokesman for the state's children and families agency, said by telephone. "Cohabitating same-sex couples are not permitted to adopt. We feel strongly that children's interests are best served by being raised in a home with both a mother and a father present."
Mr. Croteau was born in Bellingham, Mass., on the Rhode Island border. He and Mr. Lofton have not yet discussed returning to Massachusetts to wed. In fact, Mr. Lofton said he is more concerned about making time for school plays, swim meets and camping trips. (He recently chaperoned 95 seventh and eighth graders on a weeklong science trip to the Oregon coast.)
"With five children, especially this time of year, you're totally focused on school," he said. 
Mr. Lofton added, "Roger and I are already more married than most people." The couple have been together for 20 years and have, by their estimate, changed 20,000 diapers.
When Mr. Lofton and Mr. Croteau began taking in babies with AIDS in the late 1980's, nobody expected the children to reach kindergarten. "There were no AIDS drugs at all," Mr. Croteau said. 
One of the foster children, Ginger, died from complications of AIDS in 1995, when she was 6. Three years later, when the couple decided to move, they chose Portland because Mr. Lofton's parents, brother and a sister live there, and, he said, "this way the kids would get to see my family all the time." Mr. Lofton made several scouting trips to Oregon to find a house the couple could afford. (Mr. Lofton, a full-time foster parent, receives payments from Florida for the three older children, and from Oregon for Wayne and Ernie Bethancourt. Mr. Croteau works with pediatric H.I.V. researchers at Oregon Health and Science University Hospital.)
While house hunting, he said, he saw nothing but beige. "That's the predominant color in the Northwest."
Eventually, he found a 1929 Craftsman-style bungalow with leaded-glass windows, brass heating vents, glass doorknobs and lots of original woodwork for $255,000. It is in a neighborhood, Arbor Lodge, that Mr. Lofton calls "Mayberry with S.U.V.'s."
Soon after they arrived, the couple painted their house blue and green. Then they tore their lawn out.
"Lawns are not only boring, but environmentally wasteful," Mr. Lofton said. Instead he has a jungle of windmill palms, New Zealand flax and 18 varieties of ivy.
Four other families on the block -- perhaps inspired by their "queer eye for the straight suburb" attitude -- have also replaced their lawns, he said.
Gretchen Corbett, a neighbor who raised a daughter (now grown) in Arbor Lodge, said, "Sometimes, I wish they'd come over and do my house."
Mr. Lofton and Mr. Croteau spent six months renovating their three-bedroom home with some help from Mr. Lofton's family. His brother, a welder, made a four-foot aluminum Gumby for the stairwell. Mr. Lofton's father, a glass blower, created colorful glass legs for a new mailbox.
To save money, they lived in the house throughout the renovation, closing off one room at a time. (The one requirement was that there always be working washer and dryer. Mr. Lofton said he does 15 loads a week.)
A leather mantelpiece in the living room was an economy measure, Mr. Lofton said -- an easy way to hide wood that had split after the previous owners overwatered their houseplants. When he wanted a colorful fabric for the walls of the master bedroom, he ordered Sunbrella, an acrylic awning fabric. He made a stair rail out of a faux-leather rope -- the idea, he said, came to him while waiting in line at a movie theater.
The State of Oregon supervises the Lofton foster home, under contract with Florida's Department of Children and Families. Three years ago, Oregon's child welfare agency asked Mr. Lofton and Mr. Croteau to take over the care of Ernie, now 7, and Wayne, now 10. 
Mr. Lofton was initially resistant. "I was ready to rejoin the work force," he said. "The last thing we were looking to do was expand our family."
But they made room for the two towheaded boys, who share a room with Frank and Bert. Mr. Lofton said having four boys in one bedroom "frees up more of the house for everyone to play in."
He added: "The last thing I want is to have my teens alone in their bedrooms with the computer on and the door closed."
Despite the riotous decor, the house is impossibly tidy. "We're not in a rut, but we believe in routine," Mr. Croteau said. All five children have chores. Ernie, the youngest, "makes his bed, puts away his toys and is responsible for organizing the shoe rack in the basement," Mr. Croteau said.
"At 7, there's plenty he can do, and he wants to do it."
All five children attend the Metropolitan Learning Center, a K-12 magnet school known for its open-minded attitude. "It's the kind of school that has a float in the gay pride parade," Mr. Lofton said. 
With college approaching for Tracey and Frank, Mr. Lofton is looking to earn more money. He said that his Florida foster parent contract allows him to work from home, so he is setting up business as an interior designer. 
Mr. Lofton's decorating skills include finding ways to defend surfaces from active children. And not just by using washable fabrics and eggshell-finish paint. To keep metal chair legs from scratching wood floors, Mr. Lofton used lime-green tennis balls as feet.
Some days are not easy. But "being frustrated with teenagers is normal," Mr. Lofton said. "And my job is to provide a normal family."

GRAPHIC: Photos: FITTING IN -- Steven Lofton, left, and Roger Croteau, right, a gay couple seen in their living room in Oregon, have five foster children: from left, Ernie, Bert, Tracey, Frank and Wayne (horizontal). (Photo by Susan Seubert for The New York Times)(pg. F1); NEOFAMILY -- Bert, top left, at a Laurinda Spear Formica kitchen table; top right, Ernie, left, and Wayne (note the chair's tennis-ball feet); bottom left, a stairway to the master bedroom; bottom right, Frank lounges. (Photographs by Susan Seubert for The New York Times)(pg. F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOSTER CARE (91%); AIDS & HIV (90%); CHILDREN (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); ADOPTION (89%); CHILD WELFARE (89%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (78%); FAMILY SERVICES (78%); GAY PARENTING (78%); PARENTING (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); FAMILY (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); IMMUNITY (73%); CHILD ABUSE (73%); PEDIATRICS (73%); JURISDICTION (73%); LITIGATION (73%); THANKSGIVING (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); NURSES & NURSING (69%); SUPREME COURTS (68%) Adoptions; Suits and Litigation; Homosexuality; Foster Care; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT (56%)

PERSON: Steven Lofton; Roger Croteau; Fred A Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (88%) FLORIDA, USA (97%); OREGON, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Florida; Oregon; Portland (Ore)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003 



481 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
Duty Calls After Sept. 11, Straining Family Finances

BYLINE:  By ARTHUR BOVINO

 BODY:
A kidney on the verge of shutting down. A home on the verge of being lost. For Kenneth and Angelean Thomas, the last few years have been one ordeal after another.
 But after 27 years of marriage, the Thomases are not about to be shaken by failing health, late paychecks, late rent or even a threat of eviction. 
 Mr. Thomas, 48, is a janitor in Harlem for Head Start, a federally funded, community-based child development program, and earns $23,000 a year. Mrs. Thomas, 53, used to work at a temp agency.
Together, they have forged a strong and stable home life. They have lived in the same apartment in the Bronx for 10 years. They have raised six children; Kenneth Jr., 14, still lives at home.
But stability has not always been easy to come by. In 1996, Mrs. Thomas was found to have end-stage renal disease, and she left her job to focus on her health.
Now, she undergoes dialysis three times a week, a process that she says "really drains you." She receives $556 in Social Security disability a month, and Medicare pays for the dialysis.
Characteristically, the Thomases have tried to focus on the positive.
"God has been good to us," Mr. Thomas said. "Because I have a job that has a split shift, during my work break I can take her to the hospital."
Mr. Thomas credits his experience in a youth cadet program for leading him down the right path in life.
"It teaches discipline and respect," he said. "They taught you how to be a man, especially being raised in the ghetto. There are a lot of obstacles that will get you in the street, and they kept you clean and out of trouble."
The experience inspired him to join the New York Guard in 1993; he is now a staff sergeant. "I've always wanted to give back to my community and my country," he said.
But a call to serve after the Sept. 11 terrorist attack gave rise to the Thomases' other major challenge: keeping a roof over their heads. On that day, Mr. Thomas was activated, and he worked 12-hour shifts four to five days a week at the 369th Armory in Harlem, checking trucks and verifying identifications of military personnel.
"When you're called, you have to go, so I left the job," he said. "I thought at the time that I would still be getting paid from the job. Most people do when you're in the service."
But Mr. Thomas was a temporary employee. Three weeks into his seven-week service, he learned that he would not be getting his regular paychecks. He was making $100 a day as a staff sergeant, but, he said, "the military pay was sort of late."
Such a complication was something he knew he had to expect with the chaos of Sept. 11.
But then it was compounded by a turn in Mrs. Thomas's health about the same time. She needed surgery to inflate the veins that had been stressed by the dialysis over the years. With the delay in the military pay, the Thomases soon found themselves three months behind on their rent.
"We could ask our children for money," Mr. Thomas said. "But they have their own families. I felt I'd struggle until I could get it myself."
One weekend in November 2001, Mr. Thomas was watching television and saw David R. Jones, the president and chief executive of the Community Service Society, one of seven charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. Mr. Jones was speaking about the economy in the aftermath of the terrorist attack.
"He was saying working people were having trouble paying bills," Mr. Thomas said.
So he called the society hoping that he and his family might find some help. They met their caseworker, Billy Carmon.
"He was in the process of being evicted," Mr. Carmon said. "I felt I had to do what I could to help him move on with his life."
Mr. Carmon secured $1,888.05 of Neediest Cases money to pay the back rent and fend off an eviction.
"I can tell you it was a godsend," Mr. Thomas said. "We call it a miracle. We didn't know what to do or how we were going to do it."
In fact, the Thomases' luck may be changing, and there may be another miracle around the bend. Recently, all of the couple's children had their blood tested for compatibility with their mother's. The oldest daughter, Daphne, 34, volunteered to give her mother a kidney. They hope to do the operation soon.
Meanwhile, for all their setbacks, the family continues to hold fast to the dream of one day buying their own house.
But Mr. Thomas said they would not forget the help they received from the Neediest Cases Fund. "When I get back on my feet," he said, "I will contribute to the Community Service Society."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $2,451,793.90
Recorded Tuesday; 36,295.00

Total: $2,488,088.90
Last year to date: $2,758,009.00

GRAPHIC: Photo: Angelean and Kenneth Thomas averted eviction from their Bronx apartment with help from The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. (Photo by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); DIALYSIS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (88%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (87%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (77%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (75%); KIDNEY DISEASE (73%); CHRONIC DISEASES (68%); SOCIAL SECURITY (67%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (67%); MEDICARE (66%); DEFENSE SPENDING (64%); TERRORISM (61%); ARMED FORCES (60%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (56%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (55%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

ORGANIZATION: Community Service Society of NY

PERSON: Arthur Bovino

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003 



482 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: THE GROUND ZERO MEMORIAL: THE COMPETITION; 
Presenting Several Versions of the Shape of Grief and Recollection

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
Eight possible memorials at the World Trade Center site, each deferring in some way to the ghosts of the twin towers, were shown to the nation yesterday.
 The plans, chosen by a 13-member jury for the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, did not come from the hands of celebrated architects but rather a diverse group of designers, many of them young, who live in and work in Brooklyn, Manhattan, Chicago, Houston, Paris, Ithaca, N.Y., and Oakland, Calif. 
 Most designs followed the lead of Daniel Libeskind's overall plan by depressing some or all of the memorial area that has been set aside at the southwest corner of the trade center site. Some expressed the presence of the towers as voids. Others turned the building footprints into islands, waterfalls, pavilions, sanctuaries and even small prairies. 
As one of the most keenly anticipated events in the redevelopment of Lower Manhattan, the unveiling drew dozens of victims' relatives and firefighters in their bunker coats. They mingled with officials, civic leaders, architects and reporters among eight models set up on pedestals in a semicircular gallery at the Winter Garden in Battery Park City.
The unveiling also drew Vartan Gregorian, the chairman of the jury and president of the Carnegie Corporation of New York. He broke a long public silence to introduce the eight plans that the panel culled from 5,201 submissions in the hope of finding "a design that will begin to repair both the wounded cityscape and our wounded souls."
Until now, the process had been kept secret, in part to insulate jurors from politics, pressure groups and public relations. The entrants were not present yesterday and are still barred from talkingto reporters.
The jury must narrow the choice to first- , second- and third-place finalists, which could happen by the end of the year. Under the competition guidelines, if the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation and the winners are "unable to reach an agreement" about development details, the corporation will open negotiations with the other finalists.
Even the winning design is likely to change before construction is begun. Dr. Gregorian said the jury would seek refinements in "how the names of each of the victims should be recognized, how to respect the tower footprints and keep them unencumbered, how to provide access to bedrock, and what the relationship of the memorial will be to the site's interpretive museum."
Until a winner is chosen, the finalists will be on display at the Winter Garden, the glass-roofed centerpiece of the World Financial Center, directly across West Street from the trade center site. It is open from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. daily. The plans are also at www.wtcsitememorial.org. Eventually, all 5,201 submissions will go on public display, at the jurors' request.
There will be no formal public comment period, although the Municipal Art Society and the Civic Alliance to Rebuild Downtown New York are conducting three public meetings today, tomorrow and Saturday (www.imaginenewyork.org). The results of those meetings will be summarized and presented to jury members.
In any case, such a well-connected jury -- it includes the designer Maya Lin and Deputy Mayor Patricia E. Harris -- cannot possibly avoid hearing what will certainly be a lively, if not stormy, civic debate.
On first impression, the plans all seem to have been shaped by the implicit impression of the twin towers, whose absence is still the most remarkable thing about the Lower Manhattan skyline. Their outlines are seen in every design.
As such, the designs tend to look downward, some as far as bedrock. Many are organized around subterranean or covered spaces and chambers. There are few elements in any plan much higher above sidewalk level than a treetop.
"They strive neither to overwhelm the visitor nor their immediate surroundings," Dr. Gregorian said. "They aspire to soar -- not by competing with the soaring skyline of New York but rather by creating spaces that strive to reconcile vertical and horizontal, green and concrete, contemplation and inspiration.
"They allow for the change of seasons, passage of years and evolution over time. They emphasize the process of memorialization over their own grandeur and present themselves as living landscapes of living memory that both connect us to our past and carry us forward into the decades ahead."
The memorial is intended to remember the people and events of Feb. 26, 1993, when the trade center was bombed, and Sept. 11, 2001, when the twin towers were destroyed and the Pentagon badly damaged by three hijacked jetliners, as a fourth hijacked airplane crashed in Pennsylvania.
Six plans closely follow Mr. Libeskind's architectural outline, which calls for a museum wing bridging over the footprint of the north tower and another wing cantilevered over the footprint of the south tower.
Asked yesterday whether any or all of the designs fit his own vision of the site, Mr. Libeskind answered diplomatically, "I think the jury will have to make that decision."
It was Mr. Libeskind's Memory Foundations plan of December 2002 that awakened the possibility of setting the memorial on bedrock, 70 feet below ground, framed in part by the surviving foundation walls of the trade center. He has since modified his plan to a 30-foot depression.
But the issue of connecting the memorial to bedrock is potent and emotional.
Although the guidelines instructed the designers only to "make visible the footprints," Kevin M. Rampe, the president of the development corporation, seemed to go further than that yesterday when he said that "no matter which plan is chosen, the L.M.D.C. will ensure that bedrock can be accessed at each of the tower footprints."
Some access has been designed into Passages of Light: The Memorial Cloud, which leaves the footprints empty and creates an enclosed space between them with an undulating roof made of translucent tubes.
The footprints would become enclosed sanctuaries in the plan Votives in Suspension, punctuated by a light for each victim, suspended by cable over a reflecting pool. In Lower Waters, a granite-clad memorial space would fill the north footprint, with a grove of trees in the south.
Sugar maples would fill the south tower footprint in Dual Memory, with a pavilion in the north. Garden of Lights would establish an orchard in the space between the footprints, which would be set aside as small prairies.
Inversion of Light would include perhaps the most literal recollection of the twin towers by reproducing a floor plan based on those of the 94th and 95th floors in the north footprint. In the south footprint would be a pond.
In Reflecting Absence, both footprints would be turned into 30-foot-deep reflective pools, edged with curtains of falling water. This proposal offers the most radical departure from Mr. Libeskind's plan by proposing to situate the cultural building along West Street as a barrier to the highway.
Reversing that arrangement, Suspending Memory would make a pool out of the entire site except the footprints, which would become garden islands, joined by a bridge, with small glass columns representing each life lost.
While almost everyone around him was dissecting individual plans, Albert Capsouto, the proprietor of the restaurant Capsouto Freres in TriBeCa, took a moment to discuss the impact of the competition on the Lower Manhattan community.
"Our biggest enemy is inaction," he said. "When you have a presentation that tries to pull it together -- and they have pulled it together -- that gives us optimism. And optimism is fuel for healing.
"There's going to be something there again."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vartan Gregorian, left, chairman of the jury, and John C. Whitehead, chairman of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation.; Larry A. Silverstein, left, the commercial leaseholder of the site, examining models for the ground zero memorial designs yesterday. (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times) Map of New York highlighting Ground Zero Memorial site boundary: The eight designs are on display in the Winter Garden.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CELEBRITIES (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); TERRORISM (68%); FOUNDATIONS (66%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (64%) Terrorism; Monuments and Memorials; World Trade Center (NYC); Winter Garden (Battery Park City)

ORGANIZATION: CARNEGIE CORPORATION OF NEW YORK (55%)

PERSON: David W Dunlap; Daniel Libeskind

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003 



483 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL; 
Delay in YankeeNets Breakup Makes Bidders for Nets Wait

BYLINE:  By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
A meeting of the YankeeNets board, at which four bids to acquire the Nets were to be presented, was postponed yesterday because a long-awaited agreement to split up the YankeeNets was not completed in time, two officials involved in the transactions said.
 The meeting could be rescheduled quickly upon the resolution of outstanding issues in the separation. Completion of the corporate divorce was believed to be close, the officials said. 
 It has become a priority within YankeeNets to separate the Yankees and the Nets cleanly, through a stock swap, before the basketball team is sold. The sale of the Nets and the breakup of the holding company created by the teams in 1999 have moved on parallel tracks recently.
Leading to the breakup is friction between the teams' owners, hefty losses incurred by the Nets and the belief that the chief reason they merged (the creation of the YES Network) had been achieved.
Whenever the board meeting does take place, the YankeeNets' investment bankers will recommend which of the four offers should be singled out for further negotiations.
The roster of potential buyers has been set for more than a week. But the lineup has changed because the developer Charles Kushner and Senator Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey raised their offer on Tuesday to $267.5 million from $250 million, leapfrogging bids by Stuart D. Feldman, a venture capitalist ($257.5 million), and Charles B. Wang, the co-owner of the Islanders ($265 million).
The increase in the Corzine-Kushner bid indicated that the partners felt they had to be more competitive, and it could prompt others to raise their offers to become one of the top two suitors before the YankeeNets board meets. The leading bidder remains Bruce C. Ratner, at $275 million, who wants to move the team to an arena that would be designed by Frank Gehry in Ratner's downtown Brooklyn development.
Ratner and Wang are the only bidders who are known to want to relocate the Nets from New Jersey. (Feldman's intentions are unknown.) In each case, local governments are contemplating using new or additional revenue they would receive from arena parking, taxes on tickets, sales and income, naming rights and other sources to help pay the debt on bonds.
Daniel L. Doctoroff, New York City's deputy mayor for economic development, said the city and state had held what he described as encouraging discussions with Ratner about using some or all of the revenue to finance a "modest percentage" of the cost of an arena, which is likely to be $400 million or more.
"The standard is that we have to believe that it will be a net positive for the city," Doctoroff said.
Peter Sylver, deputy county executive for economic development in Nassau County, said it was studying the financing of a new arena to replace Nassau Coliseum and house the Islanders and the Nets, if Wang were to be the winning bidder.
"But right now, to be honest, we don't have a construction budget," Sylver said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); RELOCATIONS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); COUNTIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (67%); TICKET SALES (60%); HOLDING COMPANIES (55%) 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (94%) New Jersey Nets; Yankeenets

PERSON: JON CORZINE (52%) Richard Sandomir

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2003 



484 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 4655 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by Times critics of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. At many museums, children under 12 and members are admitted free. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free unless noted. * denotes a highly recommended show.

Art Fairs

ART OF THE 20TH CENTURY, Seventh Regiment Armory, Park Avenue at 67th Street, (212) 777-5218, through Monday. After its uncertain start last year, it will be interesting to see how this new art fair, devoted to the recently completed century, matures. Some 60 dealers from Europe and the Americas are presenting 20th-century paintings, drawings, sculpture, photographs and prints. Promised highlights include works by Arshile Gorky, Alice Neel, Jean Arp and Lyonel Feininger, and there are sure, as well, to be works by Picasso, Matisse, Romare Beardon and many other textbook names. Hours: today, noon to 7 p.m.; tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Sunday, noon to 7 p.m.; Monday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $15 (Ken Johnson).

"CONNOISSEUR'S ANTIQUES FAIR," Gramercy Park Armory, Lexington Avenue at 26th Street, (212) 532-1516, through Sunday. This new arrival on the antiques fair scene, now in its second year, will bring 51 dealers, mostly from New York and Connecticut, to New York City's most intimate armory. Expect to see plenty of American, English and Continental furniture, Asian art, textiles, porcelains and ceramics. Keep an eye out for a booth featuring 10 Chippendale chairs. An added attraction is "The New Face of Academic Art," an exhibition of 22 works from the collection of the Dahesh Museum. Hours: today, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.; tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Sunday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $15 (Roberta Smith).

Museums

* LOTHAR BAUMGARTEN, "Origin of the Night: Amazon Cosmos," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3600, through Nov. 30. The first New York screening of this overlong but mesmerizing film from the late 1970's offers another piece of the expanding puzzle of post-Minimalism. Up close and impersonal, it explores a busy day in the life of an Amazon tributary, offering close-ups of flora, fauna and shimmering water accompanied by written and spoken words and a marvelous musical soundtrack. Inspired by an ancient creation narrative, it is mostly a lyrical meditation on the facts of film, nature and language and the erosion of the wilderness by industrial progress. And as its setting is really a trashy swamp somewhere in Germany, it establishes Mr. Baumgarten's importance to 1980's setup photography. Hours: Wednesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $12; students and 62+, $9.50 (Smith).

* "TRISHA BROWN: DANCE AND ART IN DIALOGUE, 1961-2001," New Museum of Contemporary Art, 583 Broadway, between Prince and Houston Streets, SoHo, (212) 219-1222, through Jan. 25. Ms. Brown's 40-odd years of innovative dance creation and performance brought about some memorable collaborations with painters, sculptors and musicians, among them Robert Rauschenberg, Donald Judd, Nancy Graves, Fujiko Nakaya, John Cage and Laurie Anderson. The dance pieces are vividly conveyed here by means of video and sound installations, still photographs, costumes, props, music, diagrams, sculptures, paintings and drawings that graphically demonstrate how Ms. Brown's boldly eccentric choreography has been enhanced by her friends from other disciplines. She has contributed a pair of intricate drawings recently made by putting charcoal between her toes as she danced on large sheets of paper. It's not easy to translate the dynamics of dance into a museum environment, but this vibrant show works diligently to revivify the experience. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays, to 8 p.m. Admission: $6; students, artists and 65+, $3 (Grace Glueck).

"THE DRAWINGS OF FRANCOIS BOUCHER," Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, through Dec. 14. One of the three giants of the French Rococo (with Watteau and Fragonard), Boucher is known for his sweetly erotic fantasy painting. This selection of about 75 drawings includes some sexy nudes, but its main purpose is to document the artist's extraordinary virtuosity in various drawing media and in diverse kinds of picture-making: landscape, architectural rendering, genre scenes, pastoral idylls, mythic extravaganzas, portraits and more. Boucher had a conventional imagination and not much interest in the real world, but he was a formidable technician. It was the activity of drawing itself that most turned him on. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, and Saturdays, 10 a.m to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 6 p.m. Admission: $12; students and 62+, $5 (Johnson)

* "EL GRECO," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710, through Jan. 11. The world is full of second-class El Grecos, but they are not in this first-class show. The portraits are fresh, true to life and understated. Elsewhere, El Greco emotes. The pitch hardly varies or drops. It's no wonder people tend to fall in love with him when they are young. Modern artists especially love him, as if he were a protomodernist. As the Belgian painter Luc Tuymans says of El Greco's work: "Everything goes upward. That's its mystical meaning. It's about the evaporation of material life." The show is also gorgeously installed. Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, to 9 p.m. Admission: $12; students and 65+, $7 (Michael Kimmelman).

* "PHILIP GUSTON," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710, through Jan. 4. A handsome, eloquent retrospective. Even now the late pictures, from the 1970's, have a shock value nearly unsurpassed in recent art. Guston let loose the demons and out they tumbled, like clowns from a Volkswagen. But in crucial ways, as this show demonstrates, Guston's work didn't change as much as people first thought. The transitional decade leading up to the late work may be Guston's most fascinating and underrated: soulful abstractions that have the rough, barely muffled anger of raised voices approaching from the other side of a closed door. Then the door bursts open. Just before he died in 1980, Guston painted a sweet, pathetic head, like a bandaged Olmec rock, gazing dubiously up a rubbly hill. It is his self-portrait as Sisyphus: the artist, an eternal pessimist, hoping against hope, awaits the avalanche that we can't yet see tumbling toward him. Hours and admission: See above (Kimmelman).

* "HUNT FOR PARADISE: COURT ARTS OF IRAN, 1501-1576," Asia Society, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400, through Jan. 18. Islam is constantly in the news now, but exhibitions of Islamic art are rare. This international loan show, of exceptional beauty, features objects from the Safavid dynasty, which began as a Sufi order and ended up ruling an empire. In the process, it developed an exquisite court art, which is sampled here. Included are pages from the great Book of Kings painted for Shah Tahmasp, a famous carpet from the Poldi Pezzoli Museum in Milan and an even more beautiful one from Boston. The piece de resistance is a glorious mint-condition silk applique hanging, hidden away in Hungary and being exhibited for the first time in nearly a century. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays to 9 p.m. Admission: $7; students and 65+, $5 (Holland Cotter).

* PIERRE HUYGHE, "Streamside Day Follies," Dia:Chelsea, 548 West 22nd Street, (212) 989-5566, through Jan. 11. From an often brilliant French artist, a flawed installation piece involving moving walls that gently herd visitors into a makeshift theater (the good part) to watch a video (not so good) about the homey, slightly forlorn celebration of a new housing development. The piece exemplifies the way that the political correctness of the early 1990's has adopted a sheep's clothing that combines pop-culture seductiveness, of-the-people folksiness and amorphous sociological musings while remaining essentially arcane, controlling and even puritanical. But the dance of the walls, which can bring to mind circus elephants, is worth seeing. Consider it a metaphor for destruction of the white cube of modernism by the postmodernist black box of video-viewing. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $6; $3, children, students and 60+ (Smith).

* "THE JEWISH JOURNEY: FREDERIC BRENNER'S PHOTOGRAPHIC ODYSSEY," Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, through Jan. 11. Following the tangled trails of the Jewish diaspora over 25 years in more than 40 countries, the French photographer Frederic Brenner has photographed factory workers in Birobidzhan, Russia; sellers of Christian souvenirs in St. Peter's Square; village women in the mountains of Ethiopia; a wealthy merchant of Calcutta; and countless other examples of Jews who have developed roots in countries around the world. His intent, he writes, was "to document these permutations of survival in exile before they disappeared," and what he found inevitably poses the questions, what is a Jew and who are "the Jews"? Stereotypes tend to be dispelled by those who pass before his camera. The superb quality of his photographs, not only in their conception and composition but also in their technical finish, makes this a show that demands a visit. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. (until 11 p.m. the first Saturday of each month). Admission: $6; students and 62+, $3 (Glueck).

* "JAMES ROSENQUIST: A RETROSPECTIVE," Guggenheim Museum, Fifth Avenue at 88th Street, (212) 423-3500, through Jan. 25. Notwithstanding the enormous size of many of his paintings, Mr. Rosenquist is a haiku master of the American psyche. Intermittently great, his show is spaciously installed but too big. He is an uneven genius. The early works look as good as ever. His lesser-known forays into sculpture and mixed media, a selling point for the show, don't serve him well here. Invaluable are the collages on which he based many paintings, tools of his trade that demonstrate his process of constructing a work, which, contrary to what you might think, is not mechanical but intuitive. Some of the recent works, with their confetti entanglements of cosmic scenery, fish and flowers, technically adept and erratically magnificent, have something of the psychedelic look of 60's commercial art. They can seem dated in a way the classic paintings refuse to be. A different possibility is that, as before, it will take time to catch up with Mr. Rosenquist, who still has a restless imagination, huge energy and an uncanny knack for spotting how two unlikely things go together. Hours: Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $12; students and 65+, $8 (Kimmelman).

* SCHOENBERG, KANDINSKY AND THE BLUE RIDER, Jewish Museum, 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, through Feb. 12. Did Arnold Schoenberg's controversial atonal music help Wassily Kandinsky break through to what he called "pure painting" in works like "Sketch for Composition V" from 1911? Perhaps. With paintings, musical scores, concert programs and photographs, this exhibition explores the mostly long-distance friendship between two giants of the early 20th-century avant-garde, and also includes works by other painters in Kandinsky's art collective, the Blue Rider (a fabulous landscape by Gabriele Munter, for example). But its visual coherence comes mostly from Schoenberg's aberrant lugubrious little paintings -- mostly self-portraits that are variously outsiderish, semiabstract or conventionally representational. They flit in and out of the more stringently Modernist efforts like double agents, lagging behind, then zooming ahead, and have an inadvertent radicality that still astounds. Hours: Sundays through Wednesdays, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Thursdays, to 8 p.m.; Fridays, to 3 p.m. Admission: $10; students and 65+, $7.50 (Smith).

* "STRANGERS: THE FIRST I.C.P. TRIENNIAL OF PHOTOGRAPHY AND VIDEO," International Center of Photography, 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0090, through Nov. 30. Not that anyone except the curators felt there was a pressing need for yet another art survey, but the center's first triennial is that rare case: an instructive, topical show. The theme, strangers, is nebulous enough to be a catchall for different brands of photography and video (works by Luc Delahaye, Rineke Dijkstra, Collier Schorr and Susan Meiselas, among others). Not many of these are discoveries, but the range is wide enough to accommodate the dissimilar tastes of the four curators and the diversity of photographic work being made today. The title is also specific enough to mean something. After 9/11 the subject of strangers has gained traction, and most of what's here expresses a cautionary view that the world is full of people who are strangers to one another. You might say that after years of navel-gazing, the climate of photo-based art, as this show presents it, has gradually shifted from me to them. Hours and admission: Tuesdays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, to 6 p.m. Admission: $10; students and 62+, $7 (Kimmelman).

* "TURNING POINT: ORIBE AND THE ARTS OF 16TH-CENTURY JAPAN," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710, through Jan. 11. A tsunami in a tea bowl; that was Japan in the late 16th century. The social and political tempests were very real. So were the tea bowls, funky, wild-style, fanatically valued little things that distilled the self-image of the Momoyama (1573-1615) period. This carefully shaped show of modest-size objects focuses on one of the era's most dynamic figures, the warrior and cultural arbiter Furuta Oribe, who directly or indirectly had a catalytic effect on art, particularly art associated with that most sacramental of all intimate social events, the tea ceremony. The show has dozens of funky-beautiful ceramic tea vessels in the squashed, pulled and racked Oribe style, along with resplendent genre paintings and textiles. Several objects will be rotated out, and new ones added, on Dec. 3. Hours and admission: See above (Cotter).

* "UNREPENTANT EGO: THE SELF-PORTRAITS OF LUCAS SAMARAS," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3600, through Feb. 8. The alternately dark and ecstatic, mostly flaming rainbow coalition of personae that Mr. Samaras has pulled out of himself over the last 45 years is everywhere apparent in this sprawling yet sharply focused show. It pays tribute to his prodigious, highly disciplined self-absorption with some 300 works: dozens of his glittering, menacing box sculptures; his velvety early pastels; his still astounding Polaroids. Also on view is a little-seen film, "Self" from 1969; it displays in close-up his obsessive, home-alone artistic process and his continuous sifting and mixing of motifs and mediums. He is an alchemist of the first order, a claustrophiliac with a genius for filling small spaces with psychic and visual refractions. He was also making the new gay art before there was such a thing. From just about every angle -- identity, craft, performance -- this is an engrossing, timely show. Hours and admission: See above (Smith).

Galleries: 57th Street

GARY BASEMAN, "Happy Idiot: And Other Paintings About Unattainable Beauty," Earl McGrath, 20 West 57th Street, (212) 956-3366, through Nov. 29. Mr. Baseman's funky cartoon paintings are funny, weird, touching and made with economical panache. In desolate, often flooded landscapes, mermaids, skeletons, snowmen, snakes, animated ice cream cones and all sorts of unidentifiable demons act out manic dramas of sexual longing, bemusement, abjection, terror and mystic revelation (Johnson).

ERIC FISCHL, "Krefeld Project: Studies," Mary Boone, 745 Fifth Avenue, (212) 752-2929, through Dec. 20. The digitally processed photographs in this show were the basis for a recent series of paintings: images of a man and a woman, apparently prosperous art collectors, lounging around their luxurious modern home in various states of undress. In fact, the photographs were staged using models and a Mies van der Rohe house that is now a museum in Krefeld, Germany. The photographs exude a creepy cinematic allure (Johnson).

DONALD JUDD, Anthony Grant, 37 West 57th Street, (212) 755-0434, through Jan. 10. This small gem of a show presents five sculptures dating from 1964 to 1989 and a series of working drawings for various sculptures. Judd didn't like being called a Minimalist and rightfully so: his geometrical permutations and his surfaces of rusted or polished metal and richly colored lacquers add up to objects of riveting abstract complexity, sensuous beauty and iconic mystery (Johnson).

* "AD REINHARDT AND CONTEMPORARIES: 1940-50," Barbara Mathes, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 725-5135, through Dec. 20. Gallery shows of Reinhardt are not an everyday event, which is reason enough to put this one on your things-to-do list. The paintings, most of them from the 1940's, are evidence of an artist in the throes of experimentation. The beautiful little "Yellow Variations" (1941) finds him working in a gestural, turgid Cubist-Expressionist vein. Two years later, this turns into a cool, crisp, gloom-free Stuart Davisesque composition in bleached beiges and pinks. The style-hopping is still in progress in the 1950's tangle of colors reminiscent of Guston's abstract paintings. As a bonus, there is brace of works by contemporaries, including Davis, Gorky and de Kooning (Cotter).

AKIO TAKAMORI, "Omnipotent," Garth Clark, 24 West 57th Street, (212) 246-2205, through Dec. 6. East meets West in ceramic figurative sculpture by an artist who was born in Japan but has lived in the United States for almost 30 years. Loosely painted in dry blacks and grays, the large stoneware sculptures of women, based on traditional Tang figures, are voluptuously rounded and graceful; the sculptures of women in elaborate dresses, derived from paintings by Velazquez and Goya, look stiff and curiously anxious (Johnson).

Galleries: SoHo

PHILIP GUSTON, BRUCE NAUMAN, RAYMOND PETTIBON, Brooke Alexander, 59 Wooster Street, (212) 925-4338, through Dec. 21. Converging from three directions -- Abstract Expressionism, Process Art and California Pop -- three artists arrive at a zone of mordant existentialism. Consisting almost entirely of black-and-white prints, the exhibition sets up an absorbing, triangular conversation among Guston's studio nightmares, Mr. Nauman's harsh wordplay and Mr. Pettibon's mix of hare-brained erudition and comic-book illustration (Johnson).

Galleries: Chelsea

MARK DI SUVERO, Paula Cooper, 534 West 21st Street, (212) 255-1105, through Nov. 29. This show features two sculptures by the heavy-metal Constructivist, one huge and one moderately massive. The giant one, titled "XV," is a 1971 assemblage of six enormous, rusty I-beams leaning together in a precarious-looking structure that tops off at almost 22 feet. "Hopesoup," from 1990, is an assemblage of salvaged industrial parts, some of which ponderously revolve on spindles if you give them a push (Johnson).

VINCENT GEYSKENS, "Intrusion and Separation," Thomas Erben, 516 West 20th Street, (212) 645-8701, through Dec. 6. This young Belgian artist makes suavely dissonant paintings with a philosophical edge. The imagery -- exotic dancers, still lifes, dark, empty interiors and pure abstractions -- is vaguely dreadful. But the way he shifts stylistic gears from one picture to another, from crusty Cubism to viscous Expressionism to dry Minimalism, makes his project mainly an inquiry into the nature of painting itself (Johnson).

HOWARD HODGKIN, Gagosian, 555 West 24th Street, (212) 741-1111, through Dec. 20. The much venerated British artist paints with wide brushes and colors that range from muddy greens to gaudy pinks, oranges and turquoise. As usual he paints over old frames and panels, working from laptop to Abstract Expressionist scale. Boxed in by wide strokes that simultaneously obliterate and emphasize the frame, interior parts read as broadly abstracted landscapes, sunsets or rooms. Mr. Hodgkin's romantic exuberance is infectious (Johnson).

ISAAC JULIEN, "Baltimore," Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street, (212) 206-7100, through Dec. 14. "Baltimore," a short film projected on three adjoining screens, is partly a pastiche of 1970's blaxpoitation cinema and partly a surrealistic allegory about race, class and history. It follows a man -- played by the actor and director Melvin Van Peebles -- and a woman in a mysterious cat-and-mouse game that takes them through a variety of museum galleries. There are moments of lyrical beauty, but the whole is weighed down by academic didacticism (Johnson).

TRACY MILLER and "FRIGHTWIG," Feature, 530 West 25th Street, (212) 675-7772, through Dec. 19. Ms. Miller paints crusty, all-over cornucopias of food imagery -- lobsters, beer cans, pies, cakes, fruit and so on -- with a connective tissue of playful, more or less abstract painterly mark-making. In the backroom, "Frightwig," a belated Halloween show, includes a scary paper wraith by Tom Friedman; a magical pipe-cleaner floor sculpture by Lucky DeBellevue; a small, mysterious boy's face drawn by Jerry Phillips; and what looks like a brain on stilts, painted by Kevin Wolff (Johnson).

CHUCK NANNEY, "More Songs About Sex and Death," Debs & Co., 525 West 26th Street, (212) 643-2070, through Nov. 29. "Old Sparky," a child-size electric chair neatly made of corrugated cardboard; a Russian doll in a Mexican wrestling mask; Manson-murders graffiti spelled out in the typeface used on suburban mailboxes; layered word drawings; cheerful abstract watercolors; and a colorful lineup of 101 painted wooden dowels: all this bespeaks a mind uncommonly alive to the aesthetic and sociological vicissitudes of modern American culture (Johnson).

Other Galleries

SARAH BRAMAN AND BRIAN BELOTT, Canada, 55 Chrystie Street, Lower East Side, (212) 925-4631, through Nov. 30. These artists were made for each other and for this moment of psychedelically flavored, busywork formalism in art. Ms. Braman's abstract geometric sculpures are like giant crystals in formation, one constructed from painted cardboard, the other from plexiglass. Mr. Bellot's collages fill the gallery walls. Most are paper-on-paper using clips from magazines, food wrappers, cartoons and children's books, with the occasional addition of paint, fabric and kitty litter. The ingredients join to create dreamlike landscapes, part fairy tale, part science fiction, though a little too weird to be utopian (Cotter).

* "EVERYTHING MATTERS: PAUL KOS, A RETROSPECTIVE," Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, through Dec. 6. Mr. Kos's name rings too few bells here. He helped germinate the Bay Area Conceptual movement that pioneered video, performance and installation art in the late 1960's and early 70's. The spirit of his work is lighthearted and sly. One of his best early videos, from 1974, was shot in Wyoming: "Pilot Butte/Pilot Light" switches back and forth between that butte and Mr. Kos fashioning a lens out of a block of ice (you see him spinning the block on the inside of the lid of a pot to get the proper curvature), then focusing sunlight through the ice to spark kindling. The constant is Mr. Kos's catholic approach to materials. He balances a candle and a bell on the tip of a broomstick, which he discovered one day would stand up on its own if he jammed the business end of the broom against the floor just right. Better late than never to remind New Yorkers that some of what we take to be fresh has been going on for a long time elsewhere (Kimmelman).

* "THE INVISIBLE THREAD: BUDDHIST SPIRIT IN CONTEMPORARY ART," Newhouse Center for Contemporary Art at Snug Harbor Cultural Center, 1000 Richmond Terrace, Staten Island, (718) 448-2500, through Feb. 29. "Everyone Gets Lighter" is the good-news message on a billboard across the street from the Snug Harbor Cultural Center. The words, by the New York poet John Giorno, serve as introduction to "The Invisible Thread," and after seeing the show, you may indeed feel a bit lifted up. Conceived as the centerpiece of a yearlong multi-institutional series of events called "The Buddhism Project," it brings together 50 contemporary artists, some practicing Buddhists, some not, to distill the Buddhist spirit of the title, an essence as elusive, but as complex and distinctive, as the scent of incense (Cotter).

"MEMORY AND DISAPPEARANCE: RECENT THAI ART," Momenta Art, 72 Berry Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 218-8058, through Dec. 1. New art from Thailand, where a very interesting contemporary art scene is bubbling away, has been the subject of a few New York shows recently. This one does its modest share to further fill out the picture, with a quartet of artists, each caught in a double-bind position of resisting traditional culture and deeply mistrusting what is replacing it (Cotter).

Last Chance

VINCENT LONGO, "Reflections on Abstraction," Hunter College Times Square Gallery, 450 West 41st Street, (212) 772-4991, through tomorrow. A five-decade 160-painting retrospective celebrates Mr. Longo's retirement after 35 years of teaching at Hunter College. Starting out under the influence of Abstract Expressionism, Mr. Longo turned to the grid and never looked back. His evolutionary exploration of the tactile, optical and spiritual possibilities is consistently engaging all the way through (Johnson).

* JIM NUTT, Nolan/Eckman, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 925-6190, through Wednesday. The dean of Chicago Imagism delivers once again. This exhibition includes three beautiful laptop-scale paintings of imaginary women who seem, despite Cubist distortions, uncannily alive. Painted with exquisite care in tiny brush strokes, the women exude a haunting maternal warmth but also seem a little crazy. Each of a dozen graphite portraits is a marvel of linear delicacy, exactitude and invention (Johnson).

GABRIEL OROZCO, Marian Goodman, 24 West 57th Street, (212) 977-7160, through tomorrow. As usual, this sly Mexican artist achieves maximum visual elegance with a minimum of effort and not much in the way of material, while also rifling through the conventions of Process Art and Arte Povera. Polyurethane foam and wire screening are the materials here, and the opening gambit -- a large gallery that resembles an aquarium full of large, slightly abstracted fish -- is magical, even if it also creates the feeling of having time-traveled back to Lynda Benglis's studio in 1969. The rest mostly offers too much work too casually made (Smith).

JOHN WILLENBECHER, "Finding the Given," exhibition hallway of Mina Rees Library, Graduate Center, City University of New York, 365 Fifth Avenue, at 34th Street, (212) 817-7177, through tomorrow. Since the 1980's Mr. Willenbecher has devoted himself to paintings rather than sculpture, and the more than 50 abstract acrylics on wooden panels here exemplify his successful search for a takeoff point that he calls a "given," a more or less happenstance situation like flipping paint from a loaded brush onto a surface. These marbleized compositions of dots, splotches, veins, pools, bursts and trickles of variegated color, are quite lovely. Despite the partial "chance" derivation, their delicate tonal balances seem well planned. Especially appealing is a small group whose colors are confined to black, gray and white (Glueck).

GRAPHIC: Photos: An untitled 1948 painting by Ad Reinhardt, at the Barbara Mathes Gallery on East 57th Street. (Photo by Barbara Mathes Gallery); Guggenheim: James Rosenquist's "Welcome to the Water Planet." (Photo by James Rosenquist) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (91%); ART DEALERS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); ART COLLECTING (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (78%); PAINTING (78%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS (64%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (64%); MUSIC (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (54%); AMAZON RIVER (52%) UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); GERMANY (56%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003 



485 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Home for the Holidays? Thanks but No Thanks 

BYLINE:  By SARAH ROBERTSON 

 BODY:
FOR the last 30 years, James and Luise Pace have cooked Thanksgiving dinner for their family of eight at their Somers, Conn., home. So what are they doing this year? Flying to Prague for four days to hear classical music. "I get tired of having everyone over and then cleaning up afterward," said Mr. Pace, 57, who owns an auto-leasing company. "The way it's going, I might just leave on Christmas."
 Going to Grandma's house for Thanksgiving? Not unless she lives on St. Bart's, thanks. According to travel agencies and resorts, more and more people are going away for the Thanksgiving holiday -- and leaving the family behind. At British Airways, late-November bookings to London from Los Angeles are running almost twice last year's (and they are up 28 percent from New York), while resorts like the adults-only Auberge du Soleil in Rutherford, Calif., say that holiday reservations are up as much as 20 percent. 
 Gate 1 Travel, a travel agency that started offering Thanksgiving packages to places like Prague and Rio de Janeiro two years ago, has sold 7,000 of them this season, up from 2,000 last year. "This is one of those holidays that caught me by surprise," said Dani Pipano, the owner of Gate 1, which is based in Glenside, Pa. "It's been a huge product for us."
While some people may be taking the whole family with them for the holiday, hotels and travel consultants say that some of the strongest growth has come from people who are traveling without their loved ones. Two years after 9/11, "everyone has reconnected," said John Fareed, a senior vice president at Yesawich, Pepperdine, Brown & Russell, a travel marketing and research firm. "There's a lot less pressure to do the family thing." 
Indeed, the adults-only Canoe Bay resort in northwest Wisconsin has "a lot of people who call and say they need to get away from the kids," according to Dan Dobrowolski, an owner of the hotel, whose rooms start at $290 a night. "They say, 'If I spend another minute with my mother-in-law I might get violent.' "
But skipping out on the family celebration is not always as easy as getting a good deal on a package to the Caribbean. Some people, like Rochelle Santiago, 36, an information technology analyst in Foster City, Calif., are so worried about offending their families that they move the celebration to a different date. She said she would be taking her parents out to dinner tomorrow -- and was still looking for a restaurant where they could have turkey -- so that she could spend the actual holiday in Paris with her boyfriend, guilt free. 
Then there are the people who take an even simpler route: lying. This Thanksgiving, Charla Caponi, a 29-year-old event manager in New York, is planning to go to Italy with a friend instead of to her family's annual get-together, which is in Toronto this year. But as far as her parents are concerned, she will be hard at work at her office. "I didn't want to have to deal with the guilt," Ms. Caponi said. "I'd rather go play hooky and have fun." (She said that she would visit her parents at Christmas, though.)
IN fact, the etiquette expert Peggy Post advises, all the angst may not be necessary. Bowing out of a family gathering is fine, as long as it is done thoughtfully and with as much advance warning as possible. "Change is hard for a lot of people," she said. "Do it early and talk it through. Sometimes it's good to broach the idea and see how it flies."
Besides, it may turn out that Mom and Dad are only too happy to hear you won't be making it back to the nest -- since traveling somewhere other than home on Thanksgiving can mean finding cheap airfares and hotel rooms, empty museums and easy-to-get tables at usually packed restaurants. After Bob and Kitty Davis's children told them they could not get home this year, the couple booked a week in Paris. "This was a week that unexpectedly opened up," said Mr. Davis, a lawyer in Washington. 
The Thanksgiving exodus is part of an uptick in the travel market, which has been hard hit by both 9/11 and the sluggish economy. According to a recent AAA survey, an estimated 36 million Americans will travel 50 miles or more from home this Thanksgiving, up 2.4 percent from last year; 4.6 million of them will travel by plane, up about 1 percent from 2002. The number of people leaving the children at home when they travel is growing, too. In 2003, 68 percent of leisure travelers said they had taken one or more trips in the previous year without their children, up four percentage points from the 2002 results, according to a survey done jointly by Yesawich, Pepperdine, Brown & Russell and Yankelovich Partners, another research company.
Not surprisingly, resorts and travel Web sites are hoping to encourage the trend, with special offers for travelers who skip the holiday at home, from a Thanksgiving red-lentil loaf at Kripalu, a Lenox, Mass., yoga center, to a fiesta at the Esperanza Resort in Cabo San Lucas, Mexico. The St. James's Club, an all-inclusive resort on the Caribbean island of St. Lucia, is promoting a "Ditch the In-Laws" package, with free meals for children and a second room at half price on stays starting at three days. And this year, for the first time, Site59, a travel packager, is offering "Just Skip Town This Thanksgiving" deals for long weekends in places like Miami and the Bahamas. As the Web site notes, "going home for the holidays for canned cranberry sauce and green bean casserole may not be everyone's ideal use of a four-day weekend."
Heather Whiles, 27, a Palm Beach, Fla., financial advisor, said that she thought skipping her family's elaborate Thanksgiving -- usually 50 people in attendance -- and going to London would be the perfect way to spend her holiday this year. She bought her ticket and made plans to stay with friends in England. Then she started thinking about the deep-fried turkey, mashed potatoes and lemon meringue pie being served at her cousin's house and, last week, she postponed her London plans and got a ticket for Boston. "I just decided I actually, really want to go home," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: NO FAMILY FEAST THIS YEAR -- Luise and James Pace of Somers, Conn., looked at Prague-related Web sites as they prepared for their Thanksgiving trip. Right, Charla Caponi of New York got ready for her holiday trip to Italy. (Photo by George Gutierrez for The New York Times); (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. F3) Drawing (Drawing by Christophe Niemann)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THANKSGIVING (92%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CHRISTMAS (78%); RESTAURANTS (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (62%) THANKSGIVING DAY; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: YPARTNERSHIP (65%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (65%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (65%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (65%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (65%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: ROBERTSON, SARAH 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003 



486 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: McGreevey Tells Local Officials There Are Too Many of Them 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY, Nov. 19 

 BODY:
Warning that escalating property taxes threaten to strangle New Jersey's economy and undermine its quality of life, Gov. James E. McGreevey challenged the state's municipal leaders on Thursday to reduce the size of local government by consolidating services and merging some small school districts.
 Speaking to a convention of local municipal officials, Mr. McGreevey said New Jersey had more local governments per capita than any other state and also spent more on school bureaucracy than any other state. The governor also bemoaned the state's bloated educational system, which has 172 school districts that have only one building and 23 that paidadministrators who operated no buildings. "This is ludicrous," he said. "It is wasteful and it is driving up property taxes every year." 
 For decades, elected officials, academics and government watchdogs have blamed New Jersey's labyrinth of local governments for the state's onerous property taxes and high cost of living, saying that the inefficient bureaucracy acted as a kind of welfare system for the politically connected. But it came as something of a surprise that Mr. McGreevey would raise the issue, quite bluntly, during his keynote address at the New Jersey League of Municipalities annual convention, attended by hundreds of local officials from across the state.
The governor's remarks included few specific proposals for combining the services of local governments or eliminating unnecessary school boards or municipalities, and even his supporters acknowledged that any such effort would meet with bitter political resistance in the communities and in the State Legislature. But he pledged to make the issue a major focus of the coming legislative session and signaled an attempt to insulate himself from Republican attacks on property taxes as his re-election campaign for 2005 draws closer.
In the years before Mr. McGreevey took power, Republicans enacted a series of property tax rebates, which the governor now blames for fueling the state's high debt and budget deficit. But Mr. McGreevey said that he would not seek to lower property taxes by increasing borrowing or by raising other taxes, and instead wanted to cut the waste from the various local bureaucracies.
The speech seemed to surprise many members of the audience, whose jobs in local government were the kind of positions the governor seemed to be describing as wasteful. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003 



487 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Latest Merger Makes It Clearer Than Ever: Hartford Is No Longer the Insurance Capital 

BYLINE:  By STACEY STOWE

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
Tucked into this week's announcement of a merger between two insurance companies, the Travelers Property Casualty Corporation and the St. Paul Companies, was the news that the consolidated company will move its headquarters to Minnesota, removing another chess piece from Hartford's already diminished board. Within two years, the city once known as the insurance capital of the world will be the home office of just two major insurance corporations.
 "The insurance capital? I don't even think it's an insurance capital anymore," said Richard L. Huber, chief executive of Aetna from 1997 to 2000 and now a private investor with homes in Hartford and Manhattan. 
 There will still be plenty of insurance-business jobs in Hartford. But what the shift means to the culture of a place that traditionally looked to the giants of the insurance industry for leadership is less clear.
No one knows how many jobs will be gained or lost because of the merger between Travelers and St. Paul. "The ink is barely dry on the deal," said Keith Anderson, chief communications officer for Travelers, who estimated that about 8 percent of the companies' $350 million expenses would be saved in the deal, some of it in jobs. But the deal marks another landmark in Hartford's evolution from the days when "the bishops," as the chairmen of Hartford's leading insurance companies were known, sat on charity boards and served as the city's financial and political patrons. 
Today, Hartford is the home of the Phoenix Companies and the Hartford Financial Services Group, both founded in the 19th century. But their colleagues have moved on.
Although Aetna retained its health care division in Hartford, its financial services division was sold to ING Groep, a Dutch company, in 2000. After the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company merged with MassMutual in 1996, the company's headquarters moved to Springfield, Mass. When the Connecticut General Life Insurance Company merged with the INA Corporation to become Cigna in 1983, the home office became Philadelphia.
On Monday, Prudential Financial announced that it was buying Cigna's Hartford-based retirement investment business; Cigna's health care division will remain in the nearby suburb Bloomfield.
To be sure, insurance remains a vital source of jobs in Hartford; 17 percent of all jobs in the city are with insurance carriers, compared with 3.2 percent statewide, according to the Connecticut Labor Department.
But the departure of the home office, its chief executives and its attendant upper management means the loss not only of money for cultural and charity organizations, but also of civic leaders in a city long on urban ills, said Nancy Roberts, president of the Connecticut Council for Philanthropy.
According to the 2000 census, 30.6 percent of Hartford's 125,000 residents live below the poverty line. Forty percent of the adult population is functionally illiterate, and more than half the city's students drop out of high school. The per capita income is $13,428. 
Tom Baker, a professor at the University of Connecticut School of Law and director of its insurance law center, said the changing dynamic is a positive. "You get people leaving one company to start another," he said. "These smaller, related businesses make Hartford the Silicon Valley of the insurance industry."
But Hartford is banking on continued corporate support. By the summer of 2005, $2 billion of development is expected to be completed, including Adriaen's Landing, a hotel and conference center championed by Gov. John G. Rowland as a new beginning for the city.
In the old Hartford, the social, economic, and political fabric was enmeshed with the insurance giants. Its chairmen and top executives were among Hartford's first families, whose names grace the city's buildings and bridges. For example, Morgan Gardner Bulkeley was chairman of Aetna Life & Casualty from 1879 to 1922 and served as mayor of Hartford, governor of Connecticut and United States senator.
Ellsworth Grant, a historian whose books include "The Miracle of Connecticut," said that Travelers financed Hartford's first urban renewal project, Constitution Plaza, in 1960, and Aetna built the Civic Center in 1974.
John H. Motley, the president of the Travelers Foundation, said the tradition of commitment and giving to the city endures. The foundation gave $5 million to city cultural institutions and charities last year. 
Mr. Motley, who on Wednesday was named chairman of the board of Hartford's Wadsworth Atheneum, the nation's oldest public art museum, said that while Hartford is not the insurance capital of the country anymore, the trend toward consolidation means that neither is any other city. In 1993, Travelers had 8,000 employees in Hartford. Today, the three Hartford divisions of the company employ 8,200.
"What happens in Hartford, regardless of the cosmetic issue of the headquarter locations, is the insurance and financial services presence in Hartford is about the same as it was 10 years ago," Mr. Motley said. 
But Mr. Huber, the former Aetna executive, maintains that a city that is both headquarters and home to its chairman will reap the benefits.
"When the C.E.O. lives elsewhere, you don't see your staff members in a social situation," he said. "The cultural institutions are not the ones in your neighborhood. You end up with a remote-controlled operation."

A TIMELINE
Hartford's Vanishing Insurers

THE CIGNA CORPORATION, a company created in 1982 by the merger of the Connecticut General Life Insurance Company (founded in Hartford in 1865) and INA, moved its headquarters from Bloomfield, a Hartford suburb, to Philadelphia in 1983. Prudential Financial announced on Monday that it was buying Cigna's retirement investment business. Cigna's health care division has its headquarters in Hartford.

THE CONNECTICUT MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY, established in 1846, merged with MassMutual in 1996. MassMutual has its headquarters in Springfield, Mass.

THE AETNA LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY, established in 1853, sold its property casualty division to Travelers in 1996 and its financial services division to ING Groep, a Dutch company, in 2000. Aetna maintains its health division in Hartford.

HARTFORD STEAM BOILER, founded in 1866, became a subsidiary of the New York-based American Insurance Group in 2001.

THE TRAVELERS PROPERTY CASUALTY CORPORATION, established in 1864 as the Travelers Insurance Company and independent after being spun off from Citigroup in 2002, announced on Monday that it will merge with the St. Paul Companies. The St. Paul Travelers Companies will have headquarters in St. Paul.

THE HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, founded in 1810 as the Hartford Fire Insurance Company, has its headquarters in Hartford.

THE PHOENIX COMPANIES, established in 1851, has its headquarters in Hartford.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Hartford headquarters of Travelers, which plans to merge with a Minnesota-based insurance company. (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); MERGERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (89%); CHARITIES (87%); HEALTH CARE (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); POOR POPULATION (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); PHILANTHROPY (64%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (62%); CENSUS (61%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: TRAVELERS COS INC (96%); CIGNA CORP (85%); PHOENIX COS INC (66%); CONNECTICUT MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (65%); CONNECTICUT GENERAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (64%); ING GROEP NV (58%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (52%)

TICKER: TRV (NYSE) (96%); CI (NYSE) (85%); PNX (NYSE) (66%); INGA (BIT) (58%); INGA (AMS) (58%); ING (NYSE) (58%); PRU (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (96%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (96%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (85%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (52%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (52%) SIC6331 FIRE; 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003 



488 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Hearing Splits on Public Help For a Proposed Office Tower 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The prospect of another skyscraper sets off a hue and cry in many Manhattan neighborhoods, but rarely in the glass-and-steel canyons along the Avenue of the Americas or 42nd Street.
 But a local landlord, a local civic group and some politicians railed at a public hearing yesterday about a proposed 51-story, $1 billion skyscraper that would serve as a headquarters for Bank of America on the block between Broadway and the Avenue of the Americas, from 42nd to 43rd Streets. Critics opposed not so much the tower but public subsidies for the 2.1-million-square-foot project and the state's use of condemnation to gain control of the land. 
 Bank of America and its partner, the developer Douglas Durst, marshaled supporters, including the Real Estate Board, city and state officials, theater groups, the construction industry and an environmental group. The hearing was sponsored by the Empire State Development Corporation.
Mr. Durst, whose family owns all but three parcels on the block, has asked the state to condemn the site so that the project can go forward quickly, a move opposed by one landowner on the block.
"They're using the power of eminent domain to benefit private corporations, not for a public purpose," said the landowner, Joseph Bernstein, who is part of a group that owns two parcels on the block. Mr. Bernstein said the project would destroy new retail shops and override landmark laws while using $650 million in tax-free Liberty Bonds intended to revive Lower Manhattan.
Mr. Durst said yesterday that the building was an important project for the city and would generate $30 million a year in tax revenue.
In a letter submitted for the hearing, Andrew Alper, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, said the project underlined New York's position as a financial capital. In defending the subsidies -- $650 million in bonds and $56.4 million in tax breaks -- Mr. Alper has said Bank of America is moving two of its four major divisions to New York.
But Tara Burke, a spokeswoman for Bank of America, said the bank's global corporate investment banking division and its asset management group were already in New York.
Wall Street analysts said Bank of America, based in North Carolina, wanted to move to a signature building in a prominent location to show it was a contender in investment banking. If the bank wanted a less expensive deal, real estate brokers said, it could move downtown, where rents are 30 percent lower than uptown.
Bettina Damiani, director of Good Jobs New York, and other critics of subsidy deals pointed out that there was no guarantee a corporation would make good on its promise to "grow jobs in New York." Bank of America, for instance, got more than $15 million in tax breaks and cash grants in 1993 to move to the World Trade Center instead of the suburbs. But the city terminated the benefit package in 1998 after the bank's payroll fell to 800, well below the 1,700 envisioned in the deal. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); TAX INCENTIVES (86%); BONDS (86%); TAX RELIEF (86%); THEATER (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); EMINENT DOMAIN (77%); RELOCATIONS (76%); PROPERTY LAW (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (72%); THEATER COMPANIES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (55%); RETAILERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (69%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%) SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003 



489 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2003
 National Edition 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Watching Over Freddie and Fannie 

 BODY:
Our political system can be rather nimble at reacting to financial crises, but when it comes to preventing them, well, that's another matter. Issues that seem more urgent can get in the way of reforms that can stave off the next crisis, as can bureaucratic inertia and the fact that the status quo benefits powerful interests.
 Efforts in Washington to strengthen financial oversight of the government-chartered mortgage giants, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, are a case in point. Accounting irregularities at both companies in recent months, though not in themselves catastrophic, have served as a warning that it no longer makes any sense to have these institutions regulated by an obscure office within the Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
 The Bush administration is rightly pushing for the Treasury Department to regulate the two giants, along with the network of federal home loan banks. Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae provide financing to lenders by creating a secondary market for mortgages. All told, these two institutions' debt portfolio exceeds more than $1.5 trillion. Their current regulator is ill equipped to keep tabs on Freddie's and Fannie's sophisticated hedging strategies and the other financial moves they use to manage their huge investments.
Lax regulatory oversight of these companies is made more worrisome by confusion over the extent to which Uncle Sam backs them up. An "implied guarantee" gives Freddie and Fannie a competitive advantage in the marketplace, part of which is passed on to home buyers. But there is a danger (remember the savings and loan crisis?) in having the marketplace complacently assume that normal risk assessments need not apply to these players.
Even without signs of an imminent calamity, it is hard to argue that these financial enterprises -- essentially two huge hedge funds -- should continue to evade the type of rigorous oversight that banks face on issues like capital requirements and new lines of business. Yet it looks as if Freddie and Fannie, along with the home builders' lobby, may succeed in blocking legislation to transfer regulatory oversight to the Treasury. 
The two mortgage enterprises have helped to add liquidity to the housing market and put more working families in new homes. That mission need not be threatened by stronger oversight of their finances. Indeed, it will be protected.





LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); BANK FAILURES (73%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (71%); ACCOUNTING (70%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (69%); FAMILY (69%); DEREGULATION (67%); CITIES (54%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) MORTGAGES; EDITORIALS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (56%) FREDDIE MAC; FANNIE MAE 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%) SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES; 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003 



490 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: A REGION INFLAMED: TERRORISM; 
In the Balance: Attacks on Turkey Aim to Sever a Bridge Between Islam and the West

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
Turkey's worst fears were realized Thursday when the second major bomb attack in a week confirmed that this land has become a new battleground in the struggle over terror.
 The attacks appeared aimed at disrupting the pro-Western secular axis many people in the Middle East believe the United States and Britain are trying to drive through the region with Iraq war. Such an axis would create a swath of territory friendly to the West from the Mediterranean to the Persian Gulf. 
 "Turkey will continue to walk on her path and exert efforts for world peace, in the country and the region," the country's foreign minister, Abdullah Gul, told reporters. 
Turkey, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization's only Muslim member, has carefully cultivated and jealously guarded a European-style secular political culture that is crucial to the American program to send pro-Western values percolating through the tribal and theocratic grid of the Middle East.
With its foothold on the European continent and the bulk of its territory in Asia, Turkey has been the site of sweeping ideological battles before. Once part of the Christian Byzantine Empire, and later the center of the Muslim Ottoman Empire, the country in its modern incarnation has tried to finesse its identity by paying lip service to the Islamic world while defining its future among the dynamic economies of the West.
Turkey was the first among Muslim nations to recognize Israel and has developed extensive ties with it since then. It has been a model NATO member and has tried hard in recent years to win the favor of the European Union, which Turkey wants to join.
All of this has made the country suspect among Muslim countries, particularly in the Arab world.
Meanwhile, decades of economic malaise have haunted a generation of frustrated, underemployed youth and turned many toward conservative Islam.
An often brutal effort to force the assimilation of the country's restive Kurdish minority into the larger Turkish population also fed passions among Kurdish youth and spawned a generation of closet separatists with a hardened fringe of fighters.
The religion-inspired wars of the 1990's drew some young Turks north into Bosnia or across Iran to Chechnya and Afghanistan. In those places, terrorism experts say, the young men were vulnerable to the ideological zeal and global designs then coalescing into Al Qaeda.
The war in Iraq may have tipped the balance toward actual terrorism. "Before, the threat was more or less theoretical," said Rifat Bali, a writer in Istanbul.
The Turkish government has been a reluctant player in America's Iraqi adventure, which most of the country's 66 million people opposed. Many politicians made strong statements against the prospect of an invasion, and Turkey refused to allow American soldiers to enter Iraq from Turkey.
Turkey later offered troops to help stabilize the country, then rescinded that offer in the face of stiff opposition at home and in Iraq.
The main concern of Turks opposed to the war was that it would re-ignite a Kurdish separatist movement near the border with Iraq.
Government officials say that, in fact, violence has increased in that part of the country. This week, the government said it had recently arrested Kurdish rebels in possession of explosives and plans of Turkish police stations. On Tuesday, unarmed Kurds briefly took hostages at Istanbul's main courthouse before being overcome by the police.
Despite the waffling, though, Turkey appears committed to the American program, something that makes it a prime target for terrorists wishing to punish Muslim states that lean too closely toward the West.
In fact, this week's bombings could threaten the stability of the government, only a year into its mandate.
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's governing Justice and Development Party, which grew out of a conservative Islamic political party, may prove vulnerable to the violence. Many people already question the party's commitment to fighting radical Islam and wonder whether having an Islamist-rooted party at the helm of a pro-Western government has drawn the radicals' ire.
Turkish troops appeared briefly Thursday on highways and alongside the police, an ominous sign to some. The military has seized power three times from 1960 to 1980 and forced out the Islamist-oriented government of Necmettin Erbakan, Mr. Erdogan's onetime mentor, in 1997.
The attacks could also force a Turkish response inimical to European demands to curb the military's influence and end what the European Union considers brutal tactics against Kurds and other government opponents.
The Turkish government, in turn, has criticized the Europeans for declining cooperation in fighting terrorism and for criticizing Turkey's often brutal tactics against threats.
Turkey complains, for example, that the Kurdistan Freedom and Democracy Congress is able to operate freely in Europe even though its predecessor, the Kurdistan Workers' Party, is on the terrorist list.
On Monday, a Turkish government spokesman, Cemil Cicek, called the European Union's public commiseration over Saturday's bombings "crocodile tears," and told reporters that "we know that terrorists are living freely in some of the countries that have conveyed condolences to us." He said Turkey's extradition demands were regularly turned down without reason.
A day after the synagogue bombings, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany said, however, that Turkey's membership in the European Union would enhance European security by showing "that the Islamic faith and the democratic values of the European Enlightenment need not contradict each other but can coexist."
Cigden Naz of the European Union Institute at Mamara University in Istanbul said, "If there are more attacks, this could increase the urgency of the Turkey's request for membership." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); TERRORISM (92%); RELIGION (92%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); POLITICS (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); IRAQ WAR (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); WRITERS (69%) TERRORISM; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%) AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: ABDULLAH GUL (59%) SMITH, CRAIG S 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (93%) INDIAN OCEAN (57%) TURKEY (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GULF STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); ISRAEL (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%) TURKEY; ISTANBUL (TURKEY); GREAT BRITAIN; MIDDLE EAST

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003 



491 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: Number of New Jobless Claims Fell Last Week 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The number of Americans filing first-time unemployment claims fell last week, the Labor Department said yesterday, bringing the four-week average to the lowest since February 2001 as the economy strengthened. A measure of future economic activity rose for the fifth time in six months.
 States received 355,000 applications for jobless benefits in the week that ended Saturday, down from 370,000 the previous week, the department said. And a private research group in New York, the Conference Board, said its gauge of how the economy would perform over the next three to six months rose 0.4 percent, more than forecast. 
"My own expectation is that the economy will, on average, grow above potential through the end of 2004, creating conditions for businesses to increase their hiring," said Michael H. Moskow, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, in a speech.
 The economy has added 286,000 jobs in the last three months and expanded last quarter at an estimated 7.5 percent, the fastest rate in 19 years. The economy is forecast to grow at a 4 percent rate this quarter, in line with growth in the second half of the 1990's. Economists said job growth might continue as stronger demand lifted corporate profits and gave companies confidence to hire.
 "At this level, claims imply payroll growth of about 150,000 per month," said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y. The claims report covers the same week that the Labor Department surveys businesses and households for its November employment report.
 Economists had expected initial claims would slip to 365,000 from the 366,000 initially reported for the week earlier. Statistics show that claims fell in the final week of October to 353,000, the lowest since January 2001. The four-week average of new claims fell 9,000, to 367,250. 
 The Conference Board's index of leading indicators rose more than the median forecast of a 0.2 percent gain. Six of the 10 indicators the Conference Board uses to derive the index contributed to the increase. Fewer initial jobless claims, improving consumer confidence, rising stock prices and a jump in building permits paced the increase. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); STATISTICS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); BUILDING PERMITS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (69%)

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); CONFERENCE BOARD 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003 



492 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: A Band-Aid for the Fund Industry's Broken Leg? 

BYLINE:  By DIANA B. HENRIQUES 

 BODY:
What is the best way to fix what is wrong with mutual funds? The House of Representatives has offered a grab bag of options in a bill approved on Wednesday. But the bill may not sufficiently address the short-term trading abuse at the heart of the scandals that have come to light since September.
 The abuse involves traders reaping extraordinary profits, at the expense of long-term investors, by quickly buying and selling the shares of funds whose purchase prices do not yet reflect gains in the prices of the funds' underlying assets. 
The House bill's primary ammunition against this kind of trading seems to be to allow funds to increase redemption fees, from the current limit of 2 percent for investors who pull their money out too soon or who trade too often. 
 But many scholars who have studied the problem say that high redemption fees could wind up hurting the very people Congress is trying to protect -- the long-term, middle-income investors in mutual funds -- by making it riskier for them to invest money they might need for emergencies. The fees could backfire for the industry, as well, by making mutual funds less attractive in an increasingly competitive marketplace, several researchers said. Worse yet, the fees may not even be effective against the abuse that Congress is trying to prevent, a few of them warned.
 It comes down to the difference between treating a symptom and curing the disease, said John M.R. Chalmers, a professor at the Lundquist College of Business at the University of Oregon. "If mutual fund shares were priced correctly, there would be no opportunities for market timers and thus redemption fees would be unnecessary," he said.
 And funds are not always priced correctly, academics and industry experts agree, because federal law requires funds to set the share price once a day, usually at 4 p.m. Eastern time. At that hour, some fund investments -- foreign stocks, high-yield bonds, thinly traded domestic stocks -- may not have traded for many hours. If those stale valuations are used for calculating the share price, the price will not reflect market gains that occurred since those securities last traded. That gives traders a chance to buy the fund's shares, wait until the price does reflect those gains, and then cash out with big profits, a practice sometimes called stale-price arbitrage.
 Mutual funds already have the option of adjusting those stale prices to reflect market moves through a process known as fair-value pricing. Funds that regularly use fair-value pricing -- including many Fidelity and Vanguard funds -- appear to have been much less vulnerable to the "market timing" abuses.
 The fine print in the House bill requires federal regulators to "clarify" that funds are obligated to adjust their stale prices under certain circumstances. Though that has been the stated regulatory policy for more than two years, academic studies show that more than half of the fund industry uses the technique too rarely to have more than a minuscule impact on stale prices. 
 "It is critical that regulators understand that fair-value pricing should be the primary focus of the solution to the problem," said Gregory B. Kadlec, a professor at Virginia Tech and an author, with Mr. Chalmers and Roger Edelen, formerly of the Wharton School, of one of the earliest papers on the issue. 
 "While short-term transaction fees are probably a necessary part of the solution," Mr. Kadlec said, "transaction fees represent only a Band-Aid that is unlikely to ever eliminate all market timing if used in isolation."
 For one thing, redemption fees will work only if they are universally applied and enforced. They are expensive to enforce, and they are difficult, if not impossible, to enforce in some of the biggest marketplaces for mutual funds -- 401(k) plans, fund supermarkets like Charles Schwab and variable annuities. Indeed, many of the fund companies sucked into the current scandal had redemption fees to discourage short-term trading.
 And a redemption fee "is a very coarse weapon -- it affects everyone, not just the ones who are the target," said K. Geert Rouwenhorst, a professor at the Yale School of Management. "The longer the holding period and the higher the fee, the more we deter short-term trading, but the more we affect the long-term investors, too."
 Since the invention of the American mutual fund in Boston in 1924, one of its historic advantages has been instant liquidity for small investors who may need their savings for a rainy day. Losing that classic advantage, experts say, could make mutual funds less competitive.
 "The beautiful thing about mutual funds was that they gave you infinite liquidity," said Robert F. Whitelaw, a professor at the Stern School of Business at New York University. "You can imagine a situation where, hell, you just invested and you suddenly need the money. After all, stuff happens."
 By reducing both the perception and the reality of liquidity, he said, redemption fees could make mutual funds less attractive to investors who have few other investment options.
 And that could make the fund industry itself less competitive in the marketplace, said Professor Rouwenhorst of Yale. "There are competitors to mutual funds -- like exchange-traded funds -- that are competing on the basis of transaction costs and liquidity," he said. "And now, we're trying to protect mutual funds by raising their transaction costs and reducing their liquidity."
 Some academics are convinced that fees will not even prevent the abuses now coming to light.
 Eric Zitzewitz, a Stanford economist whose research has been cited by investigators, estimates that fees far larger than those contemplated in the bill, imposed on all shares sold within five days of purchase, would reduce the excess profits from stale-price arbitrage by only about half -- from almost 50 percent a year to about 24 percent a year, still high enough to be attractive.
 The problem with this bill, Professor Zitzewitz said, is that it reflects the regulatory and industry view that "stale-price arbitrage should be addressed with fees primarily, and occasional use of fair-value pricing."
 "This," he added, "is essentially the status quo, and we know that the status quo is not working."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STOCK REDEMPTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); ETHICS (77%); BONDS (77%); PRODUCT PRICING (75%); BONE FRACTURES (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (61%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (52%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ETHICS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MUTUAL FUNDS; SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES VIOLATIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003 



493 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Cellphone Users in Russia Reach a High in October 

BYLINE:  By ERIN E. ARVEDLUND 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
Russia is becoming a nation of cellphone users, with roughly one in five signed up for a mobile phone. 
 The number of cellphone subscribers nationwide hit a high of 32.3 million in October, up from 30.8 million in September, according to research released this week by J'son & Partners, a consultant group in Moscow. 
 J'son said that in October, 22.3 percent of the population had subscribed to a cellular service provider, from 21.2 percent in September. Moscow leads with 62.4 percent of the population signed up, followed by St. Petersburg, with 49.6 percent. 
 The increase in cellphone use is raising profits for providers like Vimpel Communications, which reported sharply higher third-quarter profits on Thursday, citing record new subscribers. 
 Vimpel, which trades on the New York Stock Exchange, reported that its third-quarter net profit grew 78 percent, to $72.2 million, from the period a year earlier. Total subscribers were up 130 percent, to 10.4 million, over the period last year, and revenues increased 71 percent, to $379 million.
 Vimpel is the second-largest cellular service provider in Russia, and has roughly 30 percent of the market under the brand name, Bee Line. As of Thursday, Vimpel said it had signed up 10.4 million subscribers, an increase of 400,000 new users in the last two weeks.
 The No.1 cellular service provider is MTS; Megafon is the third largest. Vimpel recently acquired 25 percent of Megafon, and hopes to buy a third-generation license at a government auction next year.
 "Cellphone saturation in Europe, even in smaller countries like the Czech Republic, is as high as 80-90 percent; in Israel, it's 100 percent," says Vladimir Postolovsky, senior telecommunications analyst at Brunswick UBS. "From 22 percent penetration, Russia could get to 65 percent penetration by 2007 or 2008," or about 92 million people
 But other projections show Russia hitting 65 million cellphone subscribers and $10 billion in cellular service revenues in 2007, up from slightly more than 20 million subscribers and $3 billion in revenue last year, according to a September report from the Moscow office of Pyramid Research.
 If the Russian economy continues to grow at its current rate of 6 percent a year, cellphone growth should continue, Mr. Postolovsky said. "Increasingly, more people will be able to afford the service." 
 Some analysts say demand for cellphones is nearly sated in Russia's biggest cities, and phone companies are moving aggressively out into the provinces. 
"Vimpel will launch operations in key Urals regions next month," said Alexei Yakovitsky, a telecommunications analyst at the United Financial Group. He said Vimpel is expected to establish networks in other regions of Russia, like Yekaterinburg, and Tyumen and Chelyabinsk by the end of this year.
 Harvey Sawikin, co-founder of Firebird Management in New York, said Vimpel might find it harder to expand outside of Moscow.
 "Russia's regions don't have the incomes that you see in Moscow, and the competition is actually much greater," he said. Vimpel already competes with MTS and UralSvyazInform, in Russia's provinces, he added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (96%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (93%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); 3G WIRELESS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); AUCTIONS (64%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: VIMPELCOM LTD (84%); OJSC MEGAFON (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: J'SON & PARTNERS; VIMPEL COMMUNICATIONS 

TICKER: VIP (NYSE) (84%); MFON (RTS) (58%); MFON (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%) SIC4812 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS; 

PERSON: ARVEDLUND, ERIN E 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (89%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) RUSSIA; MOSCOW (RUSSIA); ST PETERSBURG (RUSSIA)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003 



494 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: China Threatens U.S. With Higher Import Tariffs 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
China's vice minister of commerce threatened on Thursday to raise tariffs on imports from the United States in a steel dispute, and summoned the American ambassador to protest the Bush administration's announcement this week of plans to impose quotas on Chinese sleepwear, bras and certain fabrics.
 But the Chinese government also took pains to limit the scope of its disagreement with the Bush administration. A Chinese foreign ministry spokesman in Beijing said that two trips to the United States by purchasing teams had been postponed because of difficulties in obtaining visas for the teams' members, and not as a move toward trade retaliation. 
With Chinese exports to the United States exceeding imports by nearly six to one, and with Beijing desperate to preserve the political stability that rapid, export-led economic growth has produced, China has little to gain and much to lose from a trade war. By talking tough but doing nothing, Beijing may actually help the White House resist protectionist pressures within the United States, while leaving actual trade unharmed. 
 "I don't believe there will be retaliatory measures against existing U.S. exports to China," although some purchasing expeditions may be delayed, said Andy Xie, an Asia economist for Morgan Stanley. "The Chinese are very conscious of the damage protectionism could do to China, that's why they want to make a lot of noise."
 Ever since the Tiananmen Square killings in 1989, China has beaten back repeated attempts by protectionists and human rights advocates to restrict significantly its trade access to the American market. Each time, Beijing's diplomats have worked with American corporate leaders to rally members of Congress from states that hope to export more to China, like Midwestern states that are already selling more grain and Washington state, which is shipping more Boeing planes.
 The vice minister of commerce, Ma Xiuhong, said on Thursday that China would raise tariffs on imports from the United States if American steel tariffs are not lifted in compliance with a World Trade Organization ruling last week that the tariffs violate international trade rules, according to the official New China News Agency. The European Union has already threatened to impose retaliatory tariffs on $2.2 billion worth of American exports of apples, avocados, oranges, harvesting machines, toilet paper and a few other products if the United States does not back down.
 The New China News Agency did not single out any specific American products for possible retaliation. Bush administration officials have said that the president is reviewing what to do about the steel tariffs, which range up to 30 percent and were imposed in March 2002.
 Threats of retaliatory tariffs when the W.T.O. rules against a country are a staple of international trade negotiations, with countries commonly choosing products from politically influential regions in the hope of bringing more pressure to bear, as the Europeans have done by picking especially on California farm goods this time. Usually a settlement is reached before any tariffs are imposed, but there have been a few exceptions.
 When western European countries restricted frozen chicken imports in the early 1960's, President Lyndon B. Johnson responded by imposing a 25-percent tariff on imported pickup trucks that continues to protect Detroit today. Companies like Toyota and Nissan build pickup trucks at plants in the United States to get around the tariff, and other companies sell American-built trucks under their own name plates.
 Ms. Ma also summoned the United States ambassador to China, Clark T. Randt Jr., on Thursday and expressed "deep regret and firm opposition" to the American decision to begin a three-month negotiation that is likely to end with an imposition of quotas on certain Chinese textile and apparel shipments to the United States.
 China's vice foreign minister, Zhou Wenzhong, also met with Mr. Randt on Wednesday to protest the decision on bras, sleepwear and knit fabrics and warn that China reserved the right to challenge the textile decision before the World Trade Organization, much as Brazil, China, Japan and the European Union have already done successfully with the Bush administration's steel tariffs.
 Many governments, including that of the United States, occasionally ask other countries' ambassadors to come in for meetings when they have diplomatic or trade differences.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A worker walks past rolls of stock at a Baosteel plant on the outskirts of Shanghai. Baosteel is among the world's largest steel makers. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (92%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); AIDS & HIV (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SLEEPWEAR & LOUNGEWEAR (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); CROP HARVESTING SERVICES (64%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (64%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); GENERIC AND BRAND NAME PRODUCTS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (55%); BOEING CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ASPEN PHARMACARE 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (55%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%)

PERSON: ITANO, NICOLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) SOUTH AFRICA

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003 



495 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Recovering Economy Is Relying Heavily on China 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
Japan and the United States both complain that China's currency is undervalued, but while Americans watch their trade deficit with China balloon to record levels, Japan announced on Thursday a 27.8 percent increase in its exports to China.
 Japan's monthly deficit with China shrank in October by 21 percent, to slightly less than $2 billion. And when Japan's trade with Hong Kong is figured in, that deficit turns into a $778 million surplus for the month. 
 "The whining about the yuan has died down quite a bit because exports are going like a train," Peter J. Morgan, chief economist for HSBC, said of complaints heard in Japan last month about China's long-fixed exchange rate. 
 With China and Hong Kong snapping up Japanese steel, cellphone parts, video game parts and liquid-crystal display panels, sales to China and Hong Kong accounted for 63 percent of Japan's export growth last month. By contrast, Japan's exports to the United States fell by 6.2 percent, the 10th consecutive month of decrease.
 Exports to the United States have fallen partly because Japanese car companies increasingly build their cars in the United States, rather than send them across the Pacific on ships. In addition, the yen has strengthened by 10 percent against the dollar since July, closing on Thursday at 107.5 yen to the dollar.
 "China remains the source of most of the export growth," wrote Richard Jerram, an economist for ING Financial Markets. With China now the world's largest exporter to Japan, he wrote, "Japan's dependence on the U.S. has just been replaced by a broader dependence on China and the U.S."
 Japan, which has done relatively little in the way of economic reform in recent years, now finds itself dragged upward by the muscular growth of its two largest trading partners. The United States economy grew at an annualized rate of 7.2 percent in the third quarter, and China grew by a rate of 9.1 percent. Sandwiched between them, Japan recorded a 2.2 percent growth rate.
 "The economy is recovering," Japan's cabinet office said on Thursday, officially upgrading its assessment of the nation's economy, which has registered seven successive quarters of growth.
 "We have upgraded our view as business investment and corporate profits strengthen and production recovers," Heizo Takenaka, the minister of economics, said at a news conference Thursday.
 The Daiwa Institute of Research, a leading economic institute here, predicted that Japan's economy would grow by 2.7 percent in the fiscal year ending in March, and by 2.8 percent in fiscal 2004. 
 Kobe Steel reported on Thursday a 72 percent jump in six-month earnings over the period a year earlier, an increase attributed in part to robust sales of steel products to China.
 While China remains the thrust for Japan's economy, the recovery is leading to higher holiday bonuses, which are expected to increase consumer spending, the source of half of Japan's economic activity.
 The good economic news caused the Nikkei stock average to bounce up 2.6 percent Thursday, almost erasing a drop this week below the psychologically important 10,000 line. The index closed at 9,865. For the last three weeks, foreigners have been net buyers on the Japanese exchanges, the Tokyo Stock Exchange reported on Thursday.
 With economists here forecasting Chinese growth rates of 9 percent for this year and next, every sector in Japan is trying to redirect itself. Airlines are adding more flights to China, tour companies are trying to win more Chinese tourists, and companies are either building factories in China, or selling the capital goods to Chinese entrepreneurs to build their own factories.
 "Japan is a big capital goods exporter, and there is a capital spending boom going on in China," Mr. Morgan said. 
 For the moment, Asia's two largest economies are roughly complementary. China specializes in labor-intensive products and Japan excels in high-technology goods that require capital and design expertise.
 So far about a quarter of Japan's exports compete head to head with Chinese products, Graham Hutchings, a China analyst for Oxford Analytica, estimated in a lecture this week. Capturing the tenor of the economic moment, Mr. Hutchings's speech was titled: "The Rise of China: Should Japan Be Afraid?"
 While his answers were inconclusive, many Japanese business leaders seem to see China more as an opportunity than as a threat. China is not following Japan's postwar protectionist model. This year, China's imports have risen 40 percent.
 Japanese business leaders still write opinion articles bemoaning the unfairness of China's weak currency. But in October, they also managed to send a record $5.7 billion worth of exports to China alone, not counting Hong Kong.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sales to China and Hong Kong, including shipments of cellphone parts and liquid crystal display panels, accounted for 63 percent of Japan's export growth last month. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (91%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TRENDS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (69%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; BONUSES; STEEL AND IRON; COMPANY REPORTS; SALES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

COMPANY: ING GROEP NV (54%); DAIWA INSTITUTE OF RESEARCH LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: KOBE STEEL LTD 

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (54%); INGA (AMS) (54%); ING (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (54%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%)

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (59%) CHINA (99%); JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); HONG KONG (94%) JAPAN; CHINA; HONG KONG

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003 



496 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: THE GROUND ZERO MEMORIAL: VOICES; 
9/11 Memorial's Multiple Goals Leave New Yorkers Divided

BYLINE:  By JANNY SCOTT; Nora Krug and Ann Farmer contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
It is not a war memorial, exactly. Or maybe it is. It is a grave site, but it should not feel like a graveyard. It must honor the dead, but it should be for the living. It will list the names. But it must express far more.
 Some memorials console, some teach. And the Sept. 11 memorial proposed for the World Trade Center site may eventually do both. But after the announcement on Wednesday of the eight final designs in the competition, New Yorkers remain deeply split over the memorial's most basic outlines: What is its purpose? Whom is it for? And when should it be done? 
 Many say they want something therapeutic, to help heal the wounds of survivors. Others want something educational, drawing lessons for the future. Some want a memorial that illuminates individual victims' lives; others say too many specifics will eclipse any sense of collective meaning. For some, the process is too long -- or not long enough. 
"I think this is the worst time in our history to have to come up with a memorial," said Art Spiegelman, the cartoonist and creator of "Maus," a novel of the Holocaust in comic book form, which won a Pulitzer Prize. "Because the meanings of the tragic events of Sept. 11 have been so hijacked themselves. Whatever we try to make of this event right now will be distorted by the deep fissure in our political life in America."
In interviews conducted in the two days since the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation named the finalists and put their designs on display at the World Financial Center in Lower Manhattan, several dozen New Yorkers talked in detail about what they believe the purpose of the memorial should be and what the experience of visiting it should be like.
They were divided over the degree to which the memorial should be cathartic or educational; over the extent to which it should be for the immediate survivors or "a history book in stone," as one put it; and over how much the 9/11 memorial should dwell on specific details of the day and of the dead -- or on broader, even global themes.
Nicholas Christopher, a poet and novelist who lives in Greenwich Village, said several of the finalists' proposals reminded him of cemeteries. He would prefer a simple park and a wall of names, along with "buildings with living people working and carrying on what the people who died were doing, from drinking their coffee to daydreaming to doing their jobs."
Yury Komisar, a Russian immigrant who lives in Brighton Beach and manages a car service on Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn, insisted: "It's a cemetery. You don't build on a cemetery. You have to give respect to the people buried there." He said the memorial must be large enough to have emotional power: "It should go to your heart. So when you see it, you'll never forget."
Jose E. Rodriguez, a sculptor born in Puerto Rico and living in Manhattan, said he would prefer that the emphasis be "more about peace or understanding or learning to live with each other in this world." Focusing exclusively on the American end of the 9/11 experience, he said, "is almost an easy way out. It would be more difficult to talk about the world issues."
"And if it's going to be about the loss," he added, "maybe it would be good to make parallels with other tragedies that have happened around the world because of war and economics and similar things."
For much of American history, memorials celebrated heroes, not victims. They followed what historians describe as a didactic or pedagogic model. But in the second half of the 20th century, the focus shifted from heroes to victims. The stated purpose of many recent memorials became a kind of community or group therapy and healing.
Kirk Savage, an art historian at the University of Pittsburgh who has traced the evolution of what he and others call therapeutic monuments, said a turning point was the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington. Devoid of the traditional celebration of heroic sacrifice, the monument had as its express purpose encouraging the process of healing.
Professor Savage said the focus on victims intensified even further at the Oklahoma City National Memorial, where images of the 168 people killed in the 1995 bombing are on display. If the idea of the "therapeutic or traumatic memorial" is taken to its extreme, he said, there is a risk of losing the sense of a broader meaning.
"In the end, there has to be a collective meaning to this event that justifies their memorialization," he said of the victims. "That's why I think the therapeutic monument has to be didactic in some way, has to have a rationale, a meaning that justifies the collective focus on this event."
Some New Yorkers said they imagined the 9/11 memorial primarily as an expression of loss. Others wanted it to convey resilience, defiance orhope. Anthony D. Meyers, an advertising salesman from Morris Park in the Bronx, said he would like something educational, along the lines of the 16th Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, Ala., incorporating oral history.
Martin B. Duberman, a professor of history at the City University of New York, said he wished the memorial would present an alternative to "the model of human depravity" used to explain awful events. It might instead challenge the notion of "intrinsic depravity" by exploring recent findings that compassion and the need for affiliation are intrinsic to human nature.
"I would like to move it beyond a simple memorializing of those who were lost," Professor Duberman said. "If we want to prevent more victims in the future, we need to involve ourselves in some kind of thought about what human beings are like, and is this indeed inevitable and necessary, this kind of slaughter?"
Kenneth T. Jackson, editor of the Encyclopedia of New York City and president of the New-York Historical Society, said he leaned more in the direction of memorial as therapy. He said Sept. 11 would have meaning for almost everyone in the world; many watched it on television. "It's like D-Day," he said. "You don't need a lesson."
Some argued for waiting because the meaning of 9/11 will evolve.
"Right now, it's just so much a symbol of this war on an abstract entity called terrorism that it's hard to see past that to what this may actually mean for Western civilization," Mr. Spiegelman said. "At which point, if it's meaningful, the names of the individuals who died at Dunkirk or the twin towers are less urgent than they might seem close up."
Barbara Petak, a 60-year-old retiree who lives in Brooklyn Heights, said: "I don't think it needs to be done immediately. Maybe by doing something, it makes people think we're healing ourselves. But I think we need to heal ourselves and then do something. We're such an action-oriented society. We feel we must do, rather than reflect and pause."
Pauline Grant took the opposite view.
"Eventually you have to do it," said Ms. Grant, a baby-sitter from Brooklyn. "So let's get it over with."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Visitors examined panels of the eight finalists in the World Trade Center memorial design competition at the Winter Garden of the World Financial Center yesterday. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); CEMETERIES (89%); WRITERS (87%); HISTORY (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (71%); HOLOCAUST (69%); INTERVIEWS (64%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003 



497 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: ART IN REVIEW; 
'Picasso: The Classical Period'

BYLINE:  By ROBERTA SMITH 

 BODY:
C & M Arts
45 East 78th Street, Manhattan
Through Dec. 6
 Picasso's Classical period can seem like a regressive way station between the rigors of his Cubist works and the alternately feverish and languorous machinations of his Surrealist phase. In fact, Picasso's Classical years (1917-1923) were punctuated by Cubist masterpieces like the Museum of Modern Art's "Three Musicians" of 1921. And he was not exactly taking it easy, much less moving backward, even when working in a Classical mode. 
 The 19 drawings and paintings in this extraordinary show reveal that mode to be bracingly energetic and nearly as multisourced and distortion-prone as Picasso's Cubist phase. His close study of things like drapery, bridgeless noses and small, full lips -- which was facilitated by a trip to Italy in 1917 -- is underscored by the inclusion of two Greek heads and the torso from a Roman copy of a caryatid from the Erechtheum.
In a brilliant catalog essay that bodes well for the third installment of his monumental Picasso study, John Richardson details the course of Picasso's friendships and his love life (his marriage to Olga Khokhlova, a dancer with the Ballets Russes). He also writes of his assimilation of Ingres and Renoir; Greek, Roman and Greco-Roman art; and the Michelangelesque reliefs by Jean Gujon, a 16th-century French sculptor, in Fontainebleau.
Picasso's Classical images tend to be peopled by rooted, sausage-fingered women in Grecian coifs and white gowns. Rendered in a subdued, implicitly sculptural palette of pale tans and grisailles, some of these figures hint at a comic lightness, not only in their mismatched proportions but also in the incisive economy with which they are painted. An example is a small, cryptic profile of a woman delineated in a few fat, accurate strokes.
Two small studies for "Three Women at the Spring" make a stronger impression than the final version, which the Modern has lent to this show. Another delight is a silvery portrait of a woman with her arms raised, which may be related to the painting "Woman in White," also lent by the Modern. The smaller painting inculcates Classical form with modern pensiveness, but its grisaille tones are rendered in careful scudding brushstrokes that loosely mimic chisel marks.
Picasso puts some space between himself and Classicism in a tough little drawing of a woman in an armchair, probably based on Olga, wrapped in a robe as if resting between sittings. She cups her cheek in one monstrous hand, and crosses her legs so that one big foot dangles toward us. Impatience reigns; something like Surrealism threatens, and you know that Picasso will find many uses for the clumsy proportions, unflattering likenesses and dark feelings lurking beneath the surface.
 ROBERTA SMITH

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Femme Assise," a charcoal on paper done by Picasso in 1920, is among the works in "Picasso: The Classical Period," an exhibition that continues through Dec. 6 at C & M Arts. (Photo by C & M Arts) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICS (89%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); BALLET (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PAINTING (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); MUSIC (71%); DANCERS (66%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (56%) ART; REVIEWS 

PERSON: SMITH, ROBERTA; PICASSO, PABLO (1881-1973) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003 



498 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY BRIEFS 

 BODY:
 GST AUTOLEATHER, Hagerstown, Md., a leading supplier of seating leather to the automotive industry, plans to move its cutting operations to Mexico, eliminating as many as 315 jobs at plants in Williamsport, Md., and Reading, Pa., in early 2004.

TEMPLE-INLAND, Austin, Tex., a box and lumber maker, said that it would eliminate 300 jobs at its box-making business by the end of the year to reduce costs. It did not provide locations for the cuts.

METLIFE, New York, the insurer, said it would buy a long-term-care insurance business, which serves 46,000 customers, from TIAA-CREF, New York, the pension fund company. Terms were not disclosed.

LOEWS, New York, a holding company, said it would conduct a public offering of 15,700,000 shares of the Carolina Group, a tracking stock intended to represent the economic performance of Loews's Lorillard subsidiary and other assets. Loews hopes to raise $347 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PAPER CONTAINER MFG (88%); LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE (69%); PENSION FUNDS (67%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: TEMPLE-INLAND INC (58%); TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS322211 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOX MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS321113 SAWMILLS (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAGERSTOWN, MD, USA (73%); READING, PA, USA (71%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (71%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003 



499 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 2306 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by Times critics of new or noteworthy movies playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film. Ratings and running times are in parentheses.

Now Playing

"BROTHER BEAR," with the voices of Joaquin Phoenix, Jeremy Suarez, Rick Moranis and D. B. Sweeney. Directed by Aaron Blaise and Robert Walker (G, 85 minutes). The fine line separating good-hearted family movies from inspirational films that drum in moral values is breached in "Brother Bear," a plush Disney animated film that would like to think of itself as "The Lion King Plus." Set in the Pacific Northwest at the end of the Ice Age, it traffics in the same sort of cosmic mumbo jumbo as its forerunner. Cobbling together ancient cross-cultural myths of initiation and human beings who turn into animals, it tells the story of Kenai (Mr. Phoenix), a hot-headed Indian boy on the verge of manhood who is transformed into a bear so he can learn compassion for all creatures great and small. The self-serious movie is beautiful to look at but light on humor. The soundtrack features six songs by Phil Collins (Stephen Holden).

"ELF," starring Will Ferrell, James Caan, Zooey Deschanel, Edward Asner and Bob Newhart. Directed by Jon Favreau (PG, 90 minutes). Mr. Ferrell, admired for his televisionimpersonation of George W. Bush, plays Buddy the Elf, who is not really an elf, but an overgrown human child reared by elves. Buddy, who towers over the other residents of the North Pole (thanks to some ingeniously designed sets and clever camera angles), is lovable but inept; he has been accepted by the elves, and his adoptive father (Mr. Newhart) dotes on him, but he still does not quite fit in. And so, following the timeworn adoptee-in-search-of-birth-parent storyline, Buddy sets out for New York, on a mission to find his roots and also to revive the faltering Christmas spirit of the notoriously cynical locals, who include his dad (Mr. Caan) and an adorable department store pseudo-elf (Ms. Deschanel). Directed in relatively mellow, easy-going style by Mr. Favreau, "Elf" is a charming, silly family Christmas movie more likely to spread real joy than migraine, indigestion and sugar shock. The movie succeeds because it at once restrains its sticky, gooey good cheer and wildly overdoes it. The restraint comes from the casting of two beloved old sitcom curmudgeons, Mr. Asner and Mr. Newhart, as Santa and his chief elf. The responsibility for overdoing it belongs to Mr. Ferrell, who seems poised to enter the million-dollar pop-culture doofus pantheon alongside Adam Sandler, Jim Carrey and SpongeBob SquarePants (A. O. Scott).

"THE HUMAN STAIN," starring Anthony Hopkins and Nicole Kidman. Directed by Robert Benton (R, 106 minutes). An honorable B+ term paper of a movie: sober, scrupulous and earnestly respectful of its literary source. The problem is that the source, Philip Roth's 2000 novel, is not especially sober or scrupulous: it is an angry, ungainly squall of a book, a clamorous defense of sexual vitality in an age of Puritan censoriousness and a lyrical inquiry into the mysteries of race, old age and recent American history. As Coleman Silk, a classics professor chased from his job after being absurdly accused of racism, Mr. Hopkins has a loose, mellow exuberance that almost persuades you to overlook a basic, insurmountable improbability, namely that his character is a black man who has spent most of his adulthood passing for white. Ms. Kidman, playing Coleman's abused, impoverished and much younger lover, is almost as hard to believe, but her performance is nonetheless serious and unaffected. Some of the best work comes in smaller parts: Wentworth Miller as young Coleman; Anna Deavere Smith as his mother; and especially Jacinda Barrett as the great love of his youth. The movie has many memorable, moving scenes -- as well as a few awkward and embarrassing ones -- but it never coheres either dramatically or intellectually, largely because it lacks a way to approximate the novel's unifying force, which is Mr. Roth's unruly, passionate and brilliant voice (Scott).

"LOVE ACTUALLY," starring Alan Rickman, Bill Nighy, Colin Firth, Emma Thompson, Hugh Grant, Laura Linney and Liam Neeson. Written and directed by Richard Curtis (R, 128 minutes). An indigestible Christmas pudding from the British whimsy factory responsible for such reasonably palatable confections as "Four Weddings and a Funeral," "Notting Hill" and "Bridget Jones's Diary." A romantic comedy swollen to the length of an Oscar-trolling epic -- nearly two and a quarter hours of cheekiness, diffidence and high-toned smirking -- Mr. Curtis's film is more like a record label's greatest-hits compilation or a "very special" sitcom clip-reel show than an actual movie. A sparkling Anglo-American cast of newly minted and long-familiar stars chirps, swoons, pines, quips and sheds the odd tear. Presiding over it all is the new prime minister, a twinkly bachelor with a tonsorial resemblance to Tony Blair, who is played by none other than Mr. Grant. He is just one of a number of men (Mr. Rickman and Mr. Firth are the others) who fall for younger women in their employ. A half-dozen subplots are strewn hither and yon as the movie swerves between cynicism and maudlin sentiment, oblivious to its own sleaziness and dishonesty. The only genuine comic spark comes from Mr. Nighy, as a washed-up rock star trying to make a comeback with a treacly Christmas single. The song, he's happy to admit, is rubbish. So is the movie, though it is decked out with the outward signs of sophisticated good taste (Scott).

* "MASTER AND COMMANDER: THE FAR SIDE OF THE WORLD," starring Russell Crowe and Paul Bettany. Directed by Peter Weir (PG-13, 140 minutes). This stupendously entertaining movie, adapted from two of the novels in Patrick O'Brian's 20-volume maritime adventure series, celebrates an idea of England that might have seemed a bit corny even in 1805, when the action takes place, but that is brought to vibrant life thanks to Mr. Crowe's commanding performance and Mr. Weir's thoroughgoing mastery. Mr. Crowe plays Jack Aubrey, captain of the H.M.S. Surprise, a British frigate doing battle with a mysterious French battleship off South America. The combat scenes are shot with economy and vigor, but the most thrilling parts of the movie take place between skirmishes, when the complex system of authority and deference that runs the Surprise -- and the personality traits needed to keep it running -- is at the center of attention. The film's theme is the nature of authority, and Aubrey functions as a kind of ideal executive: charismatic, tactically astute and able to instill in his sailors a sense of discipline and respect. Mr. Bettany plays the ship's surgeon, Aubrey's best friend and foil, and the tension between them -- between reason and duty, between intellect and action -- gives the movie some unexpected dramatic depth (Scott).

"THE MATRIX REVOLUTIONS," starring Keanu Reeves and Carrie-Anne Moss. Written and directed by the Wachowski Brothers (R, 129 minutes). "Everything that has a beginning has an end." Yes, thank God -- or Neo, or the One, or the Source, or the Oracle, or the Architect, or whoever it was who set this metaphysical action trilogy in motion. Last summer's "Reloaded," the second installment, was overstuffed and ungainly; this concluding chapter feels padded, with a long, grinding battle sequence in the middle and a whole lot of mumbo jumbo at the end. Mr. Reeves, perhaps worried that he was showing too much range, has purged himself of all expression apart from a worried frown and a sorrowful grimace, which is mirrored in the face of Ms. Moss, who returns as Trinity. The salient distinction of the human remnants in Zion, apart from their earth-toned natural-fiber fashions, has been the capacity for love, a word much spoken in this movie. But their ranks, in spite of the presence of fine actors like Laurence Fishburne, Harry Lennix and Harold Perrineau Jr., become more robotic with every passing scene. The sole exception is Jada Pinkett Smith as the daredevil pilot Niobe, who brings a touch of bad-girl B-movie attitude into the humorless subterranean gloom. It is not altogether worthless: the Wachowskis still know how to stage an action sequence, and there are some scenes that have a quiet, mysterious beauty. If they would only let go of their grandiose theological pretensions, they might once again beinteresting filmmakers (Scott).

"SCARY MOVIE 3," starring Anna Faris, Leslie Nielsen, Camryn Manheim, Simon Rex, Queen Latifah, Regina Hall and Charlie Sheen. Directed by David Zucker (PG-13, 90 minutes). The third installment of the comedy franchise whose jokes derive largely from references to recent hit films has been given a shot of adrenaline by Mr. Zucker, who pioneered the genre with "Airplane," and who has taken over the creative reins from the Wayans brothers. Most of the spoofing is at the expense of movies like "Signs," "The Ring" and the first two "Matrix" movies. The funniest sequence in a comedy that revels in knockabout farce and has the attention span of a hyperactive child is a strenuous group effort to revive a corpse, first through some alarmingly aggressive artificial respiration, then through slapping and slamming the body until it breaks apart. Think of "Scary Movie 3" as an accelerated junk-culture vaudeville with a Mad magazine sensibility (Holden).

* "SCHOOL OF ROCK," starring Jack Black, Joan Cusack, Sarah Silverman and Mike White. Directed by Richard Linklater (PG-13, 110 minutes). Mr. Black gives a roaring, star-making performance as Dewey Finn, an out-of-work heavy-metal rocker who impersonates a substitute teacher and turns a class of nerdy fifth graders into a rock band. Mr. Black's incandescent comic energy should establish him as the screen's most popular rock-fueled wild man since John Belushi. Under the nose of the prim school principal (Ms. Cusack), Dewey, who knows nothing of academics, preaches the gospel of rock 'n' roll and secretly converts the class from loving Christina Aguilera and the musical "Annie" to cheering Led Zeppelin and AC/DC. This family-friendly movie, which has a big, rousing "Rocky"-style finale and isn't believable for a second, is a hilarious cotton-candy fantasy with a beat. It knows just where to draw the line to avoid becoming too cute, too esoteric or too risque (Holden).

* "SHATTERED GLASS," starring Hayden Christensen, Chloe Sevigny and Peter Sarsgaard. Written and directed by Billy Ray (PG-13, 90 minutes). The story of Stephen Glass, a brilliant young journalist at The New Republic who turned out to be a profligate fabricator, might have inspired a dishy, cynical expose of the insular, cut-throat world of magazine journalism. Instead, Mr. Ray relates Glass's downfall with minimal embellishment and turns a tawdry anecdote into a sober, curiously thrilling examination of moral recklessness and office intrigue. What starts out as a sharp workplace comedy gradually darkens into a kind of managerial film noir as Glass (played with a perfect mixture of creepiness and charm by Mr. Christensen) is pursued by Charles Lane (Mr. Sarsgaard), the magazine's editor and, in this version at least, the savior of its honor. With considerable ingenuity and wit, the movie's center of gravity shifts from Glass to Lane, and its ideas -- about workplace loyalty, journalistic ethics and the line between ambition and pathology -- are all the more forceful for being delivered in a whisper (Scott).

*"SYLVIA," starring Gwyneth Paltrow and Daniel Craig. Directed by Christine Jeffs (R, 110 minutes). Since her suicide in 1963 at 30, Sylvia Plath's life, her work and her marriage to Ted Hughes have been the subject of endless argument, and Plath herself has become a quasi-allegorical figure -- a feminist martyr and a symbol of poetic misery. Ms. Jeffs's film is relatively even-handed in its treatment of Hughes (Mr. Craig) and turns its subject from a case study in literary pathology into the heroine of a modern literary opera. The film, shot in dark, oversaturated colors by John Toon, is itself oversaturated with feeling. Rather than try to explain Plath's death, or examine the roots of her poetry, Ms. Jeffs and Ms. Paltrow burrow deep into her personality, leaving its essential, unsettling mysteries intact. Ms. Paltrow is a vivid, passionate presence throughout the film -- she is rarely off the screen -- and she charts the jagged course of Plath's abbreviated adulthood with ardor and intelligence. The movie turns biography into melodrama, but it does so out of a fierce, fascinated loyalty to Plath, who after all did much the same thing in her best poems (Scott).

"TUPAC: RESURRECTION," directed by Lauren Lazin (R, 90 minutes). Ms. Lazin's documentary about the life and work of the rap star and actor Tupac Shakur is less a biography than a posthumous memoir, narrated from beyond the grave by its subject, who was killed in a drive-by shooting in 1996. Ms. Lazin uses audio and video clips, interviews, still photographs and handwritten lyrics to give Shakur the chance to reflect on his short, dramatic and remarkably productive life. "This is my story," he says. "Ambition, redemption, violence and love." There is also controversy, legal trouble, a difficult childhood and some jail time -- as well as snippets from Shakur's fresh, diverse and provocative music. As its title suggests, the movie is less concerned with analyzing Shakur than with bringing him back to life, for which his fans can only be grateful. For everyone else, this film provides the affecting, partial portrait -- you might even say the self-portrait -- of a talented young man (he was 25 when he died) whose fate was to be misunderstood, perhaps most tragically by himself (Scott).

GRAPHIC: Photos: The rap star and actor Tupac Shakur in Lauren Lazin's documentary "Tupac: Resurrection." (Photo by Paramount Pictures); Russell Crowe as Jack Aubrey in "Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World." (Photo by Stephen Vaughan/20th Century Fox) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MOVIE RATINGS (78%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (75%); ANIMALS (73%); FILM GENRES (73%); ANIMATED FILMS (73%); ADOPTION (69%); CHRISTMAS (66%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: JAMES E FERRELL (74%); NICOLE KIDMAN (58%); JIM CARREY (58%); ADAM SANDLER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORTHWEST USA (71%); WEST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003 



500 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers Move to Halt Cuts in Aid For College 

BYLINE:  By GREG WINTER 

 BODY:
A change in the government's financial aid formula that would force millions of students to pay more for their college educations will probably be suspended while lawmakers look for other options, Congressional leaders said yesterday. 
 Democrats and Republicansin a House-Senate conference committee said they had agreed to halt the new financial aid rules for at least a year. 
 "We were able to stop these punitive changes," said Senator Jon Corzine, a New Jersey Democrat who introduced legislation that ultimately yielded a deal.
"We need to be looking for ways to expand access to college education, not restrict it," Mr. Corzine said. 
Late last May, in a bureaucratic move that caught colleges and legislators off guard, the Department of Education revised the formula by which billions of dollars in financial aid are distributed every year. The department defended the changes as a legal necessity, but members of Congress quickly took the offensive, characterizing them as a backdoor way of cutting education aid without facing the public. 
Drawing from the department's own figures, the Congressional Research Service reported that the new formula would effectively bar about 84,000 students from receiving Pell grants, the federal government's largest scholarship program. 
Beyond that, government scholarships would be reduced by about $270 million, because hundreds of thousands of other students would probably receive smaller awards. Countless state grants and scholarships given by universities themselves could also be affected, educational experts warned, because they are often governed by the federal formula as well. 
At issue is a seemingly small modification to the way the government decides how much students should pay for college.
For the most part, a series of simple calculations lie at the heart of it all, responsible for determining how much of a family's income is discretionary, and therefore free to cover college expenses. 
Much as with federal income tax, families can deduct some of what they pay in state and local taxes when calculating their available income. But this year, for the first time in almost a decade, the Department of Education reduced those deductions, even though state taxes have recently gone up, not down. 
Reducing the deduction would make it seem, on paper, that families had more money to pay for college. As a result, many students would receive smaller scholarships because they theoretically need less help, while others would no longer qualify for grants at all because their families suddenly appeared to earn too much.
Senator Tom Harkin, an Iowa Democrat who helped negotiate the deal, said he would have preferred to see Congress increase higher education spending to bolster access to college. Barring that, Mr. Harkin said, the deal "will at least save Pell grants for the 84,000 students who depend on them."
Senator Arlen Specter, the Pennsylvania Republican who also helped work out the deal, said he was "very much concerned" that the government's formula for calculating financial aid might be flawed, particularly in its assessment of how much families truly pay in state taxes. 
The Department of Education's most recent data come from 2000, near the end of a booming era when state taxes had been cut every year since the mid-1990's, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. 
By this fall, however, state taxes had been raised for two years in a row, making for what some members of Congress have called a different economic reality than the one on which the federal financial aid formula is based. 
Some disconnect between the formula and the current economic climate is inevitable, the department contends, because accurate data are slow to be compiled.
Nonetheless, Congressional leaders said that under their deal they will appoint an independent commission to study whether the government's methodology is sound, reflecting what families actually pay in taxes. If better alternatives exist, Congressional leaders say, they are determined to find them. 
"It was too complicated to decide by the seat of our pants," Mr. Specter said on Wednesday. "I think that we're now in position to talk about it intelligently." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); FAMILY (86%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (63%); INCOME TAX (50%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; TUITION 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (55%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (73%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%) WINTER, GREG 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003 



501 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Demonstration Turns Violent at Trade Talks in Miami 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
Several dozen violent protesters clashed with the police just 200 yards from a trade ministers' meeting on Thursday as more than 10,000 demonstrators held a peaceful march to protest President Bush's push to create a free trade zone throughout the Americas.
 The confrontation involved a group of several hundred demonstrators, including many self-styled anarchists and others who threw bottles, rocks and smoke bombs on Biscayne Boulevard, the main avenue in Miami. The police responded with pepper spray, rubber bullets and stun guns. After protesters set several trash fires, some 300 police officers in riot gear spread across the avenue and pushed slowly north, seeking to disperse them. 
 The clash came as trade ministers, meeting at the conference center of the Intercontinental Hotel, reached a partial accord that fell short of the framework for an agreement that would end tariffs among 34 nations in the Western Hemisphere. Protesters insisted that the agreement to set up a Free Trade Area of the Americas, known as the F.T.A.A., would reward corporations and hurt workers and the environment. 
The protests on Thursday brought together many of the same groups that held a huge demonstration in Seattle in 1999 at a meeting of the World Trade Organization: union members, environmentalists, human rights groups, animal rights groups and trade activists. But the protests in Miami were considerably smaller, and organizers acknowledged that the city did not have the labor and environmental movement that Seattle had.
"I'm here to protest because I just see the F.T.A.A. causing a major loss of jobs for our people to countries that pay $1 an hour with no pension and no health care," said Dave Richards, a Teamster from Akron, Ohio. "I don't see it as a win-win. I see it as a lose-lose."
Administration officials say the free trade proposal would spur trade, lower prices for consumers, force producers to become more competitive and create more jobs in the United States and other countries in the hemisphere. 
As in Seattle, the bulk of the protesters were peaceful and many of them derided the violence. Many chanted, "No Way, F.T.A.A.," and some held up huge papier-mache puppets, including one of a giant Uncle Sam with a sign that read, "I Want You to Learn From Nafta. No More Rotten Trade Deals."
Many demonstrators said the police were too aggressive, too numerous and too intimidating. The police cordoned off many streets, and some residents said that when they approached to ask a question, some officers began to draw their guns.
Lt. Bill Schwartz, a spokesman for the Miami Police Department, said the police did an excellent job maintaining order, with some officials noting that there was not the broken windows and other property damage of the Seattle protests.
"Everything that we're doing is falling into place like a well-oiled machine," Lieutenant Schwartz said. "I believe we have been having success so far, which means minimal violence, because of the show of force. Folks who have been around here for a few days see that we are well trained and well manned."
The police blocked entry to an A.F.L.-C.I.O. rally at a waterfront amphitheater, saying it was too full. Labor organizers said thousands more could fit. The police also blocked access to a dozen portable bathrooms rented for the occasion. A.F.L.-C.I.O. officials estimated that 13,000 people were at that rally and 17,000 in the march downtown. 
When the United Students Against Sweatshops held a rally at a downtown department store, asserting that it sold goods made in a Mexican sweatshop, 100 protesters were met by nearly 200 police officers, many carrying riot shields and clubs. 
"It's overkill, there's too many of them," said Nicole Lee, a human-rights lawyer from Washington. "If there's violence, it will be because it was escalated by the police."
The police said 81 protesters were arrested on charges including assaulting a police officer, resisting arrest and burglary. Ten protesters and three police officers had minor injuries. 
Thea Lee, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s top international economist, said she was caught as the police advanced on Biscayne Boulevard. She said the police continued shooting rubber bullets as protesters moved back.
"I've never seen anything like this show of force and the abuse of ordinary people," Ms. Lee said.
The organizers of the protest, including the A.F.L.-C.I.O., Friends of the Earth and the Citizens Trade Campaign, say they hope to persuade President Bush and Congress to drop the free trade plan. Protesters say a free trade area would make it harder for countries to regulate the environment and food safety and would encourage privatization of resources like water. One of their biggest fears is that the free-trade accord would imitate the North American Free Trade Agreement and not include labor, environmental and human rights in the main accord.
At the amphitheater rally, John J. Sweeney, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said: "What we need are new rules, rules that protect workers' rights and human rights, rules that protect the environment, rules that rein in the corporate grip on the global marketplace."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The police pushed back protesters yesterday in Miami, where officials were meeting to discuss creating a free-trade zone throughout the Americas. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (93%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (91%); RIOTS (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); POLICE FORCES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (67%); JOB CREATION (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (65%); LAYOFFS (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (65%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; FREE PORTS AND TRADING ZONES 

ORGANIZATION: FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%); AKRON, OH, USA (72%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (90%) MIAMI (FLA); LATIN AMERICA

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003 



502 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: Eastern Germany Is Able to Prevent Industrial Flight To Third World 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: DRESDEN, Germany, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
Hector Ruiz was not yet working for Advanced Micro Devices, the Silicon Valley chip maker, when it announced plans in the mid-1990's to build a factory in this slumbering eastern German city. But he remembers the catcalls aimed at Advanced Micro.
 "Why would you go to Europe?" the company was repeatedly asked. "Why would you go to Germany? And on top of that, why would you go to East Germany?" 
 On Thursday, Mr. Ruiz came here as Advanced Micro's chief executive to announce that the company -- which has long operated in the shadow of Intel, the largest semiconductor maker -- will build a second chip factory in Dresden, a $2.4 billion project that is by far the most significant foreign investment in Germany this year. 
 There is a simple explanation why Dresden edged out other cities and towns, including East Fishkill, N.Y., and Austin, Tex. The government here kicked in $1.5 billion worth of subsidies, financing and loan guarantees -- a dollop of largess that most American cities would not match.
 But there are other, perhaps more important reasons for Advanced Micro's decision, and they speak to the complex nature of the global battle for foreign investment. Education, infrastructure, the lack of export restrictions on technology, even the Protestant work ethic in this old city -- all played a role in the company's choice.
 For nations like Germany, with high labor costs, promoting these less tangible qualities is the only way they can hope to compete for big projects against low-cost Asian countries, particularly China.
 "The money is good," said Martin Gillo, the minister of labor and economics for Saxony, the eastern German state where Dresden is the capital. "But the money is good wherever you build a semiconductor factory, be it in Singapore or China or the south of France or East Fishkill."
 Ask people here how long Germany can keep new chip factories from migrating to China, and they shrug their shoulders. "Their wages are much lower, they're just as smart as we are, and they're willing to work at least as hard as us," said Tillmann Blaschke, the managing director of a joint venture of A.M.D. and a rival chip maker, Infineon Technologies of Munich, that also makes photo masks for etching semiconductors.
 Local victories like the new Advanced Micro factory may help explain why the economic rise of China has not yet aroused the kind of emotions in Germany as in some areas of the United States, where the loss of manufacturing jobs to Asia and Latin America, and the fear that many white-collar jobs are to follow, has become a hot-button political issue. 
 It is not that Germany has avoided job losses. This week, for example, Epcos, a Munich-based maker of electronics components, said it would shift 500 jobs to China, Singapore and Portugal. And unemployment figures are higher in Germany than in the United States.
 Still, the nature of German industry -- with its emphasis on highly engineered, capital-intensive products -- has made it less vulnerable to a wholesale transfer of factories to China. Indeed, China has been a voracious consumer of German machines, helping to buoy exports.
 "If you're sitting in Germany, China is not that big a deal," said Daniel Gros, the director of the Center for European Policy Studies in Brussels. "If you're in Italy, which has a textile industry, it is a big deal."
 The economic development of Saxony -- or, as local boosters like to call it, "Silicon Saxony" -- illustrates the advantages and limitations of industrialized regions in competing with Asia. The center of the East German semiconductor industry during Communist times, Saxony aggressively courted chip producers after the fall of the Berlin Wall. Infineon, a spinoff from Siemens, was the first company to set up in Dresden, opening a memory-chip plant in 1995.
 Much of Saxony's appeal was built on financial incentives. But it also promoted its educational resources: 20 colleges, 4 universities and 38 research institutes. Seventeen percent of the work force has a college education, an unusually high percentage in the former East Germany.
 Wages in Saxony, while higher than in Eastern Europe, are 15 percent lower than in western Germany. And labor unions hold less sway here -- made clear by the inability of the large and militant union, IG Metall, to force a reduction in the workweek here to 35 hours from 38.
 Seventy-three American companies now have operations in Saxony, employing more than 10,000 people. 
 In addition to chip makers, Saxony has attracted German automakers. Porsche and Volkswagen have assembly plants here, while BMW is building a plant in Leipzig. Volkswagen produces its new luxury sedan, the Phaeton, in a dazzling glass-and-steel factory that has become a Dresden landmark.
 Yet these brand-name investors have not been sufficient to rid Saxony of the large-scale unemployment that has afflicted eastern Germany since reunification in 1990. The jobless rate here is 16.5 percent.
 Because of these hardships, the European Union has allowed Saxony and other eastern German states to offer foreign companies subsidies worth up to 35 percent of the value of their investment. To attract Advanced Micro, Saxony and the German government offered $500 million in grants and allowances, guaranteed 80 percent of the company's $700 million in construction loans, and invested $320 million more.
 "A.M.D. can't afford to stump up $2.4 billion" for a chip factory, said Ben Lynch, an analyst at Deutsche Bank, adding, "They have a lousy balance sheet, and are one-tenth the size of Intel."
 The trouble is that under European rules, Saxony will not be able to offer such sweeteners after 2006. Then, eastern Germany will find itself in a weaker position as it competes with Poland, Romania and other Eastern European countries, which will still be entitled to offer subsidies.
 For now, Germany still offers advantages to advanced semiconductor makers like A.M.D. China requires investors to work with a local partner, which can amount to a transfer of the foreign company's innovative technology. The United States also bans the export of the most sophisticated semiconductor technology to China for national security reasons.
 "The government restrictions are pretty tough," Mr. Ruiz said. "We would not be allowed to install certain pieces of equipment. For this kind of facility, China would have been very difficult."
 Advanced Micro's plant, expected to open in 2006, will produce chips on 300-millimeter wafers with the most intricate circuitry its researchers can devise. With a width of 65 nanometers, they will be twice as fine as anything produced in existing plants (a nanometer is one-billionth of a meter; 100 nanometers are roughly 1/1000 the width of a human hair).
 In China, AMD operates a much simpler assembly and testing plant in the city of Suzhou. Infineon, which has its most complex production in Dresden, has a research and development center in China. But it licenses chip production to local Chinese partners.
 Matthias Poth, a senior vice president, said Infineon aimed to increase the number of employees in China to 3,000, from 800 now, within a few years. "It's developing very fast," he said.
 Few experts doubt that in a decade, China will be able to compete in much more advanced segments of the semiconductor industry. Spending on new chip factories in China, Malaysia and Singapore is likely to exceed that in Europe by 2005, according to the market research firm VLSI.
 Indeed, as Mr. Ruiz gazed out on the quiet, well-ordered grounds of his Dresden factory and reminisced excitedly about his first visit to China in the 1980's, the future of the chip industry seemed inescapable.
 "If I were building a factory 10 years from now," he said, "China would be a real consideration."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers at a photo mask technology center in Dresden give evidence why many employers prefer to remain. (Photo by Matthias Rietschel for The New York Times)(pg. C2) Map of Germany highlighting Dresden. (pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MFG (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); CITIES (77%); ETHICS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); TRENDS (60%); EXPORT CONTROLS (51%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; COMPUTER CHIPS 

COMPANY: ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (92%); INTEL CORP (58%); INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES AG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES 

TICKER: AMD (NYSE) (92%); AMD (FRA) (92%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); IFX (FRA) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: HECTOR DE J RUIZ (89%) LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SACHSEN, GERMANY (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) GERMANY (97%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%) GERMANY; DRESDEN (GERMANY); FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003 



503 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Trade Talks In Miami End Early 

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
The United States and Brazil abruptly called an early end on Thursday to talks aimed at creating a 34-nation trade agreement in the Western Hemisphere after concluding there was little left to discuss here aside from a vague framework that allows officials to continue negotiating.
 The talks had originally been scheduled to end on Friday. 
 The co-chairmen of this week's talks, Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, and Celso Amorim, Brazil's foreign minister, described the meeting as a success. In at least one way they were right, because they avoided a collapse similar to the one two months ago at a meeting of the World Trade Organization in Cancun, Mexico. 
 But in several ways, the conclusion of the negotiations laid bare the difficulty United States negotiators had in making concessions sought by Brazil and Argentina on agricultural tariffs and subsidies. Such changes would have put President Bush in a difficult situation in critical electoral states like Florida, which has large sugar and citrus industries, and in several states on the Plains and in Georgia, where beef production is important.
 In fact, the United States and Brazil reached a deal in the days before this week's talks that removed difficult agricultural issues from the negotiating agenda, in addition to topics like intellectual property protection and government contracts, effectively shifting these areas to conflict-resolution negotiations in the W.T.O.
 Resistance to that deal from a group of 13 countries led by Canada and Chile withered this week after the United States and Brazil made it clear they had little intention of changing their positions. The two nations' rigidity led some negotiators and other officials at the talks to question whether the main purpose of the negotiations was an attempt to avoid an embarrassing outcome in Miami, a city vying to be selected as the headquarters of the trade agreement, called the Free Trade Area of the Americas.
 "This is nothing but a desperate attempt by Bob Zoellick to save face," said Thea M. Lee, chief international economist for the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
 The document prepared by the 34 ministers at the meeting included only one important deadline, Sept. 30, 2004, for improving market access conditions for products. There were no deadlines set for thorny issues like agricultural tariffs and government contracts. 
 Mr. Zoellick tried to put a positive spin on the outcome of this week's talks, describing the "tremendous challenge" of putting together a trading area that includes every nation in the hemisphere except Cuba. Recognizing the difficulty of reaching such an outcome by the deadline of early 2005, the United States also announced this week its intent to pursue free trade agreements with only six Latin American nations: Bolivia, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Panama and Peru.
 As the negotiations broke off, business groups in the United States with potentially the most to lose from the lowering of tariffs and barriers to trade in the hemisphere, among them Florida's citrus industry, expressed relief that their products remained mostly off-limits.
 "We've been told our tariff is safe for the time being, at least," said Andrew W. LaVigne, executive vice president of Florida Citrus Mutual, an association representing 11,000 citrus growers, which has been seeking to retain a 29-cent tariff on each gallon of imported orange juice. 
 Mr. LaVigne said, however, that he had no guarantees that the tariff would indefinitely remain absent from talks conducted by United States trade negotiators. 
 Still, while business executives publicly displayed optimism that a range of topics could continue to be included in negotiations over the next year or so, some privately lamented the stalemate atmosphere that prevailed during the talks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (88%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); AGRICULTURE (73%); BEEF (73%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (65%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (51%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); MEXICO (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); CHILE (79%); ECUADOR (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (77%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003 



504 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Voices Concerns on U.S. Efforts to Limit Imports 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, has implicitly criticized the Bush administration's increasingly combative stance against foreign imports.
 Speaking on Thursday, just two days after the Commerce Department announced plans to impose new import quotas on selected Chinese textiles, Mr. Greenspan warned that the "clouds of emerging protectionism" raised new risks for the global economy. 
The Fed chairman did not specifically mention the Bush administration, but he attached his warning as a "major caveat" to an otherwise upbeat assessment about the nation's growing trade and financial deficit with the rest of the world. 
 His main message was that the global economy had become far more flexible and open to cross-border financial flows, and that flexible economies like those of the United States were most likely to adjust to financial imbalances without great disruption.
 But, he said, "Over the years, protected interests have often endeavored to stop in its tracks the process of unsettling economic change." He added: "Virtually all such efforts have failed. Consequently, it is imperative that creeping protectionism be thwarted and reversed."
 Trent Duffy, a spokesman for President Bush, declined to comment on Mr. Greenspan's remarks, though he said, "The Bush administration will remain committed to free and open trade, but trade on a level playing field."
 Speaking at a conference here organized by the libertarian Cato Institute and The Economist magazine, Mr. Greenspan gave one of his most detailed assessments yet of the United States' huge current account deficit, the combined measure of the nation's trade and international capital flows.
 That deficit totals about $500 billion this year, a record in absolute terms and as a share of the nation's total economy. It has been driven primarily by the continued large trade deficit, including a deficit with China of well over $100 billion this year, as well as by big new borrowing to cover federal budget deficits.
 Mr. Greenspan acknowledged that the current account deficit was at record levels and was unsustainable.
 But, he contended, the nation's economy is open and flexible enough that the inevitable adjustments, like a continuation of this year's decline in the foreign exchange value of the dollar, are most likely to be gradual.
 "There is, for the moment, little evidence of stress in funding U.S. current account deficits," Mr. Greenspan said. "Inflation, the typical symptom of a weak currency, appears quiescent."
 The current account deficit is equal to about 5 percent of the total American economy. Total net foreign claims on United States residents -- the United States assets owned by foreigners versus the foreign assets owned by Americans -- is equal to about 25 percent of the total economy. 
 "History suggests that greater flexibility allows economies to adjust more smoothly to changing economic circumstances and with less risk of destabilizing outcomes," Mr. Greenspan said.
 The Fed chairman made his comments as the United States was forced to settle for a modest announcement of an intent to pursue free trade agreements with just six Latin American countries at talks in Miami aimed at creating a Free Trade Area of the Americas by 2005.
 Brazil, by far the largest economy in Latin America, has been balking at any kind of sweeping plan because it objects to the United States' refusal to drop its own trade barriers on agricultural products.
 The Bush Administration is also edging toward a serious trade crisis with Europe over American steel tariffs, which the administration imposed last year and which have been declared illegal by the World Trade Organization.
 But global investors were particularly rattled earlier this week, when the Commerce Department announced plans to impose temporary import quotas on Chinese knitted fabrics as well as bras and dressing gowns.
Although China exported only about $497 million of such products last year, investors fretted that the move might be the start of a broader slide toward protectionism. That helped drive the dollar to a record low against the euro earlier this week. On Thursday, the euro stood at $1.1920. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); BUDGETS (76%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (75%); CURRENCIES (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); TRENDS (70%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); CATO INSTITUTE (54%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003 



505 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Clark Offers Plan to Build New Alliance 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT and DIANE CARDWELL 

 BODY:
Gen. Wesley K. Clark accused the Bush administration yesterday of "wrecking NATO" with a unilateral policy on Iraq, and he angrily denounced as a smear a former colleague's statement that he was replaced as NATO commander early because of questions of character.
 General Clark was one of two candidates for the Democratic nomination for president who sought yesterday to play to their strengths with what aides characterized as major policy addresses. In Palo Alto, Calif., Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut emphasized his integrity theme, accusing President Bush of "handing over public policy to private interests," including putting industry lobbyists in charge of regulating the industries for which they once worked. 
 General Clark, speaking at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, said that if elected he would seek to build a new alliance of European and Middle Eastern nations to pursue a policy of "collective preemption" against terrorism and the proliferation of unconventional weapons. He said the administration was right in seeking to update the doctrine of collective security and deterrence, the linchpin of American foreign policy in the cold war. "But," he added, "it is wrong to insist that the alternative must be unilateral pre-emption." 
A new alliance, which he calls the Atlantic Charter, would "enable us together with our allies to reach beyond the periphery of Europe to effect a security equation that is increasingly global." 
The United States would, however, retain the right to act in its interest if its allies failed to back it, he said.
Although he named no prospective members of the Atlantic Charter from the Middle East, General Clark said in an interview on Wednesday that he would invite Israel and a number of Arab countries to join.
The Atlantic Charter would be modeled on NATO's "Partnership for Peace," a sort of junior NATO status, without a military umbrella, that was offered to Eastern European counties after the collapse of the Soviet Union.
Asked by an audience member about his departure from NATO in 2000, General Clark sharply criticized Gen. Henry H. Shelton, former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who said in September that General Clark left his position early because of "integrity and character issues."
Without mentioning General Shelton by name, General Clark said that nothing in his military record "has any suggestion about my character or integrity." Banging his hand on the podium for emphasis, he added: "Let me just underscore this -- those words, whether they were intended or not, whether they were misspoken or not -- haven't been retracted, and they constitute a smear, and I don't appreciate it."
General Clark restated his feelings about General Shelton's comments to David Letterman, for a show broadcast last night. 
He said any question of character was answered when he moved to "stand up and help the United States do what was right in the situation in the Balkans," where he successfully argued for the use of force in Kosovo. 
Senator Lieberman hammered away on the issue of integrity in his address to the Silicon Valley Commonwealth Club in Palo Alto.
"George Bush has compromised the people's trust in their government and confidence in their economy by handing over public policy to private interests," the senator said. "He has not just let them inside, he has often put them in charge of the very federal agencies created to protect the people."
Mr. Lieberman has touched on these themes before, but he used his speech to go into far greater detail in his indictment of Mr. Bush, accusing him of having the "foxes guarding the foxes" by putting former lobbyists into watchdog positions.
"When you put these public agencies, these watchdogs, in the hands of private interests they are supposed to oversee, you turn the meaning of government on its head," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gen. Wesley K. Clark spoke to the Council on Foreign Relations. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); ETHICS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); LOBBYING (76%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (73%); TERRORISM (68%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ETHICS; ELECTION ISSUES; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (91%) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JOE LIEBERMAN (73%); DAVID LETTERMAN (50%) WYATT, EDWARD; CARDWELL, DIANE; CLARK, WESLEY K (GEN) (RET); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); ISRAEL (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%) IRAQ; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2003 



506 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart and Wages 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Wal-Mart's cost-cutting techniques ("The Wal-Martization of America," editorial, Nov. 15) are widespread. Nearly 30 million American workers -- one in four -- earn wages that keep them below the federal poverty line for a family of four, unable to provide for themselves and their families. 
As taxpayers, we involuntarily subsidize their employers with the food stamps, child care and housing vouchers and other support their employees rely on to make ends meet. 
 The solutions you propose, while admirable, don't go far enough. The minimum wage has been frozen at $5.15 since 1997. We need to raise it and make health insurance affordable for all families. 
We can make choices about our economy. We have before, from ending child labor to making workplace discrimination illegal. Today, instead of offering more Wal-Mart wages, we can choose to be a country that ensures that its hard-working citizens can provide for their families.

BETH SHULMAN
Washington, Nov. 17, 2003

The writer is the author of a book about low-wage work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); FAMILY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (77%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); CHILD LABOR (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (58%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003 



507 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Free Trade, a la Carte 

 BODY:
It was a good week for protectionists in Brazil and for subsidized American farmers. The outcome of this week's hemispheric trade gathering in Miami suggests that both will continue to be shielded from full competition in a global market. It also means the ambitious effort to create a mammoth free trade area throughout North and South America by 2005, begun with such fanfare nine years ago, runs the risk of being downsized to a point of near irrelevance. 
 There was no acrimonious meltdown in Miami, to be sure, as there was in September at the World Trade Organization meeting in Cancun. The 34 trade ministers -- from all hemispheric nations but Cuba -- agreed to further negotiations toward the creation of the Free Trade Area of the Americas. But it's a vague plan that caters to the lowest common denominator. Brazil and the United States forced upon the other nations a framework that calls for talks in nine areas -- like intellectual property rights and agriculture -- while giving countries the right not to take on all the obligations in any one of them. Call it free trade, a la carte. 
 Brazil, by far Latin America's largest economy, has never been eager to create a meaningful free trade area for the entire hemisphere. It would like to protect its industry from outside competition, and it has no desire to agree to the types of rules governing intellectual property, investment and government procurement that should be part of a muscular trade deal.
That ambivalence was to be expected, but American negotiators' deference to it was rather shocking. Nations like Canada, Mexico and Chile -- strong Washington allies that have already signed ambitious trade deals with the United States -- could not help but feel betrayed by the outcome in Miami. Washington says it wants to strike more ambitious deals with individual Latin American nations, but the prospect of a patchwork of minideals is a messy one, and one potentially unfair to those countries that have made greater concessions to Washington.
The Bush administration succumbed to Brazil's ambivalence because of its unwillingness to end America's trade-distorting farm subsidies. At the W.T.O.'s gathering in Cancun, the United States sided with the European Union on this point and against Brazil. Agriculture is of immense importance to Latin America because its farmers can compete against American agribusiness in some markets if given a level playing field. 
The Bush administration's disturbing pattern of defensively siding with the most obstructionist party at these international negotiations mirrors its domestic strategy of trying to placate narrow protectionist special interests, be they steel makers, cotton farmers or the textile lobby. Both at home and abroad, this approach is a recipe for disaster.

Harvesting Poverty: Editorials in this series remain online at nytimes.com/harvestingpoverty.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial; Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); AGRICULTURE (73%); LOBBYING (73%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (73%); COTTON FARMING (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); BRAZIL (95%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (87%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); CHILE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003 



508 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Death By Dividend 

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF; E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

DATELINE: COATEPEQUE, Guatemala 

 BODY:
In this impoverished corner of southwestern Guatemala, lush with jungle and burbling brooks, you can just about see people dying as an indirect result of America's trade agenda.
 Even now, some governments in Central America choose to let their people die rather than distribute cheap generic AIDS drugs, which would save more lives but might irritate the U.S. And now America is trying to make it more difficult for these countries to use generic drugs. 
 That's why I decided to write about the Free Trade Area of the Americas, or F.T.A.A., not from Miami, where the negotiations were under way this week, but from rural Guatemala. Here it's easier to appreciate the stark choice that we Americans face: Do we want to maximize profits for U.S. pharmaceutical companies, or do we want to save lives? 
American trade negotiators, in both the Clinton and Bush administrations, have pushed U.S. interests in a narrow economic sense by making it difficult for poor nations to use cheap generic medicines. In front of the television cameras, the U.S. has made some concessions to public health needs, but the compassion usually vanishes in trade negotiations.
The public drafts of the F.T.A.A. clearly place the priority on patents over public health, and the word is that the (still secret) draft text of a Central American Free Trade Agreement should also embarrass us.
"An F.T.A.A. agreement with strong I.P. intellectual property provisions threatens to have a catastrophic impact on the lives of millions of people living with H.I.V./ AIDS and other diseases," warns Doctors Without Borders, the Nobel Peace Prize-winning aid group.
I know, I know. Mention "intellectual property" and eyes glaze over. But meet the people whose lives are at stake. 
Juan Emiliano Sanchez, 51, may be too far gone to be saved. A farmer with a son in San Rafael, Calif., Mr. Sanchez has advanced AIDS and is so frail that he can barely walk. "I really want to fight this as long as I can," he said, his face glistening with a feverish sweat, but it looks as if that won't be long.
Maria Gloria Geronimo is a different story. A 27-year-old hotel maid, she was infected with H.I.V. by her husband, and she in turn passed the virus to their son, Rony, during childbirth. Desperate to save Rony's life, Ms. Geronimo trekked around Guatemala until she found an AIDS clinic where Doctors Without Borders uses generic antiretrovirals to treat AIDS. Both she and Rony, who is now 5, are strong again.
Should drug company profits be more important than the lives of Mr. Sanchez, Ms. Geronimo and Rony?
"I don't understand how it's in the interests of Americans to pursue policies that are going to lead to the deaths of tens of thousands, maybe even millions," says Robert Weissman, an intellectual property lawyer in Washington who is co-director of Essential Action, which monitors trade agreements.
The U.S. trade officials I spoke with vigorously deny that they are insensitive to third-world health needs. But almost every expert I spoke to outside the U.S. government said that the U.S. continued to place hurdles in front of the use of generics to save lives. 
Even now, ahead of the F.T.A.A., Guatemala and Honduras avoid using generic antiretrovirals for fear of offending the U.S. Guatemala, for example, has 67,000 people, including 5,000 children, with H.I.V. or AIDS. Most will die. Astonishingly, the country spends most of its scarce AIDS money on brand-name drugs rather than cheaper generics, which could treat three times as many people. Honduras does the same, preferring to let people die than use generics.
Why would these countries do this? The doctors and public health officials I interviewed said that Central American nations had a strong desire to curry favor with Washington, which is perceived as hostile to generics.
I'm a firm believer in trade agreements, and the U.S. trade representative, Robert Zoellick, has done an excellent job promoting them -- and, he's the only one in the Bush administration paying attention to Latin America. But I find it appalling that we Americans are putting a priority on patents rather than patients, and that we are prepared to sacrifice sick people like Mr. Sanchez, Ms. Geronimo and Rony -- just so companies like Bristol-Myers Squibb can increase their dividends. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); GENERIC DRUGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ANTIVIRALS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (77%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); NOBEL PRIZES (72%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (68%); AWARDS & PRIZES (68%); PATENTS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (63%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (61%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (98%); GUATEMALA (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (55%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003 



509 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: A Special Relationship, or an Abusive One? 

BYLINE:  By David Cannadine; David Cannadine, professor of history at the Institute of Historical Research at the University of London, is author of "In Churchill's Shadow."

 BODY:
Toward the end of the 19th century, Rudyard Kipling wrote two prescient poems that should be required reading for any student of the latter-day British-American "special relationship," which has just been so effusively reaffirmed -- albeit amid protests -- by George W. Bush and Tony Blair across the Atlantic. The first poem, published to coincide with Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee of 1897, was titled "Recessional." But instead of celebrating, as might have been expected, the greatness of the far-flung British Empire, Kipling drew attention to the transience of earthly power, and the ephemerality of global dominion: "Lo, all our pomp of yesterday is one with Nineveh and Tyre."
 Shortly after, he produced "The White Man's Burden," a more upbeat poem intended for a very different audience. Addressed to Americans, and sent directly to Theodore Roosevelt, the poem urged the United States to take unabashed advantage of its recent conquest of the Philippines. It was, Roosevelt opined, "rather poor poetry, but good sense from the expansionist viewpoint." 
 During the 20th century, the respective histories of the United Kingdom and the United States followed precisely the trajectories that Kipling had sketched out. The British Empire, after a final expansionist fling in the aftermath of the First World War, went into recessional mode, beginning with the independence of India in 1947 and ending with the return of Hong Kong to the Chinese 50 years later. Meanwhile, Uncle Sam succeeded John Bull as the greatest power in the West: in part through his intervention in the First World War and more sustained involvement in the Second; in part because of his increasing military, economic and cultural dominance; and in part through a host of global agencies that he controlled.
Thus were Kipling's poetic predictions borne out as the 20th century unfolded. But there was no historical precedent for one great power superseding another in a non-antagonistic way. The United Kingdom and the United States have not gone to war with each other since 1812. Instead, they have confronted common enemies, from Germany to Japan to Russia -- to Iraq. They are also united by the same language, laws and literature, and by a shared history. Hence the "special relationship" between the two countries, so much on display in London this week -- a rich and unique amalgam of sentiment and nostalgia, but also of realism and realpolitik, which reached its apogee in the wartime alliance of Roosevelt and Churchill, but which has been regularly refreshed and renewed, by Macmillan and Kennedy, Thatcher and Reagan, and now by Blair and Bush.
Yet this is by no means the whole of the story. In 20th-century Britain, there was (and perhaps still is) resentment at the ruthlessness and completeness with which the United States replaced the United Kingdom as a great power. Churchill's relations with Roosevelt were far more fraught than is suggested by the popular image of the two as comrades in arms, and it took the British years to recover from what they saw as America's betrayal over Suez. Nor were these trans-Atlantic irritations confined to the British side. Roosevelt had no intention of fighting the Second World War to preserve the British Empire, which he deeply detested. And Lyndon Johnson never forgave Harold Wilson for refusing to send British troops to fight alongside Americans in Vietnam.
Of course, it can be argued that, like any marriage, this relationship has had its inevitable share of ups and downs. But unlike most modern marriages, the British-American alliance has always been intrinsically asymmetrical, and it has become more so year by year. For as America's global role has expanded, while Britain's has diminished, the allure of trans-Atlantic camaraderie has usually been much greater in London than in Washington. 
Since the Second World War, the State Department has pointedly refused to employ the term "special relationship," and has urged Britain to integrate itself more closely with continental Europe instead of hankering after privileged and outdated trans-Atlantic treatment. But from Churchill to Blair, successive prime ministers have sought just such treatment, and have repeatedly insisted that Britain possesses disproportionate influence in American foreign policy-making -- and thus in world affairs -- as a result. 
How, from this perspective, do matters now stand with Mr. Blair and Mr. Bush, and thus between the governments (but not necessarily between the people) of the United Kingdom and the United States? In terms of their rhetoric, it is all very familiar. According to the president, "America has always found strong partners in London, leaders of good judgment and blunt counsel." For, he says, "the British people are the sort of partners you want when serious work needs doing." According to the prime minister, "we should remain the closest ally of the U.S., and as allies influence them to continue broadening their agenda."
"The price of influence," Mr. Blair has also observed, "is that we do not leave the U.S. to face the tricky issues alone." Here, once again, is the classically asymmetrical expression of the "special relationship": America wants friends; Britain wants influence. Only by standing by him in public could Mr. Blair hope to influence Mr. Bush in private -- for the benefit of America (which should therefore behave more prudently), for the benefit of Britain (which will thereby exercise disproportionate influence), and for the benefit of the world (which will be a better place because of the vitality of the "special relationship"). 
Was this ever true after 1945? Is it true now? In general, British prime ministers have claimed greater influence in Washington than has usually been the case: the relationship has been more special to them than to America -- a way for Britain to inflate its dwindling global influence by trying to play Greece to America's Rome. But this historical analogy has usually turned out to be misleading. Most of the time, America's Rome has managed perfectly well without significant input from Britain's Greece.
Only occasionally have American presidents sought British support, not because of its military significance, nor out of any special fondness for the "special relationship," but rather as a cover for what might otherwise appear unacceptably unilateralist American action. That was why Lyndon Johnson requested British troops for Vietnam, and why both Bushes wanted British troops in Iraq. Harold Wilson said no, and he was right. Tony Blair said yes, and many Britons do not like it. That is a very special form of the "special relationship." Perhaps, indeed, it is now on the way to becoming a recessional relationship. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POETRY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WORLD WAR I (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BULL AS (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (66%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (96%); JAPAN (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); IRAQ (79%); GERMANY (52%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003 



510 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-9

Plans for 100,000 G.I.'s In Iraq Until March 2006
Army planning currently assumes keeping about 100,000 United States troops in Iraq through March 2006, a senior Army officer said. There are 130,000 there now. The plans reflect concerns that stabilization could be more difficult than originally thought. However, President Bush and a new provisional Iraqi government will ultimately decide the size of any force. A1

Facing an American crackdown of high-technology warfare, Iraqi insurgents resorted to using donkey carts disguised as haywagons to haul rocket launchers close to several of the most heavily defended sites in Baghdad. Only one man was seriously injured. A6

Ridding Iraq of the Baath Party, the backbone of Saddam Hussein's dictatorship, has proved more difficult than many imagined. Even the most adamant advocates of a purge now say that time, economics and pragmatic considerations have moderated their ambitions. A8

Arrests Made in Turkey Blasts
Turkish authorities arrested several people in connection with two huge truck-bomb explosions that killed 30 people in Istanbul on Thursday. Three separate groups have declared responsibility. A8

President Bush said Turkey has become a new front in the campaign against terrorism and that Britain and the United States would work together to help the government there head off further attacks. A3

Intelligence officials regard the recent surge in terrorist strikes on "soft targets" like consulates, banks and synagogues as a reflection of the success that the United States and its European allies have had in disrupting Al Qaeda. A6

Preparing for Attacks in Asia
American officials in Southeast Asia are bracing for new terrorist attacks as they gather fresh information about a radical Islamic organization in Indonesia. The organization is growing in strength and numbers. A9

NATIONAL A10-13, 16

Opponents Stall Energy Bill In Senate Setback for Bush
Senate opponents of the energy bill blocked a final vote on the measure, at least temporarily derailing one of the primary policy initiatives of the Bush presidency. A1

Giggling Over Sniper Killings
Jurors in Virginia heard an audiotaped confession in which Lee Malvo described the sniper shootings that left 10 people dead in the Washington area last fall with tittering, chuckling and giggling. A10

No Formal Jackson Charges Yet
The Santa Barbara County prosecutor's office said that it would not file formal charges against Michael Jackson until after Thanksgiving. A10

Prescription Drugs Pass Hurdle
The Senate Democratic leader said he would not support a filibuster against a bill offering prescription drug benefits to the elderly. A12

Immigrant Registration Halted
The Department of Homeland Security has decided to discontinue a controversial program that required thousands of Arab and Muslim men to register with immigration authorities in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks, officials said. A16

SPORTS D1-8

OBITUARIES B7

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Glowing Fish Soon to Hit Market
GloFish, a Texas company, said that it would soon start selling a genetically engineered aquarium fish that glows in the dark. A12

Hepatitis Linked to Scallions
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said that contaminated scallions served in salsa at a Pennsylvania restaurant almost certainly caused an outbreak of hepatitis A. A13

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Lawmakers Urge Extension Of Deadline for 9/11 Fund
Members of New York's Congressional delegation say the federal government's effort to compensate the relatives of Sept. 11 victims will fall short of its intent if Congress does not act soon to extend the Dec. 22 deadline for filing claims. About 60 percent of those eligible have filed. A1

Mayor to Challenge Subpoena
Mayor Bloomberg pledged to challenge a federal subpoena requiring New York City to turn over records of 911 calls from Sept. 11, 2001, saying that the request was "ghoulish" and complying would invade the privacy of the victims' families. B2

Cash Back for Silverstein
Larry A. Silverstein and his investors are getting back most of the cash they put up for their bid more than two years ago to take control of the World Trade Center, under an agreement with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. B1

Man Is Crushed to Death
A homeless man was lifted up and crushed to death in the bucket of a garbage collectors' lifting machine as he huddled from the cold under a Brooklyn highway overpass. B1

The city is putting together a plan to end chronic homelessness in the next 10 years, Mayor Bloomberg said. B3

3 Found Dead in Bronx House
Three people were found dead at a three-story house in the Morris Heights section of the Bronx, possibly from carbon monoxide poisoning, the fire department said. B1

Beliefs B6

Neediest Cases B5

ARTS & IDEAS B9-19

Memorial Design Opinions
The eight finalist designs for the World Trade Center memorial, released on Wednesday, prompted professional responses and emotional reactions among American architects reached for comment. B9

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Anti-Spam Law Nears Passage
House and Senate leaders reached agreement on legislation to stanch the torrent of junk e-mail, making it likely that Congress will pass a law by early next week. A1

Freddie Mac Corrects Results
Freddie Mac, the buyer of home mortgages, said it had understated its earnings by nearly $5 billion over three years, ending an 11-month accounting review that led to resignations by prominent executives. C1

Rough Week for Stocks
The Dow rose 9.11 points, to 9,628.53, 140.15 points below last week's close. The Nasdaq climbed 11.96 points, to 1,893.88, 36.38 points below last week's close. C4

Shares of Merck dropped $2.95, or 6.5 percent, after the drug maker announced that it had stopped testing MK-767, a potentially big-selling diabetes drug, because it caused malignant tumors in mice. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Harvesting poverty: free trade, a la carte; remembering John F. Kennedy; save the conservation security program; the childhood of Michael Jackson.

Columns: David Brooks, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Bridge B18
TV Listings B19
Crossword B18
Weather B20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); ARMIES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); FILIBUSTER (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); IMMIGRATION (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICS (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); AL-QAEDA (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); ARRESTS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); THANKSGIVING (67%); IMMIGRATION LAW (67%); LEGISLATION (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); RELIGION (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (60%); JURY TRIALS (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); TURKEY (93%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003 



511 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
Mother Watches Proudly as Young Girl Surmounts Disability

BYLINE:  By ARTHUR BOVINO

 BODY:
Lyn Kest vividly remembers the best day of her life.
 It was an evening in October 1999, in Changsha, China, when for the first time she held the 10-month-old baby girl she was adopting. 
 "It was very emotional," she said, watching her daughter, Leah, tracing drawings of oranges and bananas on the floor of an apartment on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. "I was very nervous. I was hoping she would be healthy. I wanted to hold her. I wanted to smell and kiss her. I started crying." 
At that, her daughter chimed in: "And my mommy taped me," said Leah, who will be 5 next month. "When I was a baby."
Ms. Kest grinned. "Right," she said. "So you can see it when you get older."
Ms. Kest organized the adoption through a New York agency, Spence-Chapin. Beginning in 1997, she spent a year and a half attending parenthood workshops and learning about cross-cultural issues in preparation for the adoption.
"I'm adopted, so it's something I had always planned to do," Ms. Kest said. "I had gotten divorced and I still wanted to pursue adoption. I grew up here on the Lower East Side near Chinatown. It was just a culture I was very comfortable with, so I just decided to go it by myself."
So when she met Leah, Ms. Kest was overjoyed. As for Leah's legs, which seemed a little weak, Ms. Kest said she was not too concerned. After all, babies being adopted by the other families on the trip to Changsha, a city in the Hunan Province, also seemed weak.
Later, when she came back to the United States, Ms. Kest took Leah to all the requisite medical appointments. But while the doctors did diagnose a weakness, the source remained a mystery, even to a neurologist. In fact, it was not until January 2000, when Leah was taken to the Rusk Institute, that Ms. Kest would understand why that mystery seemed to defy all medical expertise. There, doctors finally determined that Leah had polio, a neuromuscular disease largely eradicated in the United States.
"Nobody really, really focused on what the problem was because polio hasn't been seen in so long stateside that it just doesn't come up as a commonly seen diagnosis," Ms. Kest said.
At Rusk, Ms. Kest and Leah met Dr. Joan Gold, a polio survivor who recognized Leah's symptoms. "She hooked me up with all of her physicians," Ms. Kest said. "I asked her to become Leah's private physician at Rusk."
The diagnosis enabled them to tackle the problem head-on. Leah began an early-intervention program and began attending therapy four times a week. 
The therapy increased Leah's upper body strength, giving her the balance that she now uses to carry a backpack or a lunch tray in school. She started out wearing braces from her neck to her legs. Now they support only her legs.
But the therapy and preventive measures were expensive. Ms. Kest had a good job as an office manager at a Wall Street company, but she had not anticipated the extra costs. 
"I can't even tell you how much orthotics costs," Ms. Kest said. "Every time you turn around there's a growth spurt."
Ms. Kest also needed a home nurse, while she was at work, to watch Leah.
In a way, a sluggish economy both helped Ms. Kest's situation and hurt it. In May 2002, amid the economic slump, she was offered a severance package. She was able to spend more time with her daughter and on her therapy, but now the money has almost run out. She receives $575 a month in Social Security to help with costs of orthotics and other needs of Leah's.
Ms. Kest knew she would eventually need to return to work. And when she began devoting herself to finding work a few months later, a tight job market proved difficult to penetrate.
As this past summer approached, with Leah's prekindergarten classes ending, Ms. Kest also needed to find something for Leah to do. 
She remembered spending time in her own youth at the Educational Alliance, a beneficiary of the UJA-Federation of New York, one of seven charities that participate in The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. 
Liege Motta, the director of the program, secured $1,850 of Neediest Cases money to allow Leah to attend the Co-Op Nursery School there. In a comforting twist of fate, Leah played on the alliance's playgrounds in the same spot where Ms. Kest's adoptive parents first met at a dance not long after World War II.
Recently, Ms. Kest has taken a test to get a teaching certificate. Her experience with her daughter's problems have piqued her interest in teaching and helping other children. As she looks for work, she takes inspiration from her daughter's perseverance and growing strength.
And she looks on with pride as her daughter focuses intently on her drawings of those oranges and bananas. Apart from the occasional click of a leg brace against the hardwood floor, she seems like any other child absorbed in a creative act.
"She's bright, she's articulate," Ms. Kest said. "She's going to be whatever she wants to be."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $2,531,128.86
Recorded Thursday: 32,416.81
Total: $2,563,545.67

Last year to date: $2,784,978.20

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lyn Kest adopted Leah, who will be 5 next month, in China at age 10 months. A few months later, doctors told Ms. Kest that Leah had polio. The support that Leah has received has helped her thrive. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); NEUROSCIENCE (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (86%); FAMILY (78%); ADOPTION (77%); PARENTING (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (62%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (62%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund; Poliomyelitis; Adoptions

ORGANIZATION: Uja-Federation of New York

PERSON: Arthur Bovino

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); HUNAN, CHINA (90%); CENTRAL CHINA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (91%) China

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003 



512 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Pension Funds Plan to Press Global Warming as an Issue 

BYLINE:  By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
Officials controlling some of the nation's largest pension funds announced plans yesterday to press regulators, public companies and Wall Street to pay more heed to the potential financial upheaval from climate change. They said that their effort would be coordinated through a new group, the Investor Network on Climate Risk.
 "In global warming, we are facing an enormous risk to the U.S. economy and to retirement funds that Wall Street has so far chosen to ignore," said Philip Angelides, the treasurer of California. 
 In addition to Mr. Angelides, the founders of the network include the New York State comptroller, Alan Hevesi; the New York City comptroller, William Thompson; and Denise Nappier, the treasurer of Connecticut. They were joined by counterparts from New Mexico, Oregon, Maine and Vermont as well as officials overseeing two major union pension funds.
 Their plans, which they termed a "call to action," were announced in conjunction with a meeting at the United Nations that brought together fund managers representing more than $1 trillion in assets and representatives from numerous Wall Street banks and investment advisers. 
 The meeting was the most elaborate effort yet by a growing group of fund managers, shareholder advocates and environmentalists to persuade businesses to move more aggressively to identify and address problems they might face from global warming, increasingly frequent extreme weather and other climate changes that have been linked to the rapid buildup in the atmosphere of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases.
 The meeting was addressed by both Kofi Annan, the secretary general of the United Nations, and the former vice president, Al Gore, who said, "This is not business as usual -- the relationship between the human species and the planet on which we live has been utterly transformed."
 Investment managers who attended the meeting said they had no trouble agreeing that the challenge was a daunting one. But many fund managers were uncertain how the climate change projections reviewed at the start of the meeting could translate into investment strategy. One recounted his experience setting up a fund at the request of two clients in 1990 to invest in companies that were developing environmentally beneficial products or doing business in a more environmentally sound way than their peers. The clients asked him to shut the fund down just more than two years later when it failed to do as well as the rest of the stock market.
 Abby Joseph Cohen, managing director at Goldman Sachs, noted the public was not yet rewarding sensitivity to climate issues in the marketplace or at the polls. "Someone's obviously buying and driving those S.U.V.'s, and they are voting," she said.
 But others like Mr. Angelides argued that responsible pension fund managers had a legal responsibility to take a longer view. He said managers had to prod businesses to study the issue more and report more, invest in companies positioned to profit from climate change, put some of their money into funds that screen businesses for socially responsible behavior, and, if they own real estate, look to reduce the environmental impact of their buildings.
 The Investor Network founders said that one of their first moves would be to press the Securities and Exchange Commission to require more disclosure in corporate filings of climate risks and to give investors more leeway in forcing companies to allow shareholder resolutions on the subject at annual meetings.
 None of the activists said that they planned to divest themselves of the stocks of companies they viewed as lagging on climate concerns. Mr. Hevesi called divestment the last resort. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); GLOBAL WARMING (91%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); WEATHER (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%) Weather; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Global Warming; Lobbying and Lobbyists

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%) Investor Network On Climate Risk

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: AL GORE (57%) Barnaby J Feder

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003 



513 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
Technology Shares Show Strength; Blue Chips Stay Even

BYLINE:  By Reuters

 BODY:
Technology stocks rose yesterday as investors stepped cautiously back into the market after declines earlier in the week. But Merck kept blue chips close to unchanged after its second announcement in 10 days that it was scrapping an experimental medicine.
 "We've seen a classic rotation out of health care," said Owen Fitzpatrick, head of the United States equity group at Deutsche Bank Private Wealth Management. Investors are returning to the technology sector, which they regard as having the best outlook for growth, he said. 
 The technology-focused Nasdaq composite index closedup 11.96 points, or 0.64 percent, at 1,893.88, while the broad Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 1.63 points, or 0.16 percent, to 1,035.28. The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average rose 9.11 points, or 0.09 percent, to 9,628.53.
 For the second consecutive week, however, the major stock indexes ended lower. The Dow and S.&P. 500 fell 1.4 percent, while the Nasdaq fell 1.9 percent.
 Longer term, each of the main gauges has risen significantly since mid-March as investors anticipated a full recovery for the economy and improved corporate profits.
 The Dow was kept afloat yesterday by AT&T, which rose 90 cents, or 4.7 percent, to $20 in a late afternoon rally. Lehman Brothers said in a research report that it expected AT&T to increase its dividend by 20 percent to 30 percent in January and that the company might also repurchase 10 percent to 15 percent of its shares. AT&T declined to comment.
 Merck was the Dow's biggest loser, sinking $2.95, or 6.5 percent, to $42.21. The company discontinued its second experimental medicine in 10 days -- this time a diabetes drug that was found to cause cancer in mice.
 The S.&P. pharmaceutical index was one of the market's biggest decliners, dropping 1.8 percent.
 Trading was light on the New York Stock Exchange, with 1.26 billion shares changing hands, which was below the daily average of about 1.37 billion for the last month. Nearly 1.6 billion shares were traded on Nasdaq, above the daily average of 1.47 billion shares for the last month.
 Advancers beat decliners 3 to 2 on the Big Board and about 6 to 5 on Nasdaq.
 Other stocks showing big moves included Dillard Department Stores, which rallied $1.07, or 7.4 percent, to $15.57. The company reported a wider quarterly loss as warm fall weather hindered clothing sales, but the loss was not nearly as steep as Wall Street had feared.
 The retailer Nordstrom climbed $3.10, or 9.7 percent, to $34.92. The company posted better-than-expected earnings, and at least one securities firm raised its rating on the stock.
 Freddie Mac, the mortgage finance company, rose slightly after it addressed some issues in the long-running scandal over its accounting. The company admitted overstating earnings by almost $1 billion in 2001 and understating profit by more than $6 billion in 2002, 2000 and earlier periods to show the steady growth favored on Wall Street.
 Its shares closed up 3 cents, to $55.67, as two of the big three rating agencies' affirmed their ratings on Freddie Mac debt. 
 Treasury prices fell slightly in the absence of significant economic data releases, but safe-haven buying in response to terrorism and global tensions prevented bonds from shedding all the gains accumulated in a weeklong rally. There were speeches yesterday by Federal Reserve officials, but they offered little new information that could push the market in one direction or the other.
 By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note fell 1/32, to 100 24/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.16 percent from 4.15 percent. The 30-year bond lost 2/32, to 105 13/32. Its yield was unchanged at 5.01 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); RODENTS (64%); CANCER (64%); RETAILERS (63%); INTEREST RATES (60%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (56%); DIABETES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (60%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); DILLARD'S INC (51%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%); DL7A (FRA) (51%); DDS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (60%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (60%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (60%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (51%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003 



514 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: Venezuelan Economy Declines Again 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Venezuela's economy shrank 7.1 percent in the period from July to September, its seventh consecutive quarterly contraction, as its state-run oil company struggled to increase output after a nationwide strike.
 The decline extends a slump that has reduced the country's gross domestic product per capita more than the Depression did in the United States in the 1930's, according to Gerver Torres, a former adviser to the Inter-American Development Bank and World Bank. 
 The third-quarter contraction follows declines of 9.4 percent in the second quarter and 28 percent in the first quarter, when the two-month strike ended. Output shrank 15 percent in the first nine months of the year, the central bank said.
 Luis Oganes, an analyst with J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. in New York, said the Venezuelan economy had bottomed out, and a surge in oil prices to above $31 a barrel would help the government increase spending. He predicts 7.5 percent growth in 2004.
 "The worst is over, but a lot of next year's growth will just be a statistical rebound from a very weak base of comparison," Mr. Oganes said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); STRIKES (77%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); TRENDS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%) Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (83%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%) SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (93%) Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003 



515 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Energy Bill Would Welcome Back Diesels 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
Twenty-five years after diesel cars largely disappeared from American highways in a black cloud of tailpipe exhaust, the energy bill whose fate is hanging in the Senate invites a much cleaner incarnation back. These so-called advanced diesels would be eligible for tax credits equal to those in the bill for alternative-fuel vehicles and gas-electric hybrids.
 Environmental groups say that the new generation of diesels will still be too dirty to merit tax breaks but they view credits for cleaner technologies like hybrids and hydrogen fuel cells as one of the few things to like about the bill. Over all, they say, the energy bill will increase the nation's automotive oil consumption. 
 Automakers see the provision, as well as the energy bill at large, as a victory. Several automakers -- particularly those based in Europe, where millions of diesels are sold each year -- view diesels as the most viable way to cut Americans' swelling oil consumption.
 "We definitely support it and are very pleased, from the language we've seen," said Kathleen Graham, a spokeswoman for DaimlerChrysler. "We think we should encourage all advanced technologies with tax credits and not just one because right now there's not a clear winner," she added.
 But Dan Becker, an energy expert at the Sierra Club, said many of the vehicles that would receive diesel credits would not even meet the minimum standards in California, which sets more stringent air quality standards than the federal government.
 "We don't need diesels," he said. "For them to share a tax credit meant to benefit clean cars like hybrids is appalling."
 The Joint Committee on Taxation forecasts that tax credits for advanced technology and alternative-fuel vehicles will cost more than $2.2 billion from 2004 to 2013. The committee did not break down the cost of credits for diesels versus hybrids and other technologies.
 After the oil shocks of the 1970's, diesels had a period of modest popularity in the United States. But as gas prices receded, consumers grew tired of the smoke and smells associated with the engines, as well as quality problems with some diesel offerings from General Motors.
 In recent years, automakers have been exploring technologies to clean up diesels, to try to meet tightening emissions and fuel economy regulations in Europe and with an eye to reintroducing diesel engine cars in the United States. 
 China, the world's fastest-growing market for automobile sales, is also poised to impose fuel economy standards more stringent than those in the United States.
 Even some regulators said they thought diesels might be useful in meeting the goals of using less oil while also reducing pollution. "I think it's part of the solution," Alan Lloyd, chairman of the California Air Resources Board, said in a recent interview. "The more I see these things, I don't know that there's any magic bullet." 
 Environmentalists are not convinced that diesel can ever be as clean as gasoline. 
 Current diesel technology presents trade-offs. Diesels still emit considerably more smog-forming pollutants like nitrogen oxides, volatile organic chemicals and soot than comparable gasoline cars do. But diesels also improve fuel economy by 30 to 40 percent and reduce oil consumption by about 15 percent, reducing emissions that many scientists link to global warming.
 For instance, the 2003 Volkswagen Jetta with a four-cylinder gasoline engine and an automatic transmission emits 7.9 to 11.8 pounds of smog-forming pollutants every 15,000 miles, according to data from the Environmental Protection Agency. But a comparable car with a diesel engine emits at least 43.7 pounds of pollutants.
 On the other hand, the gasoline Jetta gets average combined city and highway mileage of 26 miles a gallon and emits 7.4 tons of greenhouse gases a year, compared with 5.5 tons and 38 m.p.g. for the diesel.
 The types of advanced diesel vehicles that would be eligible for credits under the energy bill would have new filtration technologies that greatly narrow the pollutant gap with gasoline cars. 
 "Obviously, it could help kick-start the return of diesels to the U.S.," said Allen Schaeffer, executive director of the Diesel Technology Forum, referring to the energy bill. His group is financed by automakers, diesel engine makers and oil companies. "Gas cars don't offer the 20 to 40 percent fuel economy gains that you get with the diesel."
 Environmental groups argue that gasoline cars could be more cheaply modified to improve both fuel efficiency and emissions with technologies already available. And they see tax incentives for diesel potentially distracting attention from technologies like hybrids.
 "You can do it cleaner and more cheaply with gasoline, so why give diesels some inherent advantage?" said David Friedman, an energy expert at the Union of Concerned Scientists.
 Hybrid development can also help in the development of fuel cells -- which are more complex but potentially the cleanest technology of all -- because both use electric motors.
 Representative Dave Camp, the Michigan Republican instrumental in getting the diesel credits inserted into the energy bill, said that such vehicles would reduce dependence on imported oil. "We're more dependent on foreign oil than in the energy crisis of the 70's," he said, adding, "I don't consider this a solution, but it's available right now, while technologies like the fuel cell have tremendous potential but are further out."
 Hybrids and diesels clean enough to meet new regulations are thousands of dollars more expensive than conventional cars. Two sets of tax credits in the energy bill are aimed at helping consumers offset the higher prices.
 One credit, ranging from $400 to $2,400, would rise depending on how much more fuel efficient a vehicle was than the average vehicle in its class. A second credit, ranging from $250 to $1,000, would rise depending on the projected fuel savings over the vehicle's life. Fuel cell vehicles, much more costly, receive higher credits.
 Automakers say it will be expensive to make vehicles meet air standards that are scheduled to take effect later in the decade. European automakers are the most determined to try. While many companies sell diesel versions of big trucks and sport utilities, Volkswagen sells diesel versions of several of its cars. Next year, DaimlerChrysler plans to offer a diesel version of the Jeep Liberty and a Mercedes sedan.
 These vehicles do not yet meet the tougher thresholds. Part of the problem is that the nation's diesel fuel has too much sulfur. New E.P.A. rules will lower those levels by the end of 2006.
 Automakers argue that the new emissions requirements will force them to close the gap further on smog-forming pollutants; environmentalists worry that the new regulations will still allow diesels to emit a greater amount of particulate matter, tiny soot particles linked to a variety of health problems.
 "This invites diesels back at the behest of the auto industry," said Mr. Friedman of the Union of Concerned Scientists.
 Over all, Mr. Friedman projects that the energy bill will increase automotive oil consumption three billion to four billion gallons through 2008 because it extends fuel economy credits that automakers receive for making vehicles that run on ethanol as well as gasoline, despite the fact that hardly any consumers actually use ethanol.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: "Diesel Redux?"The government wants to subsidize buyers of cars with advanced diesel engines because the motors give better mileage and emit less pollution linked to global warming. But environmentalists note that diesels emit far more pollution that creates smog. Current diesels, including Volkswagen cars sold in the United States, are not yet clean enough to qualify for the credits. VW JETTADieselFUEL EFFICIENCY34 M.P.G. CITY45 M.P.G. HIGHWAY38 M.P.G. COMBINED POLLUTION*5.5 TONS OF GREENHOUSE GASES43.7 TO 58.8 POUNDS OF SMOG-FORMING POLLUTION DODGE NEONGasolineFUEL EFFICIENCY25 M.P.G. CITY32 M.P.G. HIGHWAY28 M.P.G. COMBINED POLLUTION*6.8 TONS OF GREENHOUSE GASES12.3 TO 12.9 POUNDS OF SMOG-FORMING POLLUTION CHEVROLET CAVALIERGasolineFUEL EFFICIENCY24 M.P.G. CITY33 M.P.G. HIGHWAY28 M.P.G. COMBINED POLLUTION*6.9 TONS OF GREENHOUSE GASES 12.3 TO 12.9POUNDS OF SMOG-FORMING POLLUTION *Annual emissions assuming 15,000 miles driven (Source by Environmental Protection Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); AIR QUALITY (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (89%); CONSUMPTION (88%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (73%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%) Air Pollution; Diesel Power; Automobiles; Tax Credits; Law and Legislation; Electric Vehicles; Air Pollution

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCES BOARD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (82%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%) Sierra Club

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim; Dan Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (79%) California; United States

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003 



516 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: Pushing Energy Conservation Into the Back Seat of the S.U.V. 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla. 

 BODY:
Lynette Woide stayed home one recent afternoon so that someone from Progress Energy, the local utility, could check the house she has lived in for 20 years to make sure it was as energy efficient as possible.
 "It's important to me to be a good steward with what we've been given," said Ms. Woide, who recently replaced the windows in her living room to conserve air-conditioning. "I think Americans are kind of wasteful. There isn't an unending supply of what we have."
 But in her small garage sits a Chevrolet Blazer, a sport utility vehicle that Ms. Woide estimates gets 17 miles a gallon. It is a company car that she chose because it helps her haul things for work, she said. Then again, she recalled, "I could haul a lot of stuff in my Taurus, too." A Taurus gets about 30 percent better gas mileage, on average, the Environmental Protection Agency says. 
 Thirty years after the Arab oil embargo highlighted how this country's appetite for energy could increase its political and economic vulnerability, the spread of affluence has pushed those concerns aside. 
 Many Americans would like to import less oil from the Middle East. Most would like better air and water quality. But that has not stopped them from buying bigger homes and cars, as they have through the last decade, despite the political and environmental costs.
 As a result, the United States is importing an ever increasing share of its oil needs, 55 percent in the first seven months of this year. That compares with about 28 percent 20 years ago, at the height of the consumer switch to vehicles that are more fuel efficient, and with nearly 35 percent in 1973, before the first Arab oil embargo.
 Doug MacIntyre, senior oil market analyst for the Energy Information Administration, forecasts that imports will rise to 68 percent of consumption by 2025.
 Most of it will come from the Persian Gulf region, given that two-thirds of the world's known oil resources are concentrated there. Currently, 13 percent of this country's daily oil imports come from the Persian Gulf, compared with less than 5 percent 30 years ago.
 In the 1,100-page energy bill now before Congress, Republican leaders have proposed energy-saving standards for buildings and appliances, but have done little to encourage -- much less to mandate -- conservation in automobiles and industry, critics say. 
 The bill does include tax credits for people who buy high-mileage hybrid vehicles, but at the same time Republican leaders in the House removed a Senate proposal to close a loophole that gives small-business owners a tax deduction of as much as $100,000 when they buy luxury sport utility vehicles. 
 "The bill ignores key big-ticket savings in vehicle fuel economy and electricity efficiency," said Steven M. Nadel, executive director of the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy, a nonprofit research group. "The efficiency provisions of the current energy bill are only a Band-Aid."
 Thanks to its many tourist destinations and its relatively low cost of living, Orlando has thrived despite the national economic slump, making it something of a bellwether for the rest of the United States once another period of widespread prosperity inevitably comes. Here, the gains made during the energy-related upheavals of the 1970's and 80's are clear, but their erosion since then is starkly evident, too.
 Federal and local regulations have required energy-conservation measures to be built into the new houses that have sprouted here like mushrooms after a rain. But houses here, as elsewhere in the country, are considerably bigger than they were then and have many more appliances and electronics in them.
 So, while American households consume 20 percent less energy on average than they did 30 years ago, the trend in recent years has been toward more energy use. American homes in 1999, the most recent year with figures available, used about 10 percent more energy than they did in 1990, according to the World Resources Institute, an environmental research and policy organization in Washington. And that does not count the energy consumed by the S.U.V.'s and pickup trucks that more and more people use as family cars.
 For Thomas Lagomarsino, executive director of the Home Builders Association of Metro Orlando, the wealth that has nourished this region has made everything bigger, but not necessarily better. "The public doesn't really focus on energy," Mr. Lagomarsino said. "They focus on what they want, unfortunately. I think people should focus on energy issues, water issues. But they just want to come home and have it be nice."
 Nice and efficient are not mutually exclusive. A refrigerator manufactured now, for instance, consumes less than one-third the electricity of one made three decades ago, after the government's adoption of energy-efficiency targets for appliances.
 Nor are affluence and efficiency a zero-sum game. In 2002, Americans used 43 percent less energy for each dollar of gross domestic product than they did 30 years ago, according to inflation-adjusted data from the Energy Information Administration, an arm of the Energy Department. Part of that is because energy-intensive heavy industry has made way for service jobs, which use less energy for each dollar of value they create. But there was also a shift to smaller, more fuel-efficient cars and other conservation measures after oil prices spiked in the 1970's.
 But many of the energy savings of the last 30 years have been offset over the last decade, especially when it comes to oil consumption. The United States, which has 5 percent of the world's population, burns 10 percent of the world's crude oil output every day just to power its cars and trucks, and 25 percent over all. 
 Energy experts said they expected the proportion used for transportation to increase, given that S.U.V.'s and light trucks, which are exempt from federal fuel-economy standards, are a growing percentage of the personal vehicles in use.
 Many people here, and around the country, say they have a sense that too much energy is perhaps being consumed too quickly, and some are addressing it. Building codes in Florida, for example, have some of the toughest energy efficiency standards in the country. And local utilities like Progress Energy, which serves many Orlando suburbs, work with builders and homeowners to make houses and buildings more efficient.
 Celebration, a town that the Walt Disney Company built 30 miles southwest of Orlando as a high-tech grasp at a more modest time, was designed in part to save energy. The town was laid out to encourage people to walk or bike, and the homes were built to conserve energy.
 Susan Brassfield, 49, the director of Celebration Middle School and a resident of the town, bought an electric car when she moved here from Atlanta three years ago, and she said she used it far more than her Mercedes sedan. And she is not alone. But many of the electric vehicles there share the road with S.U.V.'s and even larger S.U.V.'s.
 Mark Rutecki, a 37-year-old lawyer, moved to Celebration from Miami six years ago. On his license plate is an endangered Florida panther; the license plate is on a Hummer. He said he bought the vehicle, which weighs 6,000 pounds, because he thought it would protect his wife and two small children. But, he added, "recently I've started wondering what people think" about his owning such a vehicle, which gets about 12 miles to the gallon.
 "It's not as bad as everyone thinks," he said. "The way I think about it, we're close today to switching to a hydrogen economy, so it won't matter what mileage we get on cars now. I think that will happen soon."
 In fact, the commercial use of hydrogen fuel cells to run cars is at least a decade away, experts say. And even then, natural gas will be a significant source of hydrogen -- and the United States is already gearing up to import large amounts of natural gas, much of it from the same countries that supply crude oil today.
 Much of the momentum toward energy conservation was lost when oil prices tumbled in the mid-1980's to about $20 a barrel and stayed there through the 90's. Since then, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries has adjusted production to keep prices near $25 a barrel or more. Adjusted for inflation and compared with greater affluence, oil is relatively cheap, the Energy Information Administration said. That is overriding concerns about national security and personal spending.
 "If you're looking at an S.U.V., you're not that concerned about fuel costs," said Arsene Orelien, the director of Internet sales at Greenway Ford, among the area's largest car dealerships, its acres gleaming with the latest S.U.V.'s and trucks.
 "A lot more families want to be part of the hip crowd," he added. "It used to be that families had a sedan and a station wagon. Then a sedan and an S.U.V. Now, it's an S.U.V. and a truck. 
 "It's an indication that we don't want to be like our parents. But we're in denial because we end up like our parents anyway."

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Pooler recently checked the energy efficiency of Lynette Woide's house in Orlando, Fla. "I think Americans are kind of wasteful," Ms. Woide said. "There isn't an unending supply of what we have." (Photo by Gary Bogdon for The New York Times)(pg. C2) Chart: "Even More Dependent"United States oil imports are at their highest levels ever. Graph tracks net oil imports as a percentage of consumption in the U.S. from the 1970's through 2003. (Source by Energy Information Administration)(pg. C1) Chart: "Two Views of Energy Use"Americans' energy consumption as a percentage of economic output has dropped in the years since the 1973 Arab oil embargo, but people are using almost as much energy as they did in the 1970's. Graphs track energy used to produce one dollar of gross domestic product*, and annual energy consumption per person from the 1970's through 2003. *Adusted for inflation (Source by Energy Information Administration)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); HYBRID VEHICLES (74%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); TAX LAW (64%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Automobiles ; Housing ; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%) Energy Information Administration

PERSON: Neela Banerjee

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%) INDIAN OCEAN (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); GULF STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%) Middle East; Persian Gulf

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003 



517 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Clothing Retailers Hope Shoppers Take Holiday Prices at Face Value 

BYLINE:  By TRACIE ROZHON

 BODY:
This holiday shopping season, America's clothing stores are offering their customers something they have not seen in years: full price.
 Forget signs announcing discounts of 80 percent. Forget coupons and markdown bins. At mall stores and specialty retailers like PacSun, Abercrombie & Fitch and the Gap, there are fewer markdowns at this time of year than in any holiday season since 1998, according to John D. Morris, a retail analyst at Harris Nesbitt Gerard in New York, who has been compiling a record of markdowns for the last 7 years. 
 At the Limited, a division of Limited Brands, a spokeswoman said that there would be no more coupons or promotions heading into Christmas. J. Crew has eliminated its friends and family discounts, which in past years offered 25 percent off to select customers at the beginning of the holiday season. "That's skimming 25 percent off the cream of the crop -- our freshest merchandise," said Michael Dadario, an executive vice president at J. Crew. "Pacific Sunwear has actually raised some of our prices -- across the board -- and we're not having a lot of sales," said Greg H. Weaver, chief executive of Pacific Sunwear. 
 Last year at this time, the stores were awash with sales signs and bargain racks, said Marshal Cohen, senior analyst for NPD, a market research firm. "They're really trying to hold it down," Mr. Cohen said. "Their intentions are good."
 Obviously, a lot of the full-price talk may turn out to be wishful thinking. "Right now the stores are packed," Mr. Dadario said. "But we'll be better able to judge the weekend after Thanksgiving. A lot of people are waiting. If sales aren't great and everyone panics, you'll see the markdowns." And the current emphasis on regular prices does not seem to include other retailers. Toy stores are already in the midst of price wars; electronics stores, on average, seem to be promoting at about the same level as last year.
 Analysts say that for many retailers, trying to beat the big-box deep-discount retailers at their own game has clearly not worked; customers just wanted more and more bargains. The department store chains responded by offering too many sales, and, analysts say, were eventually stuck with a lot of unwanted merchandise.
 In a conference call on Nov. 20, Byron Pollitt, the chief financial officer at Gap Inc., said that the company had fewer planned sales promotions in the quarter ended Oct. 31, and that it had profit margins were two percentage points higher, in part because of the fewer promotions.
 "We're being less promotional and more strategic," said Gary Gerdemann, a spokesman for Gap. "Regular-price selling is a focus for us."
 Although Mr. Gerdemann declined to address the holiday pricing strategy, Mr. Morris's sale rack index shows the Gap is down 10 percent from last year's level, which means that 10 percent fewer items are discounted.
 This season, the stores feel they can hold out longer without markdowns because they are going into the holidays leaner than in previous years. Inventories are down 7 to 8 percent, according to Mr. Cohen.
 Selling more goods at full price "is our goal," said Terry J. Lundgren, chief executive of the Federated Department Stores, which owns Bloomingdale's, Macy's and other stores. "This year, we're reacting to what's selling, and we've instituted technology to speed up the time to reorder." 
 With Federated's inventory the lowest in years, Mr. Lundgren said he hoped to sell the hot items -- particularly jewelry and accessories -- at full price and replenish them quickly so that their replacements, too, will sell at full price.
 But in interviews, the merchants point out that they are offering customers new styles and great service -- something shoppers have missed for years --in place of discounted prices.
 For the holiday season, the retailers are loading color -- bubble-gum pink, melon, asparagus, claret, orange and lots of red -- onto the shelves, in a race to differentiate themselves. They are hoping to sell their polychromatic assortments at regular prices.
 Retailers are also pledging that going into the holidays, clerks will spend less time chatting on the telephones and more time back at the counters. At Federated, executives said the new service includes manning the dressing rooms with those old-fashioned sales clerks that you could ask to find a different size in the racks. 
 Stephen I. Sadove, the vice chairman of Saks Inc., said in an interview that he proposed favored-customer cards, like those in the Las Vegas casinos, for shoppers who spend over a certain amount -- maybe $10,000 a year. They could insert the cards when they enter the store and be greeted by a personal shopper or special offers.
 Saks Fifth Avenue, a division of Saks Inc., has created the post of vice president in charge of customer relationship management and has stocked all 62 of its stores with service booths and "living rooms" for spouses, friends, parents or anyone else who needs a little rest while the shopper in the family finishes the season's browsing.
 Mr. Morris, along with other retail analysts, said the merchants had another ace in the hole that gave them some confidence they did not have last year: more time.
 There is one additional day between Thanksgiving and Christmas and, perhaps more significantly, a nice fat four-day weekend after Christmas. Last year, the holiday fell on a Wednesday, and many employers ordered the help back to work the next day, or Friday at the latest.
 "So the retailers I've talked with figure that if the no-promotions strategy doesn't work, they can always mark the prices down after Christmas or maybe the week before," Mr. Morris said. (The biggest shopping day of the year is the Saturday before Christmas.)
 But many analysts and industry experts -- and even some retailers -- are skeptical that the industry can hold the line.
 "It's a nice theory, but most retailers are very predictable," said Ronald Frasch, chief executive of Bergdorf Goodman, where he says the biggest sales will happen after Christmas. "They won't have the confidence to back away from the volume these sales bring. If last year, they had 10 sales between November and December, this year they might plan to have five -- that's 50 percent less --but can they pull it off? It's been so ingrained in so many customers." (Mr. Frasch offered this handicap: most designer clothing goes on sale the first week of December at most stores -- including Bergdorf's -- "and nobody's going to push that back," he said.)
 Arnold Aronson, the chief retailing consultant for Kurt Salmon Associates, agreed. "It's not easy to break a 15-year-old disease, which the stores have inflicted on themselves," he said. Gilbert W. Harrison, the chairman of Financo, an investment banking firm that specializes in the retail industry, said the full-price Christmas was a dream. "Many of the retailers will panic and start to cut prices right after Thanksgiving, if not sooner," he said.
 But Mr. Lundgren and other merchants say it will depend on the store. "The high-end businesses are more likely to command full prices," he said. "That's where there's not very much inventory and you can create a shortage: 'There's only two size 8's left,"' he said.
 Macy's will continue to have promotions from time to time, he said. "But the right merchandise will lead to more regular-price selling, he added."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Saks Fifth Avenue store in Las Vegas offers a lounge area in the men's department as an invitation, perhaps, to spend some time and also some money. (Photo by John Locher for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (91%); RETAILERS (91%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); PRODUCT PRICING (78%); SALES PROMOTIONS (78%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); TOYS & GAMES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (73%); THANKSGIVING (73%); DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); SALES & SELLING (66%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (65%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (62%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Apparel; Christmas; Consumer Behavior; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Inventories (Economic Indicator)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (91%); GAP INC (84%); PACIFIC SUNWEAR OF CALIFORNIA INC (74%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (91%); AFT (FRA) (91%); GPS (NYSE) (84%); PSUN (NASDAQ) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (74%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (74%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (74%); SIC5611 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORY STORES (74%)

PERSON: Tracie Rozhon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003 



518 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Divided Over Iran's Nuclear Program, Agency Delays Action 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
The United States and Europe remain at such loggerheads over how harshly to rebuke Iran for its secret nuclear program that the board of the International Atomic Energy Agency on Friday delayed the passage of a resolution until at least the middle of next week.
 Diplomats in Vienna, where the agency is based, have wrangled for days over the wording of the resolution, with the United States demanding tougher language and making threats of taking further action against Iran. 
 "There was no coming together on the text of a resolution," said Melissa Fleming, a spokeswoman for the agency. 
"It was judged that it would not be ripe for tabling until next Wednesday."
The negotiations are now expected to move to Washington, Paris, Berlin and other capitals, where the United States and Europe will try to bridge the gap "at the highest levels," Ms. Fleming said.
Tensions flared during the meeting on Friday after the American ambassador to the agency, Kenneth Brill, criticized its director general, Dr. Mohamed ElBaradei, for declaring in his report on Iran that there was "no evidence" that the Iranian government was seeking a nuclear weapon.
Mr. Brill said the report elaborately documented Iran's clandestine nuclear activities, stretching over 18 years and including its use of advanced laser technology to enrich uranium. 
"It will take time to overcome the damage caused to the agency's credibility by his highly unfortunate and misleading 'no evidence' turn of phrase," Mr. Brill said.
In an unusually tart response, Dr. ElBaradei accused the United States of being disingenuous.
The agency, he said, has long used the word "evidence" to mean "proof," citing his copy of Black's Law Dictionary, which declares that the two words may be used interchangeably. 
"I do take exception to the suggestion that the agency's credibility has been damaged," Dr. ElBaradei said. "We maintain our credibility by continuing to be impartial and factual."
The public clash, rare in the agency's diplomatic culture, reflects a frustration among Bush administration officials about what they see as a lack of aggression in policing the nuclear ambitions of either Iran or Iraq. 
The board did conclude one bit of business, authorizing Dr. ElBaradei to sign an agreement with Iran that would allow the agency to conduct surprise inspections.
Iran must still sign the agreement and ratify it.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Korean Power Plant Suspended
(Reuters) -- The United States and its allies announced Friday that they would suspend work on a nuclear power project in North Korea for a year, a step toward closing down an operation strongly opposed by the Bush administration.
But the organization building the project, the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization, said it would maintain the site while the allies tried to persuade the North Koreans to abandon their nuclear weapons programs.
The group is underwritten by the United States, Japan, South Korea and the European Union.
A spokesman for the organization said that the suspension would start Dec. 1 and that the organization would decide on the future of the project by the time the scheduled suspension ended. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); POWER PLANTS (73%); INSPECTIONS (73%); LASERS (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (61%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) International Atomic Energy Agency; European Union

PERSON: MOHAMED ELBARADEI (89%) Mark Landler; Kenneth (Amb) Brill; Mohamed (Dir Gen) Elbaradei

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (76%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (78%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); NORTHERN ASIA (70%) Iran; Iran

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003 



519 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: As Deadline for 9/11 Aid Nears, Many Relatives Haven't Filed 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
Members of New York's Congressional delegation say the federal government's ambitious effort to compensate the relatives of Sept. 11 victims will fall far short of its intent if Congress does not act soon to extend the Dec. 22 deadline for filing claims.
 Were such a shortfall to occur, it would amount to a major disappointment in what was seen as an extraordinary attempt to compensate thousands of people quickly and generously for one of the worst catastrophes on American soil. 
 So far, about 1,800 families, or only 60 percent of those eligible, have filed claims on behalf of relatives killed at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon and aboard an airliner that crashed in Pennsylvania. That is many fewer than the initial prediction by the fund's administrator, Kenneth R. Feinberg, that 90 to 95 percent of the families would take part. The government has also dispensed far less money to families than the $5 billion that Mr. Feinberg had predicted, writing checks totaling $1.1 billion for death claims, or an average of $1.7 million per family. 
In addition, 1,600 injured people have filed claims, just a small fraction of the thousands of rescue workers and bystanders who are believed to have been hurt.
In recent months, especially since the second anniversary of the attacks, the number of filings has increased to as many as 184 in a single week, fueling optimism among fund administrators that there will be an 11th-hour spike in applications.
Even if the current pace of filing continues, however, the fund is likely to reach its December deadline with hundreds, if not thousands, of eligible families empty-handed. And those who did not file the legal groundwork for a lawsuit against the airlines, New York City or other government entities will be out of options for compensation.
Several members of Congressfrom New York, including Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Representatives Jerrold Nadler and Vito J. Fossella, are pressing the Senate and House to pass companion bills that would extend the fund's filing deadline to Dec. 31, 2004.
"When so many people have yet to file, not only the families but hundreds of injured ground zero workers, I would say a failure to extend the deadline would be more than a shame," Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, a Manhattan Democrat, said yesterday. "I don't think anyone imagined the enormity of what the families would face after the disaster, the struggles over the memorial design, the constant replay of the attacks on TV. All of this makes it easy to understand that this deadline is coming too soon for many of these families."
The lawmakers concede that their effort is a long shot, with the legislation having to clear both houses as Congress tries to grapple with bigger priorities, like Medicare and an energy bill, before it adjourns for the year. But they see a chance to slip it through in the rush of bills.
The September 11th Victim Compensation Fund of 2001 was established by Congress in the days after the terror attacks, in part to protect the airlines from ruinous litigation. Families were asked to waive their right to sue, in exchange for a fast and straightforward process that would award a basic tax-free $250,000 payment for every death, then increase it to reflect a family's economic loss as a result of the death.
Many families who have gone through the process say that after an inauspicious start, the fund's administrator, Mr. Feinberg, has been compassionate and generous in his awards. (Congress did not appropriate a set amount, but authorized Mr. Feinberg to pay what he deemed fit.)
In an interview yesterday, Mr. Feinberg predicted that 85 to 90 percent of the families would file on time and that his staff, which is now working around the clock, would finish its work by June. He declined to say whether he favored an extension, but said he would continue traveling almost nonstop around the country in a last-minute promotional push.
"I believe that people who miss this deadline out of fear, or out of grief, are compounding the tragedy of 9/11," he said. "I think that this is an unprecedented opportunity, and I will meet with any family that wants help in this very, very difficult assignment."
Some families have filed preliminary papers allowing them to sue, and are weighing whether to join the 70 or so people who have filed lawsuits and shunned the fund. But recent court decisions have confused many families as to how long they have to make that decision. 
Some families say that they do not want to accept money from a government that they feel could have done more to prevent the attacks.
Others, especially high-income families who lost a breadwinner, have calculated that an award, which deducts life insurance and workers' compensation, would be insufficient. And still others say they are still too caught up in their grief to take on the paperwork, and memories, involved in filing a claim.
Fund officials say it is easy for people to start the application process, with only minimal documentation, by the December deadline. But they caution that the process can then require several months of gathering documents, answering questions and other work.
William Doyle, whose son Joey died in the trade center and who maintains one of the largest e-mail networks of victims' families, said more than 100 people had contacted him in just the last week about the deadline, unsure of what to do.
"I'm telling you, it takes a long time to get documents, so a lot of people need the extension, a lot of people need it," he said. "There's no question in my mind that there are people who are going to get shut out. There's definitely panic."
The anxiety surrounding the deadline has been brewing since September, when only about 40 percent of those eligible to submit death claims had filed.
A month ago, the National Center for Victims of Crime, a Washington-based advocacy group, found that 87 percent of the families of the dead, including many who had already filed, supported a deadline extension. Now, with this week's announcement of the finalists for the ground zero memorial design, and with the holidays approaching, many families may not have the emotional reserves to tackle the fund.
"I am still encountering family members who are just, for the first time, able to talk about this," said Senator Clinton, who is a co-sponsor of a Senate bill to extend the deadline, submitted by Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont.
Some people have qualms about moving the deadline. Justin T. Green, a partner at Kreindler & Kreindler, which represents almost 500 families, said any talk of an extension might lull some people into a dangerous game of procrastination.
It may be unfair to judge the fund's success solely on statistics. If one family is satisfied, then the fund has arguably done its job, said Larry S. Stewart, who is a former president of Trial Lawyers Care, a national consortium of pro bono lawyers set up to help Sept. 11 families.
Still, Mr. Stewart said the low turnout puzzled him.
"It's surprising that more people have not taken advantage," he said. "I think we'll look back on this, and social scientists will try to analyze why so many people did not file." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); TERRORISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); MEDICARE (78%); HIJACKING (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%) Terrorism; Law and Legislation; World Trade Center (NYC); Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; Pentagon Building; Rescues; Terrorism

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); VITO FOSSELLA (59%); JERROLD NADLER (59%); CAROLYN MALONEY (59%) David W Chen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; New York City; Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003 



520 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: A REGION INFLAMED: ISTANBUL; 
Turkish Police Arrest Suspects in Attacks on British Sites

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
Turkish authorities said Friday that they had arrested several people in connection with two huge truck-bomb explosions that killed 30 people here on Thursday. Three groups claiming to have links with Al Qaeda have declared responsibility for the attacks.
 Though the suicide bombings on Thursday were aimed at British interests here, only four of the dead were reported to be British. The rest were all believed to be Turkish. 
 Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul said at a news conference that the police had made a number of arrests, but would not say how many. Mr. Gul said it was too early to give more information, and Turkey has banned government officials from talking about the investigations.
The bombings followed two earlier suicide attacks that killed 25 Turks at Istanbul synagogues on Saturday. Six people were reported under arrest on Wednesday in those attacks.
The daily newspaper Hurriyet reported that the police were looking into the possibility that two men, Azad Ekinci and Feridun Ugurlu, who are believed to have purchased the Isuzu pickup trucks used in the synagogue attacks, were the suicide bombers at the British sites on Thursday. They were earlier reported to have fled to Dubai.
The string of four attacks in five days has realized many Turks' fears that their country would be drawn into the intensifying struggle between militant Islamic terror groups and the United States, particularly after the widely unpopular American-led invasion of Iraq. 
Security was tightened Friday throughout Istanbul as several countries, including the United States, warned citizens against going to Turkey because of intelligence reports that there may be more attacks.
Turkey's National Security Council held a five-hour meeting to review intelligence about local Islamic militant groups. Scotland Yard sent 16 officers from its antiterrorism branch to help in the investigation. 
Foreign Secretary Jack Straw of Britain, who arrived in Istanbul after Thursday's attacks, said Turkey had become a target because it was a "successful democracy" in an Islamic world where few governments were freely elected.
"This was as much an attack on the Turkish people as it was upon British interests, and we stand together with Turkey in this," Mr. Straw said at a joint news conference with Mr. Gul. He said Britain would increase its support for Turkey's application to join the European Union.
But as this dazed city began burying its dead, anger over the violence focused on the United States and Turkey's ties to the West as much as it did on the terrorists responsible. 
Like many people, Zehra Toprakceker, 24, weeping at the home of a friend who was killed at the British Consulate, one of the targets on Thursday, blamed America for pulling her country into a violent orbit, with its campaign against terrorism and invasion of Iraq.
"The U.S. paved the way for these attacks," she said as women wailed in a dimly lighted room behind her.
Beyond the violence, Turks worry that the instability will sink their feeble economy, which is emerging from decades of triple-digit inflation and a recession. The Istanbul stock exchange remained closed Friday after plunging more than 7 percent in the immediate wake of the attacks.
President Bush called Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Friday from Air Force One to offer condolences and words of support as he flew from London to Prime Minister Tony Blair's parliamentary district in northeast England.
"The president said the U.S. is ready to help in any way, and both leaders reaffirmed that they stand shoulder to shoulder," said Sean McCormack, a White House spokesman.
Publicly, Mr. Erdogan said of the attackers, who struck during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan: "Those who bloodied this holy day and massacred innocent people will account for it in both worlds. They will be damned until eternity."
Many Turks wondered openly whether their government's close ties to the United States were worth it. There is a growing perception among some here that the United States is using Turkey for its own economic and political ends in the region, regardless of the damage it inflicts. In particular, many Turks see the war in Iraq as an American grab for power and oil.
"We're paying the price for other countries' profits," said a man at one of the funerals on Friday.
The facade of the British-owned HSBC bank's office tower, where a pickup truck loaded with explosives detonated Thursday, was left stripped by the blast. The second pickup truck, which apparently crashed through the British Consulate's front gate, left a deep crater several feet inside the compound. 
Three groups with apparent Qaeda links have claimed responsibility so far, including a small militant Turkish group known as the Islamic Great Eastern Raiders' Front, or IBDA-C. The group earlier claimed responsibility for the synagogue bombings on Saturday.
IBDA-C, which has called for the establishment of an Islamic state in Turkey, was founded in 1984 by Salih Izzet Erdis, a former member of the same Islamist political movement that produced Mr. Erdogan.
Mr. Erdis was arrested in 1998 and is now serving a life sentence in prison. His group has been blamed for small-scale attacks in the past, most recently the 1997 assassination attempt on a prominent Jewish businessman. But many members of IBDA-C are believed to have trained abroad, where they may have come into contact with Al Qaeda.
Another group, Abu Hafs al-Masri Brigades, also claimed responsibility for the attacks on Thursday, as it did for the synagogue bombings on Saturday. But terrorism experts question the credibility of the group, named for an alias of the late Qaeda leader Muhammad Atef.
Another suspected Qaeda member, Abu Muhammad al-Ablaj, claimed responsibility for Thursday's attacks in a statement e-mailed to a London-based Arab newspaper. The newspaper reported that Mr. Ablaj warned of a "big operation" in the next few months and cautioned Japan against sending troops to Iraq. Tokyo, the e-mail message reportedly said, "is the easiest place to destroy."
At the funeral of Nazmi Harmankaya, 35, who was killed Thursday, an imam called for Muslims to "be united in their prayers against such insane attacks." But among the crowd of men that gathered to pray around the coffin wrapped in a Turkish flag, there was bitterness for what American policy has wrought.
"The attacks are a warning that we are Muslims and shouldn't get involved with America and Europe," said a local soccer coach at the cemetery where Mr. Harmankaya was buried. "If the government keeps on being close to the West, if they continue talking about the E.U. and the U.S., these attacks will continue."
But later in the conversation he reflected the complexity of Turkey's situation. "We're Muslims, and so how can I feel part of the West?" he asked, "But if Turkey turns its back on the West, how can we survive?"
He said Turkey had to maintain a perfect balance between the Middle East and Europe, adding, "Whenever we put more weight on one side or the other, we get hit."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The fiancee of a bombing victim, left, at his funeral yesterday in Istanbul. Above, a man who was wounded at the British Consulate. (Photo by Reuters); Mourners yesterday at the funeral for Nazmi Harmankaya, 35, who was killed Thursday in the bombing of the British Consulate in Istanbul. (Photo by Lynsey Addario/Corbis, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (91%); BOMBINGS (91%); ARRESTS (91%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); TRENDS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Terrorism; Bombs and Explosives; United States International Relations; Travel and Vacations; Politics and Government; Islam; Economic Conditions and Trends; Travel Restrictions

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%)

PERSON: ABDULLAH GUL (79%); JACK STRAW (79%) Craig S Smith; Abdullah (Min) Gul; Jack (Sec) Straw; George W (Pres) Bush; Recep Tayyip (Pres) Erdogan

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (94%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) TURKEY (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Turkey; Istanbul (Turkey); Turkey

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003 



521 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: Senate Blocks Energy Bill; Backers Vow to Try Again 

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
Senate opponents of the energy bill blocked a final vote on the measure on Friday, at least temporarily derailing one of the primary policy initiatives of the Bush presidency.
 The defeat came on a day of fast-paced developments on Capitol Hill as House Republicans and the White House worked feverishly to round up support for a plan to add prescription drug coverage to Medicare, another important domestic initiative of the White House, and to quiet concerns of conservatives over the potential costs. The Medicare bill cleared a major procedural hurdle late Friday night. Page A12. 
 The fate of the two marquee bills was to be decided as Congress also struggled to finish its work on spending bills. Resolving one major issue snarling the spending measures, key lawmakers said they had abandoned an effort to block new White House rules on overtime pay. 
President Bush immediately plunged into the Congressional debate upon his return from Britain on Friday afternoon. In a brief exchange with reporters after stepping off his helicopter, Mr. Bush urged lawmakers to accept the Medicare plan and, he blamed a "minority of senators" for holding up the energy measure.
"For the sake of our national security and economic security, the Senate's got to pass this bill," Mr. Bush said of the energy initiative. 
The authors of the energy proposal, which provides billions of dollars in industry tax breaks and seeks to make the power grid more reliable, fell just short of the 60 votes needed to cut off debate on the measure, leaving its enactment in jeopardy with little time left in the Congressional session. The vote was 57 to 40, and the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, sided with the opponents in a parliamentary maneuver that preserves his right to bring the energy legislation up for another vote.
Dr. Frist promised that the Senate would try again to cut off the filibuster before adjourning. Backers of the measure immediately turned to trying to win over two or more senators so they could advance the bill.
"In good faith, we're going to start trying to find out, working together, what we might do to get those senators that didn't vote with us," said Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico and chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
Saying they recognized they could not yet declare victory, the organizers of the filibuster said they would try to hold the opposition together against what they predicted would be a fierce lobbying onslaught from the Bush administration as well as efforts by the leadership to entice senators with promises of projects in other bills.
"The store is open," said Senator John McCain of Arizona, one of six Republicans besides Dr. Frist who joined with 32 Democrats and one independent to stall the bill. Thirteen Democrats and 44 Republicans voted to move to final passage.
Despite easy approval of the energy plan by the House on Tuesday, opposition mounted in the Senate throughout the week. Lawmakers from both parties condemned the proposal, developed mainly by pro-industry Republicans, for its $31 billion price tag, its subsidies for power companies, a plan to provide legal immunity to producers of a gasoline additive blamed for water pollution, and its failure to promote alternative energy savings plans like better fuel efficiency.
"On the whole, this just wasn't good for America," said Senator John E. Sununu, Republican of New Hampshire and another leader of the filibuster.
Republicans who assembled the energy package had counted on a major expansion of subsidies for corn-based ethanol to bring along Midwestern Democrats in spite of misgivings. The Senate Democratic leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, and Democrats from farm states such as Iowa, North Dakota and Minnesota did side with the Republicans, but their support was not enough.
The energy proposal is second only to Medicare prescription drug coverage as a domestic priority of Congressional Republicans and the White House. Failure to enact the measure, particularly in the aftermath of the blackout in the summer, would be considered a loss for them.
With two key pieces of legislation in play as well as major issues tied up in a series of spending bills that are being merged, White House officials said Mr. Bush has been in regular contact with Congressional leaders during his trip to London, and the White House was expected to continue its activity over the weekend.
After the morning vote, proponents of the energy bill met behind closed doors around the Capitol to try to find a way to save the measure. Lawmakers and aides said attention focused on Democratic senators from West Virginia and Hawaii who supported the filibuster. 
The effort to break the filibuster was complicated by the fact that the bill could not be changed without getting the House to approve it again. 
Mr. Daschle, in a bid to rescue the ethanol program that would be a boon to his state, suggested that the leadership strip the provision on the gasoline additive MTBE that has drawn so much resistance. Mr. Daschle proposed tacking the rest of the energy measure on to a catch-all $285 billion spending plan.
"This simple action would have the energy bill, as imperfect as it is, ready for the president's signature this session," said Mr. Daschle.
But House Republicans, who have insisted on the liability protection for MTBE producers, said they would not budge. "The MTBE and ethanol provisions are a true compromise that will become law," said Tom DeLay, the House majority leader.
With the measure in trouble, industry representatives scrambled to try to reverse the vote. The energy bill, which would be the first in a decade, has been in difficult negotiations for almost three years, and leaders in the fossil fuel, electric and renewable fuels industries say they do not want to see it lost this close to enactment.
"It is frankly appalling that America will again be denied an energy bill," said Bob Dinneen, head of the ethanol trade association.
But opponents of the measure say blocking it was the only way to treat what they described as a proposal laden with special interests and drafted by Republicans who "overreached" after being warned that the MTBE provisions and other elements could sink the bill. They said they would be monitoring the effort to win back support but were optimistic they would prevail.
"They are not going to be able to make a cosmetic change or two and slide this bill through lickety-split," said Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon.
Even if the authors clear the filibuster hurdle, Mr. Sununu said he planned to try to block the bill by invoking budgetary rules.
Not all the activity was on the floor. Congressional appropriators were trying to wrap up seven remaining spending measures but were caught in an impasse over a provision to block the White House from enacting rules that critics say would strip millions of workers of the right to overtime pay. The talks over that provision and others raised the prospect that lawmakers might have to return after Thanksgiving to finish the spending package.
On Friday afternoon, Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, said he was negotiating with the White House on a compromise. But by Friday evening, Congressional aides said, Mr. Specter backed down, and the provision was withdrawn from the bill, handing the White House a victory.
Also on Friday night, Democrats reached agreement with the administration on an issue that had held up approval of the bill reauthorizing the Federal Aviation Administration. The White House was seeking authority to contract out thousands of air traffic controller jobs, in airport towers and in offices that provide services to private pilots. Under the agreement, no additional jobs will be contracted out in the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30.
A forest measure that has taken three years to produce will make it easier to thin forests near populated areas to prevent fires, though critics said it could lead to increased logging. The House approved it 286-140; the Senate by voice vote.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Jim Talent of Missouri leading Senators Charles E. Grassley of Iowa and Norm Coleman of Minnesota, all Republican backers of energy bill, yesterday after announcing a lack of votes. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY REGULATION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); MEDICARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FILIBUSTER (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); LOBBYING (79%); APPROPRIATIONS (79%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); APPROVALS (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); OVERTIME (68%); WRITERS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%) Energy and Power; Medicine and Health; Medicare; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Law and Legislation; Filibusters and Debate Curbs; Energy and Power

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (59%); NORM COLEMAN (59%); PETE DOMENICI (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%) Carl Hulse; George W (Pres) Bush; Bill (Sen) Frist

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003 



522 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: 33 Years Later, Draft Becomes Topic for Dean 

BYLINE:  By RICK LYMAN and CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
In the winter of 1970, a 21-year-old student from Yale walked into his armed services physical in New York carrying X-rays and a letter from his orthopedist, eager to know whether a back condition might keep him out of the military draft. 
 This was not an uncommon scene in 1970, when medical deferments were a frequently used avenue for those reluctant to take part in the unpopular war in Vietnam. And this story would have little interest save that Howard Dean was the name of the young man. Now, 33 years later, he finds himself a leading Democrat in the quest for the party's nomination to be president of the United States. 
 Dr. Dean got the medical deferment, but in a recent interview he said he probably could have served had he not mentioned the condition. 
"I guess that's probably true," he said. "I mean, I was in no hurry to get into the military."
But now that he is running for president, in a race when many Democrats believe they need a candidate with strong national security credentials to challenge President Bush, the choices Dr. Dean, a former Vermont governor, made 33 years ago are providing ammunition for critics.
Senator John Kerry and Gen. Wesley K. Clark, two of his strongest challengers for the Democratic nomination, have recently started running advertisements highlighting their military experience. And all the Democratic candidates except Carol Moseley Braun had to face the possibility of being drafted during the Vietnam War.
In the 10 months after his graduation from Yale, time he might otherwise have spent in uniform, Dr. Dean lived the life of a ski bum in Aspen, Colo. His back condition did not affect his skiing the way the rigors of military service would have, he said, nor did it prevent him from taking odd jobs like pouring concrete in the warm months and washing dishes when it got cold. 
Even the candidate's mother, Andree Maitland Dean, said in a recent interview about his skiing after receiving a medical deferment, "Yeah, that looks bad."
But, she said, that is the nature of his condition. It is aggravated by certain kinds of physical activity but not all kinds, she said. The condition is called spondylolysis, a low-back pain that sometimes radiates into the legs, according to the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons' online information site. 
Dr. Dean said it was the military's decision to grant him the deferment, but he also said he was eager to get it. Had he wanted to serve, he probably could have.
Ever since the first politicians who came of draft age during the Vietnam War rose to the national stage, the question has been a recurring one: Did you serve in Southeast Asia, or did you take a different path?
Dan Quayle, the Republican vice-presidential candidate in 1988, was criticized by opponents who said he hadused family connections to land a spot in the Indiana National Guard, which he denied doing. In 2000, George W. Bush drew similar attacks and issued a similar denial for landing his spot in the Texas Air National Guard. And Bill Clinton's machinations to avoid military service led to accusations that he was a draft-dodging product of the 1960's, a label he was never entirely able to shake.
In each case, the answer did not prevent the candidates from winning. But Mr. Quayle was running with the senior George Bush, a former World War II pilot with combat experience, and by the time Mr. Clinton and George W. Bush sought the presidency, the cold war had ended and defense had receded as an issue. The terrorist attacks of 9/11 and the war in Iraq have changed that, and national security will probably rival the economy as a major issue in next year's campaign.
Dr. Dean may well draw the early heat on the issue because he has pushed near the front of the Democratic pack. Beyond that, two of his opponents -- General Clark, a West Point graduate who served in Vietnam and rose to command NATO forces, and Mr. Kerry, who served two tours in Vietnam and came away with a Bronze Star, a Silver Star and three Purple Hearts -- regularly remind voters of their military credentials. 
The other candidates are less likely to make it an issue because they did not serve in Vietnam either.
Like Dr. Dean, Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio was declared ineligible for a medical reason, a heart murmur. He said he was disappointed not to be able to serve, though he later turned against the war.
"I come from a working-class family," Mr. Kucinich said. "Military service is more or less taken as a given." Ms. Braun, a former senator from Illinois, was, of course, ineligible for the draft because she is a woman.
Young men with low draft lottery numbers had only a handful of choices to avoid military service. One was to flee the country, to Canada or elsewhere, as a relative handful did. Others chose National Guard service, if they could get it. 
For many who did not wish to serve, a medical deferment was the easiest route of escape. 
In a 1970 article in The New York Times, Curtis W. Tarr, the director of Selective Service, said the rising number of medical deferments -- from 24.2 percent of those examined in 1966 to 40.7 percent in July 1969 -- was causing alarm in Washington.
"It's one of the real inequities left in the system," Mr. Tarr said, because young men from wealthier families could afford to pay for tests that might uncover some deferrable medical condition.
Dr. Dean was born on Nov. 17, 1948, and his eligibility for the draft was determined by a lottery held on Dec. 1, 1969. His birth date was 143, and in 1969 people with numbers as high as 195 were drafted from this group, which was composed of men born between Jan. 1, 1944 and Dec. 31, 1950, according to the Selective Service. In 1970 the highest number taken was 125, and in 1971 it was 95. Three subsequent lotteries were held to cover those born in later years. 
The back condition that apparently led to Dr. Dean's deferment had been discovered years before his armed services physical.
"When he was in high school, Howard developed these back pains and we decided we had to find out what it was," his mother said.
Dr. Dean went to an orthopedist, who diagnosed spondylolysis. 
Many have the condition without feeling any symptoms, the Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons site says. Others develop a sense of muscle strain in the lower back, usually after periods of extreme physical exertion. Treatment usually involves little more than taking a break from the physical activity that caused the condition, after which it fades away, although it can recur. In some cases, surgery is warranted.
"I developed back pain when I was running track" in high school, Dr. Dean said. "It wasn't there all the time, but it was there some of the time."
In early 1970, more than a year before Dr. Dean's student deferment was due to lapse, he decided to see where he stood. 
If approved for service, he said, he thought he might try Officer Candidate School, as a Yale friend had done. He said he had never considered the National Guard.
So, he came to his physical armed with X-rays and a letter from his orthopedist. 
"It was like a scene from the movie 'Alice's Restaurant,' " Dr. Dean said. "There was every kind of person you can imagine. Guys who weighed 375, guys who were 6-feet-5 with hair down to their knees and needle tracks up and down their arms."
Dr. Dean said he saw a young man sharing his urine specimen with a fellow draftee. "I mean, that is what it was like," Dr. Dean said. "Welcome to the U.S. Army, boys."
The future governor followed everyone through the various stages of the physical, eventually handing his packet to a military orthopedist. 
A few weeks later, a letter arrived informing him that his draft classification had been changed from 2-S, the student deferment, to 1-Y. Under that classification, he was qualified for military service only in case of extreme national emergency, meaning that he effectively moved to the very back of the line.
As for those months skiing, Dr. Dean said such activity did not exacerbate his back condition, as running did. And, yes, he said, the pain does sometimes come back, especially now that he is getting older. 
"Sometimes you'll see, when I get out of the plane or the car, that I walk and there's a bit of a limp for the first few yards," he said. "If I sit in one position for too long, it bothers me now."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 1, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Nov. 22 about the military draft history of former Gov. Howard Dean of Vermont misstated the years in which bearers of certain lottery numbers were called during the war in Vietnam. Men with 195 and lower were drafted in 1970, not 1969. Those with 125 or lower were drafted in 1971, not 1970. Those with 95 or lower were drafted in 1972, not 1971.

GRAPHIC: Photos/Chart: "FOR THE RECORD: Questions of Service"The military service or draft status of the Democratic presidential candidates during the Vietnam era: Served in Vietnam Wesley K. Clark, 58After West Point, Oxford and Army training, served in the First Infantry Division in Vietnam from May 1969 to February 1970. Won a Silver Star and a Purple Heart. John Kerry, 59While still at Yale, enlisted in the Navy in 1966, and served two tours in Vietnam, winning three Purple Hearts, a Bronze Star and a Silver Star. He returned to become an outspoken opponent of the war. Served in the National Guard or received student deferments Richard A. Gephardt, 62Joined the Missouri Air National Guard after his student deferment lapsed in 1965. Became a lawyer in the judge advocate's office and stayed in the National Guard until 1971. Joseph I. Lieberman, 61Received student deferments from 1961 through 1967 while at Yale and Yale Law School. After finishing law school, received a parental deferment with his wife pregnant. Received medical deferments Howard Dean, 55While a senior at Yale in 1970, told authorities of a back condition, spondylolysis, and received a medical deferment. His draft lottery number was 143, meaning he would have been likely to be drafted, according to the Selective Service. Dennis J. Kucinich, 57Was declared ineligible for the draft because of a heart murmur found during a high school physical for the football team. He applied for the exemption when he got his draft card. Draft ending as they became eligible John Edwards, 50Received a relatively high number in the draft lottery when he became eligible in 1972. The draft ended before he was called up. Al Sharpton, 49Was eligible in the 1972 lottery, when his number was 103, a relatively safe number since even in the previous year, the draft reached only as high as the number 95. Carol Moseley Braun was not eligible for the draft because she is a woman. (pg. A11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ORTHOPEDICS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); SKIING (89%); VIETNAM WAR (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); POLITICS (74%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%) Presidential Election of 2004; Biographical Information; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (59%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); JOHN EDWARDS (78%); AL SHARPTON (59%); JOE LIEBERMAN (55%); DENNIS KUCINICH (54%) Rick Lyman; Christopher Drew; Howard (Dr) Dean; John (Sen) Kerry; Wesley K (Gen) (Ret) Clark; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) VIET NAM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003 



523 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: A REGION INFLAMED: OCCUPATION; 
Baathists, Once Reviled, Prove Difficult to Remove

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
Purging Iraq of the Baath Party, the backbone of Saddam Hussein's dictatorship, has proved more difficult than many Iraqis had imagined.
 In some provinces where the party's roots were deep, high-ranking party members kept their government jobs because local officials said they were afraid to make changes. In other cases, American Army commanders have intervened to keep senior Baathists on the official payroll, reasoning that firing people only feeds public resentment. 
 Even when there is the will to dismiss top Baathists, it has sometimes been difficult to find the way. In the chaotic weeks following the old government's collapse, computer records in many ministries were stealthily altered to effectively demote thousands of once privileged party bosses, said officials of Iraq's interim government. 
"A lot of Baath Party members changed their ranks in the files during April and May, when the institutions of the state were empty," said the new minister of finance, Kamel al-Keilani, who is the paymaster of the huge public sector. "You'd think the only active Baathist was Saddam Hussein and all the rest were low-ranking nobodies."
The Baath Party's tentacles stretched to every university, school, ministry, hospital and city hall. Members benefited from preferential treatment in work and education, salary bonuses and a license to humiliate others, according to Iraqis who lived under its rule. 
But membership was also a social passport, they say, a requirement for some positions as well as a means to demonstrate allegiance to a rule that severely punished disloyalty. When L. Paul Bremer III, the head of the American occupation authority, outlawed the party in May, some 2.5 million people, out of a total population of 25 million, were believed to be Baath Party members. 
No one proposed firing all of them, but Mr. Bremer and the Iraqi Governing Council did decree that Baathists in the top three ranks of the party, an estimated 120,000 people, be removed from their government jobs. The council's resolution was issued in September. Two weeks ago, Mr. Bremer set out a procedure for investigating senior party officials, noting that, "the Iraqi people have suffered large-scale human rights abuses and deprivations over many years at the hands of the Baath Party." 
But even the most adamant advocates of a purge now say that time, economics and pragmatic considerations have moderated their ambitions. 
"We had hoped there would be a radical shake-up but as time has gone on, prudence has taken over," said Ali Alawi, the new trade minister and a former political exile who spent years polishing a plan to de-Baathify Iraq once Saddam Hussein was gone. "In the context of this country and its various upheavals, one has to be careful."
A good example of those reduced expectations is Mosul, Iraq's second largest city and the base of the 82nd Airborne Division, which controls the northern swath of the country. 
The capital of Nineveh Province, Mosul is home to thousands of once senior party members, including 1,100 former Iraqi Army officers with the rank of brigadier general and above, according to the American military. At its university, 120 professors and other workers held high ranks in the party. In its public school system, 937 employees had climbed to Baath's top positions. 
"Do you throw 900 teachers out of work and tell them they can never work in their field again, and then not expect them to turn against you?" asked Maj. Gen. David H. Petraeus, the division commander.
Throwing people of authority and expertise onto the street, he said, would negate the mission of the occupation forces to subdue resistance and win friends. "To beat this you can't just kill the bad guys," the general added. "You've got to give people jobs." 
At the crowded offices of the provincial education department, the new director general, Said Hamed, was more ambivalent but powerless to buck the American commander. 
Mr. Hamed has worked for the school system for 22 years. He never joined the Baath Party, a choice that he said left him with a salary half that of subordinates who did join. 
Senior party members in the system include teachers, schoolmasters and high-level bureaucrats. Mr. Hamed has no sympathy for them.
"They didn't get their jobs based on qualifications, but on their political activities," he said. 
But it fell to Mr. Hamed to enforce the orders from the Governing Council and Mr. Bremer in Baghdad. Faced with firing 937 people and incurring the displeasure of the American commander, he said he had decided to demote the senior Baathists but keep them on the payroll.
"They know they made a mistake and they say that now all they want to do is provide for their families," he said. "Of course, they didn't care in the old days about other people's families. But now we are letting them work because we do care about their families -- and we worry about what might happen to us. It's to avoid troubles."
The governor of Nineveh Province, a former Iraqi Army general who fell out of favor with Saddam Hussein 10 years ago, expressed similar misgivings. 
"This just shouldn't hang in the air," said the governor, Ghanem al-Basso. "If they aren't taken care of, they could join the ranks of the enemies." 
General Petraeus, who set up his base in a huge stone palace built by Mr. Hussein on a hill north of Mosul, has tried to take care of the problem in his own way. He created job programs for many of the people who were fired by Mr. Bremer and the council in their efforts to rid Iraq of its old security apparatus, centered on the army, the secret police and the Information Ministry. He strongly encouraged the University of Mosul to sort through the cases of professors who were high-level Baathists and was pleased when the school gave 65 percent of them a reprieve.
"I'm not saying that all these people by any means should be kept, but if you are going to tell people that they're never going to work again, you might as well throw them in jail," General Petreaus told Ahmed Chalabi, the head of the Governing Council's de-Baathification committee, last week. 
Mr. Chalabi was less than sympathetic. "At least they can eat there," he said. 
"You've made an enemy of their whole family, though," said the general. "If you could only see the record of the Baath Party," Mr. Chalabi replied. "People need to see justice done."
"Keep them on the job and you watch them, then," the general told him. "If they are anti-new Iraq, then you throw them in jail." 
Most officials, whether they are eager to fire top Baathists or reluctant, said the ideal process would examine each individual, case by case, to sort out those members of the party elite who did harm and those who did not.
It would be a Herculean effort, said Mr. Alawi, the trade minister.
"Obviously those people who are in the top ranks must go," he said. "But the Baath has percolated so far into the structure of society that it's difficult to isolate. It's like pouring coffee into a sponge. It becomes intermingled."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Ghanem al-Basso of Nineveh Province in northern Iraq. (Photo by Ashley Gilbertson/Aurora, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); RANKINGS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (86%); AL-QAEDA (79%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); RELIGION (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); ARMIES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); POLITICS (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (60%) Terrorism; Islam; Terrorism; Politics and Government; Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union; Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%) Douglas Jehl; Don Jr Van Natta; Saddam (Pres) Hussein; Susan Sachs

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Europe; Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2003 



524 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: A Not-So-Dutiful Daughter 

BYLINE:  By Deborah Mason; Deborah Mason is a writer and critic who lives in New York.

 BODY:
 THE OPPOSITE OF FATE
A Book of Musings.
By Amy Tan.
398 pp. New York:
G. P. Putnam's Sons. $24.95.
 AMY TAN turned Ouija-board thug at 15, sabotaging its responses in order to advance her own interests. Her mother had begun pleading with the board for advice after Tan's father died: "Amy treat me so bad. . . . What I should do -- send her Taiwan, school for bad girls?" The Ouija board clearly had strong feelings on the subject. "The planchette deftly scooted to the correct answer: No," drastically altering the fate of this dexterous daughter.
The creative rewriting of their destinies is the trademark of many of Tan's characters in "The Joy Luck Club" and the three novels that followed. Now, in her first collection of essays, Tan reports on her own very American negotiations with the contract of Chinese fate -- from hammering out a detente with a depressive mother hellbent on raising an obedient daughter to, most recently, bucking the doctors who for years dismissed Tan's distressing neurological symptoms of advanced Lyme disease.
Many of the essays in "The Opposite of Fate" are sharp and invigorating, like "Mother Tongue," Tan's defense of the fierce, primal authority of her mother's "broken" English. Some are slight and a bit precious (her paean to singing with a rock band of writers). Others are droll self-snapshots: copping, for example, to a home armed with Chinese "good luck charms . . . strategically placed mirrors, and heaven forgive me, New Age crystals." But it is Tan's excursions into past lives -- her family's and her own -- that make for the most fertile reading.
In "The CliffsNotes Version of My Life," she recounts a Northern California childhood pinned between two clashing ideologies: the God-will-provide-for-you faith of her Baptist minister father and the dictatorship of fate that ruled her mother. As a child, Tan was trained to appease two kinds of ghosts. Her father's Holy Ghost, she was told, "sat at our dinner table and ate Chinese food. We laid out chopsticks and a bowl for our unseen guest at every meal." Her mother's old-country ghosts chose to stay in hiding. "Yet they were there," Tan writes. "I could sense them. My mother told me I could."
In these essays, most of which have appeared in national magazines, the motherland is less a geographical place than an alternative universe of fraught symbiosis, love and, for years, emotional captivity. It is "a world," Tan writes, "in which the mother . . . can make the girl see yin when it is yang. The girl sees that her mother, who is her ally, is also her adversary." As a result, Tan says, her childhood was shadowed by a "sense of double jeopardy; realizing that my mother could both help me and hurt me, in the best and worst ways possible."
When Tan began to date, her mother offered this hardly reassuring advice: "Don't ever let boy kiss you. You do, you can't stop. Then you have baby. You put baby in garbage can. Police find you, put you in jail, then you life over, better just kill youself." In truth, it was Tan's mother, Daisy, who wanted to kill herself, threatening to do so "sometimes weekly, sometimes daily, whenever she was displeased with me or my father or my brothers, whenever she felt slighted by her friends, whenever the milk spilled or the rice burned." What Tan didn't learn for decades was that horrific memories stalked her mother daily. Daisy Tan's own mother, the young widow of a vice magistrate in China, had been raped by a rich man and forced to become his concubine. The shamed widow killed herself by swallowing a large dose of raw opium as her 9-year-old daughter looked on. Later in her life, when being tested for Alzheimer's disease, Daisy growled: "Nothing wrong my memory. Depress 'cause can not forget."
The cunning willfulness of memory is a powerful refrain in this book. Tan considers how she, like her mother, became frozen in one frame of time, a slave to her own punishing recollections. In "Scent," she relates how one whiff of a gardenia would plunge her into the "unbearable grief" of the year in her midteens when the living room was twice filled with funeral sprays after both her father and brother died of brain tumors. Now, she says, she is submerging those black memories into others of "an earlier time, of happy expectations," when the scent of a gardenia meant "prom nights and first kisses."
In describing how we edit and manipulate memory, Tan produces some of her strongest essays. "Confessions" recalls a violent standoff with her mother over Tan's first real boyfriend, a mangy deserter from the German Army, that ended with Tan's mother holding a meat cleaver to her daughter's neck. Having repressed the memory for 25 years, Tan suddenly remembers it and, with the older woman failing, nervously brings it up. "Angry? Slap you?" her mother laughs. "No, no, no. You always good girl, never even need to spank, not even one time." "How wonderful to hear her say what was never true," Tan remarks, "yet now would be forever so."
Tan's novels swim with memories transfigured by the pulse of her imagination -- the sorcery of writing fiction that she says many academics ignore. Instead, they rope off her books under "multicultural literature," scan them for sociology lessons and -- this really ticks her off -- imbue her with "ethnic authority." "Contrary to what some . . . assume," she snaps back in the riveting essay "Required Reading and Other Dangerous Subjects," "I am not an expert on China, Chinese culture, mah-jongg . . . racial tension, Tiananmen Square . . . Pacific Rim economics . . . or, I am sorry to say, Chinese cooking." The label she most prefers? "American writer."
In Tan's case, "American writer" also entails the odd life of a literary celebrity. Some of these essays reveal how she relishes it; others spill out its less comfortable aspects: the Web fanzines that get their facts all wrong; the notes pressed into her hand at book signings by would-be collaborators. One read: "Father hanged, mother murdered, uncle shot, baby son drowned, wife insane, me, almost died twice, all horrible ways. Want to write about me? Call me. Let's talk."
In the end, these essays ask, what does it take to construct and balance a life? For Tan, it requires engaging fate, "both blind and blessed," with aggressive creativity and ducking from time to time into the big tent of fate's "alternatives": "choice, chance, luck, faith, forgiveness, forgetting . . . the balm of love, a sturdy attitude . . . trolling for miracles, a plea to others to throw a lifeline" -- the whole shebang anchored by stubborn hope. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); WRITERS (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); LYME DISEASE (66%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (66%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (66%); POP & ROCK (64%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: G P PUTNAM'S SONS (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



525 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1938 words

HEADLINE: In Bustling Bangkok, An Exotic Allure 

BYLINE:  By R.W. APPLE Jr.; R.W. APPLE Jr. is associate editor of The New York Times.

 BODY:
IT'S easy when you first visit a city to form a lasting impression on the basis of what you see on the way into town from the airport.
 But don't let that happen to you in Bangkok -- please. 
 As viewed from a bus or a taxi or a hotel car on the expressway, this pulsating capital of seven million is a moonscape of skyscrapers built, half-built and still abuilding, often only dimly visible through the dense, bluish smog. But give yourself a day or two; countless joys and treasures -- artistic, cultural, culinary and otherwise -- await patient travelers.
Remarkably, Bangkok remains one of the most exotic cities in the world, just as it was when I first arrived there, bug-eyed, in 1966. 
In those days, American soldiers on R&R made it Asia's capital of raunch. In the 1980's, when Thailand was one of the continent's economic "tigers," a middle class bloomed, with baht to burn. A military coup marred the 1990's, and then the economy tanked.
Yet for all the changes, certain immutable elements of traditional Thai design, like boldly upswept eaves, polished teak floors and spirit houses, still set the city apart. It has never lost its ability to astonish.
What's more, Bangkok is coming to grips with its problems, chief among them pollution and paralyzing traffic, the terrible twins of the developing world. Efficient use of the Chao Phraya River as a transportation artery, new bridges, more expressways and a growing rapid-transit system are easing the congestion. Sometimes the tropical sun is visible all day long.
Traffic jams nevertheless plague not only the main streets, like Sukhumvit Road, but also the tiny sois (side streets and alleys) running off them. Three-ton elephants tromp disconsolately along four-lane roads, sowing confusion. Living space is inadequate. Bad air is commonplace. But the chaos is soon forgotten inside a cool garden, a smart shop or a deluxe hotel. 
"When I get low," said William Warren, a Georgia-born writer who has lived in the city for 42 years, "I go out on the river, and it buoys me up."
Day and night, the color and exuberance of Thai life envelop the visiting farang, or foreigner. In the gilded, polychrome palaces and wats, or temples. In the food markets, afloat and ashore. In the rich, supersaturated colors of the coveted Thai silks. In the national sport, kick boxing, which brings feet and elbows into combat along with fists. In the fiercely contested kite-flying contests, held in the spring. And in the frequent festivals, large and small, which emphasize sanuk, or fun, rather than ritual.
Example: On the first night of our most recent stay in Bangkok, last winter, my wife, Betsey, and I returned to our 22nd-floor hotel room after dinner and stepped over to the window to look down at the river. Suddenly an aerial tapestry of fireworks, reminiscent of a Fourth of July display in New York, unfolded at close range in front of us. It continued for 20 minutes or so.
"What's the occasion?" I asked the concierge on the phone.
"A wedding," he said. "The bride's father is a rich man."
The first thing I would do, on a two- or three-day get-acquainted stop in Bangkok, is hire a long-tail boat -- the "tail" being formed by the long shaft that links an auto engine to a propeller -- and take a tour through the klongs (canals) around the city.
It is like a motoscafo trip in Venice, only better. Forget about the fake floating markets and the hokey snake farm, and concentrate on how people live, in houseboats and shacks, palaces and rude lean-tos. Watch them row home with their groceries. Watch the laughing monks floating in inner tubes, shaded by towering coconut palms. This is an older, simpler and sweeter Bangkok. Blood-red cannas, purple and yellow orchids and white frangipani make you overlook the garbage drifting past.
You'll also want to visit the 200-year-old Chinatown, a noisy quarter packed with signs, shrines and stalls selling everything from fabrics to herbal medicines, plus the Pak Khlong Market, with the best flowers in Thailand (go at 9 a.m.). The city supports no fewer than six daily papers in Mandarin. M.L. Tri, an architect who belongs to the Thai royal family, told us over dinner that "Bangkok isn't Thai now, it's a Chinese city with Chinese taste" -- never mind that he was eating a thoroughly Thai dish at the time, a green papaya salad with water convolvulus, a green vegetable related to the morning glory.
On a Saturday or Sunday, take the Skytrain north to the Chatuchak Weekend Market, which sells everything imaginable, and the adjacent Aw Taw Kaw food market, open daily, where a morning passes in a minute. On sale are not only an amazing range of fruits and vegetables but also fish and shellfish galore (four kinds of crabs, some as tiny as a half-dollar, others as big as a volleyball). The prepared food is as authentic as any in the city. Try the tiny clams with cross-hatched shells, flavored with fish sauce, Thai basil and chili.
As you may have gathered, it is not monuments and museums that make Bangkok for me. But no one should leave town without visiting the immense Grand Palace to see the Emerald Buddha, which is really jadeite but impressive all the same, and to drink in such superb decorative details as the 112 gilded garudas (half-men, half-birds) and the graceful aponsis (half-women, half-lions). And at the National Museum, despite many run-down, ill-displayed artifacts, there are real masterpieces, like the 14th-century bronze walking Buddha, leaning backward as if to suggest humility, with his left hand raised in blessing.
Jim Thompson's House, assembled from six old teak structures by Thompson, the former American intelligence agent who revived Thai silk weaving in the 1950's, remains as testimony to one man's exquisite taste. Filled with Southeast Asian antiques stretching back to the seventh century, it is maintained as a museum and stands in a lyrical semitropical garden, recently superbly restored.
Just around the corner is one of Bangkok's top places to shop, the Gaysorn Plaza, a marble mall. The Fendis and the Diors of the world are there, but so are quality antiques dealers like Triphum and Lamont & Altfield, a shop named Ayodha specializing in fine silks, celadon and handsome baskets, and Cocoon, the Marimekko of Southeast Asia. Near the Oriental are the Ashwood Gallery, another source of museum-quality antiques, and Lin Silvercraft, a well-stocked and accommodating little shop that engraved a gift for us in the space of an afternoon.
Rasi Sayam, a trove of Thai handicrafts, is across town, off Sukhumvit, where you will also find Almeta for choice textiles and the labyrinthine Emporium Shopping Complex, with a big Thai silk outlet, an excellent Kinokuniya bookshop and Greyhound, a minimalist cafe with great iced coffee and hip waiters whose T-shirts inform you: "Love to say hi! Hate to say bi!"
As in Venice, London and Paris, the sheer delight of great hotels has long been part of the joy of visiting Bangkok.
For many years, the Oriental, in its privileged position on the Chao Phraya, was the standard by which other hotels judged themselves. Its suites, especially those named after authors like Joseph Conrad, are still unmatched.
But for my money, the new Peninsula, across the river in Thonburi, has supplanted it. Altogether more modern, it has a vast, tranquil lobby, softened by urns of flowers standing eight feet tall. In the terrace garden, an allee of orchids leads down to the river, and a sleek pool stretches inland.
The rooms, all with panoramic views, are large, lovely, low-key and electronically sophisticated.A thermometer measures the temperature outside as well as inside; headphones are provided beside the beds, so one person can listen to music without disturbing the other. A mist-proof TV is installed at the foot of the bathtub, with a hands-free phone on a side wall.
Less well located, but insulated from the clamor of Bangkok on a six-acre site off Sathorn Road, is the Sukhothai, a masterful design by the American architect Ed Tuttle, who did some of the Aman resorts. The walls in the lobby are padded with sage green and gold silk, and three stupas stand watch in a pond outside. Colors and contours combine to create a soothing mood.
Service is superb everywhere in Bangkok. Thais have an engaging way of doing you a service and making you think you've done them one.
Forty years ago, Thai food was all but unknown outside of Thailand. Since then it has conquered the world; every city of consequence in the United States has a Thai restaurant, as do Sao Paulo and Dusseldorf. For the most part the places abroad serve at least slightly Westernized food, and that genre is well represented in Bangkok, too, at elegant places like Sala Rim Naam, across the river from the Oriental and owned by it. A lavish buffet lunch there includes rock lobster in a spicy sauce as well as kanom krok, the delicious little coconut and rice hot cakes.
But plenty of genuine Thai food is to be had, too. The Thip Samai noodle shop, a storefront stall near the Golden Mount, produces definitive versions of the familiar Thai noodle stir-fry, pad thai, free of the sweetness that often disfigures it in the West.
Pen, a lively spot with plastic tables and fierce prices, serves stunning seafood. Nobody speaks English, but the owner brought us what he considered the evening's choice items. Our favorites were deep-fried parrotfish, with mild, snowy flesh and a crust crunchy as a Grape Nut; charred giant river prawns the size of small lobsters, with delectable tomalley; and, for dessert, sticky rice and the mango of a lifetime -- huge, canary yellow, fiberless.
On a far grander level, Celadon, in a pretty pavilion standing on stilts on an island in one of the Sukhothai's ponds, offers a comprehensive menu, well explained in English. Miang kam (a riveting mixture of shallots, coconut, dried shrimp, ginger, chilies and lime, wrapped in leaves), a vegetarian curry featuring tart pea eggplants, and tiny, stir-fried soft-shell crabs served with chili sauce showed off the spectrum of Thai flavors, with ample use of souring agents like tamarind and kaffir lime leaves. The Blue Elephant, housed in a nearby colonial mansion, serves classics like pla grai curry, made with fish and turmeric, and impressive innovations like durian cheesecake, which renders the famously foul-smelling fruit subtle and digestible.
A lot has happened to Bangkok in the half-century since Rodgers and Hammerstein celebrated its charms in "The King and I." For better and for worse, it is a modern city now, but somehow its allure endures.

If you go
Attractions
Grand Palace, Na Phralan Road; (66-2) 215-0122. Open 8 a.m to 4 p.m. daily; $3.15. 
National Museum, Na Phratat Road; (66-2) 244-1333. Open 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Wednesday to Sunday; $1.
Jim Thompson's House, 6 Soi Kasemsan 2, Rama I Road; (66-2) 216-7368. Open 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. daily; $2.50.
Hotels and Restaurants
Peninsula Hotel, 333 Charoennakorn Road, Thonburi, (66-2) 861-2888, fax (66-2) 861-1112, pbk@peninsula.com, from $260.
Oriental Hotel, 48 Oriental Avenue, (66-2) 659-9000, fax (66-2) 659-0000, orbbk- reservations@mohq.com, from $300.
Sukhothai Hotel, 13/3 South Sathorn Road, (66-2) 287-0222, fax (66-2) 287-4980, info@sukhothai.com, from $280.
Prices below are for two without wine. 
Sala Rim Naam; contact the Oriental Hotel for reservations; from $40. 
Celadon; contact the Sukhothai Hotel for reservations; from $50. 
Blue Elephant, 233 South Sathorn Road, (66-2) 673-9353; from $50. 
Pen, 2068 Chan Road, (66-2) 287-2907; from $80.
Thip Samai, 313 Mahachai Road, (66-2) 221-6280; dinner only; from $10. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A long-tail boat plies the waters of one of the city's many canals.; Vendor at the Aw Taw Kaw food market, where an array of fruits and vegetables can be found, along with fish, shellfish and prepared food. Street stall near the World Trade Center selling sarongs. (Photographs by Palani Mohan for The New York Times)(pg. 8); The Celadon restaurant at the Sukhothai Hotel. The coolly elegant Peninsula, and a room at the hotel. The Chao Phraya River at sunset. (Photographs by Palani Mohan for The New York Times restaurant and cityscape , Peninsula Hotels hotel )(pg. 9) Map of Bangkok shows surrounding area. (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); SMOG (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); COUPS (68%); ARMED FORCES (68%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (64%); MARTIAL ARTS (63%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (97%) THAILAND (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) THAILAND; BANGKOK (THAILAND)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



526 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; 
Risa Lewak, Howard Brown

 BODY:
Risa Amy Lewak, a daughter of Myrna and Ben Lewak of Oceanside, N.Y., was married last evening to Howard Stuart Brown, a son of Lillian and Martin Brown of Union, N.J. Rabbi Joshua Z. Gruenberg officiated at the Woodbury Country Club in Woodbury, N.Y.
 Ms. 
Lewak, 27, is keeping her name. Until September, she worked in Long Island City, Queens, as the assistant to the executive producers of "Hope and Faith," a situation comedy on ABC. She graduated cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania. Her father teaches economics at Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan. Her mother retired as a stockbroker in Locust Valley, N.Y., for Advest, a financial services company. 
 Mr. Brown, 33, is a human resources associate in Manhattan with the North American unit of CDC IXIS, a French investment bank, where he helps manage compensation and pension plans. He graduated from Kent State and received a master's degree in industrial labor relations from Cornell. His mother is a special education teacher at the 13th Avenue School in Newark. His father is a certified public accountant in Manhattan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (86%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); HUMAN RESOURCES (72%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%)

PERSON: LEWAK, RISA AMY; BROWN, HOWARD STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



527 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: ADDED VALUE; 
A Harvest of Books by Notable Names

BYLINE:  By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
PUBLISHERS have produced a small boom this fall in the nonfiction category of "barely known books by better-known people." At least four business books on that list deserve more attention than they may otherwise get.
 One of the most delightful is "The Random Walk Guide to Investing: 10 Rules for Financial Success," by Burton G. Malkiel (W.W. Norton, $22.95). The author, of course, is the Princeton economics professor who wrote that irreverent investment classic, "A Random Walk Down Wall Street," published in 1973 and now in its eighth edition. His new book is a simple, up-to-date and extremely entertaining primer on personal finance that would make a great gift for anyone starting out in life without an Ivy League trust fund. 
 The second of these deserving books is "Downsizing in America: Reality, Causes, and Consequences," by William J. Baumol, a professor emeritus at Princeton who is now on the economics faculty at New York University; Alan S. Blinder, co-director of Princeton's Center for Economic Policy Studies; and Edward N. Wolff, an economics professor at N.Y.U. and a senior scholar at the Levy Economics Institute of Bard College. Although dense with charts and tables, the book (Russell Sage Foundation, $29.95) offers a fresh look at a phenomenon that was the middle-class nightmare a decade ago.
The two final books offer advice and insights for those who occupy the boardrooms of corporate America -- a population that, heaven knows, needs all the help it can get these days.
Paul W. MacAvoy, the former dean of the Yale School of Management, and Ira M. Millstein, a senior partner at Weil, Gotshal & Manges and a leading corporate lawyer, wrote "The Recurrent Crisis in Corporate Governance," (Palgrave Macmillan, $65). 
Not officially available until January, the book is an expert assessment of what went wrong on corporate boards and how to fix them. (Think of the hefty price this way: it would certainly buy less than seven minutes of Mr. Millstein's billable hours.)
"Back to the Drawing Board: Designing Corporate Boards for a Complex World" is by Colin B. Carter, a senior executive at the Boston Consulting Group, and Jay W. Lorsch, one of the luminaries of the Harvard Business School faculty (Harvard Business School Press, $29.95).
The authors take a dim view of Congressional efforts to "fix" what is broken in the corporate boardroom, and offer instead a practical and ethics-infused approach that manages to be both readable and credible.

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); WRITERS (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (87%); LAW PRACTICE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); ETHICS (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%) BOOKS AND MAGAZINES 

COMPANY: WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (53%); BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (53%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (53%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (51%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



528 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1605 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Fund Scandal Puts College Saving Plans on Alert

BYLINE:  By JOHN KIMELMAN

 BODY:
OVER the last few years, investors' biggest complaint about state-sponsored college savings plans was that they often generated weak returns or actually lost money in the bear market. 
 But the recent investigations into reports of improper trading practices at several mutual fund companies have given investors in these tax-sheltered plans a new cause for concern. 
 Several fund companies implicated by regulators -- including Putnam Investments, Strong Capital Management and Alliance Capital Management - are nationwide providers of these savings programs through extensive brokerage networks. And several fund portfolios that may have fallen victim to improper trading have been used in a variety of college plans, possibly affecting the returns of many savers, according to officials with several states and mutual fund companies.
Oregon recently fired Strong Capital as one manager of its college savings program after the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, said he would take action against the company's founder and chief executive, Richard S. Strong, over trading of fund shares. 
Other states are taking a slower approach, investigating trading practices and looking for ways to diversify their offerings by adding fund companies. 
"I would not plan to terminate a longstanding relationship we have with Alliance Capital in haste," said Paul J. Tavares, general treasurer of Rhode Island, who oversees his state's savings plan, CollegeBoundfund. "At the same time, I cannot ignore the seriousness of these allegations."
Many investment advisers say investors suffered little in returns, in part because most popular college portfolios include several underlying funds, not all of which were suspected of improper trading. Moreover, fund companies involved in the scandals have agreed to repay investors for any losses that resulted from improper trading. 
But this comes as little comfort to financial planners, who worry that some investors, stung by this latest incarnation of corporate scandal, will turn away from an otherwise sound way to invest for college. 
"Saving money for college is difficult enough, given that people also have to save for retirement," said Tom Davison, a partner at Summit Financial Strategies, a fee-based financial planning firm in Columbus, Ohio. "This scandal could give investors one more reason to turn off from the whole college savings process, and that's the last thing that families need to do."
Over the last two years, state-sponsored college savings programs, known as 529 plans, after a section of the tax code, have been embraced by many Americans as a sensible way to set aside money for college. The investments grow in a tax-sheltered account and withdrawals are not subject to federal taxes as long as the moneygoes for education. In addition, when investors use plans based in their home state, they may be entitled to state tax advantages that are not available for out-of-state plans. 
In the year ended Sept. 30, assets in these plans grew to $29.1 billion from $15.8 billion, according to the Financial Research Corporation, a market research firm in Boston. 
Many fund companies, including Fidelity Investments, the Vanguard Group and Franklin Templeton Investments, have formed partnerships with state governments to offer 529 plans.
Today, Alliance, through its partnership with Rhode Island, and Putnam, through its relationship with Ohio, are marketing their college savings offerings nationwide through independent financial advisers who receive commissions. Alliance and Putnam have emerged as two of the top five participants in the 529 marketplace, according to the Financial Research Corporation; Alliance had $3.7 billion in assets in the plans as of Sept. 30, and Putnam had $2.6 billion. Strong Capital, which has managed college savings plans in Wisconsin, Oregon and Nevada, has gathered about $1.2 billion in assets, the research firm said. 
Gordon Forrester, the marketing director for Putnam's plan, CollegeAdvantage, said that the plan includes two Putnam international funds - International Equity and International Capital Opportunities -- that have been implicated in the fund scandals. According to the Securities and Exchange Commission and state regulators, these funds were used for improper late trading and frequent trading. The funds, he said, have been available to college savers as a direct investment and as part of "aged based" plans. Those plans, made up of a mix of stock and bond funds, shift their asset allocation as a child grows.
Mr. Tavares of Rhode Island said the Alliance 529 plan includes the AllianceBernstein Technology fund, which is now part of an investigation by federal and state regulators into improper frequent trading. The fund was part of a blended Aggressive Growth portfolio available to 529-plan investors, he said. Alliance told him of the problem when it became aware of it through an internal investigation, he said.
MARTIN J. OLLE, program director for Edvest, Wisconsin's college plan, managed by Strong Capital, said it uses the Strong Growth fund in three blended college savings portfolios. Mr. Spitzer, the New York attorney general, has asserted that the Strong Growth fund was used by a hedge fund to engage in improper frequent trading. 
In a statement last week, Strong Capital said, "The important changes being made at Strong and those to come should give all investors, including our 529 plan clients, the confidence that they can maintain their relationships with our professionals."
Unlike the officials in Oregon, those in Ohio, Rhode Island and Wisconsin are not seeking to end their ties to the companies that run their plans -- at least for now. All three states have long-term contracts with their money managers, making it difficult to end their relationship, even if they wanted to, state officials said. 
"It's comparing apples and oranges to compare our situation with that of Oregon," said Jack C. Voight, the state treasurer of Wisconsin. Oregon, he said, had a contract that gave state officials the right to end a relationship quickly with Strong Capital, its original college savings partner. Wisconsin, he said, has a five-year contract with Strong that runs through May 2006.
"Are we going to replace Strong with another vendor or add another vendor without their consent?" Mr. Voight said. "There are some penalties that we could incur. We don't want lawsuits. We want to rectify the situation and make investors whole."
Mr. Tavares said Rhode Island had a contract with Alliance Capital that ends in 2005 that "would take a team of lawyers to break." Besides, he credits Alliance with being forthright about its activities since the scandal broke and for promising restitution to all investors. By contrast, he said, the state on Oct. 31 dropped Putnam as a manager of its state pension plan, because Putnam officials had not acknowledged its problems in a straightforward way.
These states have also developed symbiotic ties to their money management firms. While states like Rhode Island and Ohio have given companies like Alliance and Putnam a state-sponsored platform for selling their products, the companies have provided the states with benefits. Rhode Island, for example, has received $8 million over the last three years in college aid for state residents.
But some state officials and financial advisers frown on these exclusive compacts between states and money managers, saying that they deny citizens the choice of tax-advantaged, in-state options. Though all savers can go outside their home state for a 529 plan, they may forfeit in-state tax deductions if they do. 
"My message to my colleagues in other states is that if these investments aren't meeting expectations, you should have the right to change them quickly," said Randall Edwards, Oregon's treasurer. "You shouldn't be beholden to certain financial companies."
Mr. Davison, of the financial planning firm, agreed. "In Ohio, we are all captive to Putnam," he said. "As a result, Ohio residents have a more difficult decision to make than if they had a more open playing field with more in-state choices."
APPARENTLY, this lament has been heard. Some states, including Ohio, are trying to add fund companies for coming years. Jacqueline Williams, executive director of the Ohio Tuition Trust Authority, said she plans to add some conservative investment products that will be sold over the phone at low fees. "That's a different business model than Putnam's," she said, "so we will turn to another company."
In the meantime, many financial planners and college savings experts are telling anxious college savings plans that there is little need to leave a fund just because a company has been implicated in the scandal.
"My advice is not to jump quickly out of a 529 plan, because when all is said and done, the potential impact to the bottom line is probably very small and companies are offering restitution," said Joseph H. Hurley, chief executive of Savingforcollege.com, a Web site that helps consumers research the plans across the country. 
Paula H. Hogan, a principal at Hogan Financial Management, a financial planning firm in Milwaukee, also tells investors that they need not react hastily to the unfolding investigation. "I tell them that it isn't an emergency," she said.
At the same time, she and other fee-based planners are encouraging investors to look beyond their states for plans run by other states known for top performance coupled with reasonable or low expense.
"What investors will find is that the really strong, low-cost players don't need to help subsidize a state government," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Davison, a financial planner, worries about the impact of mutual fund scandals on college savings plans. (Photo by Kevin Fitzsimons for The New York Times) Chart: "College Plan Managers Under Review"At the end of the third quarter, five mutual fund companies accused of improper trading activities managed more than one-quarter of all investments in college savings plans known as 529's. Alliance Capital529-PLAN ASSETS (Third quarter, in billions): $3.68MARKET SHARE: 12.6% Putnam529-PLAN ASSETS (Third quarter, in billions): 2.62MARKET SHARE: 9.0 Strong529-PLAN ASSETS (Third quarter, in billions): 1.22MARKET SHARE: 4.2 Bank of America529-PLAN ASSETS (Third quarter, in billions): 0.18MARKET SHARE: 0.6 Bank One529-PLAN ASSETS (Third quarter, in billions): 0.16MARKET SHARE: 0.6 (Source by Financial Research Corporation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PLANS (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); SCANDALS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); FAMILY (84%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TRENDS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); BONDS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); TAX LAW (72%); CHILDREN (64%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; STOCKS AND BONDS; CHILDREN AND FAMILIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: STRONG CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%) SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE; 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (72%) OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



529 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2266 words

HEADLINE: When Free Isn't Really Free 

BYLINE:  By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
FREE.
 Is there any sweeter word? Its promise of something for nothing, and its underlying connotation of liberation, put a spring in the step and make the world seem a better place. 
 But lately, free isn't what it used to be, especially on the Internet, whose very history and technology are based on the notion that information and pretty much everything else online want to be free. Web giveaways increasingly come at a steep price, in the form of computer glitches, frustration and loss of privacy and security -- not to mention the threat of expensive lawsuits for large-scale music downloaders. 
"You often get what you pay for," said Mitch Bainwol, chairman of the Recording Industry Association of America. "In the case of what is so-called free, it comes along with challenges." 
Of course, that is what you would expect him to say. Mr. Bainwol, after all, is the chief representative of an industry that says it has suffered grievous harm from music downloading, and that is trying to quash the free-music movement with lawsuits. 
But now people from all sides of the Internet copyright debate have begun to notice that freebies often mask a multitude of possible cybersins. A report released last week by the Center for Democracy and Technology, a high-tech policy group in Washington, called for new regulations, voluntary industry measures and consumer education to combat the problem of "spyware" that often piggybacks on programs, including the software people use to download music. 
The Federal Trade Commission has not tried to prosecute any companies for distributing spyware, and courts have declared the programs legal so far. But the Center for Democracy and Technology says that more should be done to protect consumers from sneaky software. "Spyware represents a serious threat to users' control over their computers and their Internet connections," the report said. 
The definitions are fuzzy, but the programs fall under three broad categories: "adware," which serves pop-up ads and banners, including some for pornography; true "spyware, " which monitors Web wanderings for marketing purposes; and more insidious "snoopware," which can track everything users do on their computers, whether or not they are online. Some programs can even disable anti-virus software and hijack the results of Web searches. 
The list of suspect software is long. Kazaa, the most popular program for downloading free music, comes with a cluster of software, some created by a company called Brilliant Digital Entertainment. One of Brilliant's "extras," called Altnet, can even make someone's computer part of a Brilliant-owned network that harnesses a PC owner's excess computing power to distribute music. Derek Broes, a vice president at Brilliant, said that the program could be turned off by computer users and that the company's products should not be classified as spyware.
On its Web site, the company states that revenue from advertising and installed programs are part of what makes Kazaa free; you can get a version of the software without ads and other clutter, but it will set you back $29.95. Nikki Hemming, the chief executive of Sharman Networks, which owns Kazaa, said in an interview that the extra programs were not a big issue for users. "I think there is a bar not to be crossed, and we've been pretty careful to manage that," she said. With 10 million Kazaa downloads a month, "it's not a deterrent to consumers," she added.
The problem is that very few of those doing the downloading know what they are getting into. That is because most people do not bother to read the contracts that they click through when they install Kazaa -- or, for that matter, any other programs and services they download. 
"These user agreements that allow the downloading of spyware are Trojan horses," said Representative Mary Bono, Republican of California, at a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee hearing last week. "The average user has no idea that he or she is opening up their entire personal and financial life, down to the keystroke, to an unknown, often ill-intentioned, third party," said Ms. Bono, who introduced a bill last summer to restrict the use of spyware that operates without a computer owner's full knowledge or consent. 
Sharman is not the only company giving people unwanted extras. Gator, one of the first pieces of software to be described as spyware by security and privacy experts, is made by a company now known as Claria. It is automatically installed with many free programs and can track a user's Web surfing habits -- without actually identifying him or her by name -- for marketing purposes. Some versions can keep even closer track of individuals, giving each one a user ID, according to the report of the Center for Democracy and Technology. 
Computer games available free from sites like Shockwave.com often carry a program called n-Case, which inundates online shoppers with pop-up ads promoting rival offerings. On its Web site, the company that makes the software, 180Solutions, says 16 million people have downloaded its program, which it says offers advertisers "a 360-degree view of the user's behavior -- 24 hours a day, 7 days a week." 
People who turn to free services for songs, movies or software may get something else they haven't bargained for: viruses. Bruce Hughes, the director of malicious-code research at TruSecure, a computer security company, says that as much as 45 percent of the free software available on Kazaa may be infected with computer viruses. A Sharman spokesman said the company provides virus protection for downloads.
Before long, the mounting collection of adware, spyware, Trojans and viruses can turn a person's zippy computer into a sludgy, slogging mess. "When their computer gets too slow, they go off and buy another computer," Mr. Hughes said.
Free, in other words, can end up costing a bundle. "Free's got a price tag on it, that's for sure," said Ed English, the chief executive of InterMute, a company based in Braintree, Mass., that makes programs to block adware, spyware and spam. (The latest versions of Internet security packages from major antivirus companies like Network Associates, Symantec and Trend Micro can also block spyware.) 
"You're paying with your privacy," Mr. English said. "You're paying with your productivity loss. You're paying with your computer speed." 
It hasn't always been this way. Giving away samples and selling "loss leaders" cheaply enough to attract customers is a tradition practically as old as commerce itself. And industries like broadcasting have long followed the advertiser-supported business model, providing news and programming free to consumers -- or, in the case of newspapers, at relatively low cost. 
Jonathan Zittrain, who teaches Internet law at Harvard and is a director of the university's Berkman Center for Internet and Society, said that the Internet itself reinforced the idea that information should be free. That is the spirit that led to the free-software and open-source movements, in which volunteers work on software together and make it available to others, often at no cost. 
The collaborative, early stages of the online medium encouraged sharing. Vast libraries of information appeared on the Web. The dot-coms carried the idea further, using soaring stock prices and venture capital money to provide content and services to customers free or at steep discounts. The new business models blended the old advertising idea with a near-religious faith in growing fast to build customer loyalty. 
During the boom, one company, ZapMe, went so far as to install free computer labs in schools across the country in return for being able to show ads to students while they surfed. (ZapMe, which came under fire from people who oppose commercialism in schools and from privacy advocates, has since changed its name to rStar and dropped the free-computers business; it now sells high-speed Internet access to businesses and schools.)
NO wonder, then, that when the technology became available to download music and other digital media easily, tens of millions of people jumped at the chance without considering the legal implications. The nature of downloading made the copyright issues even fuzzier in the public mind. Downloading a song, Professor Zittrain noted, is not like stealing a loaf of bread. "You don't see the loaf of bread missing on the windowsill," he said. "You see the bread on the sill and one that has magically appeared in your hand."
When the dot-com bubble burst, however, the freebie model largely collapsed along with it, said Alan Davidson, the associate director of the Center for Democracy and Technology and an author of the report on spyware. 
"They were business models based on hope," he said. 
Some true freebies survived the crash. Programs that allow computer users to read the ubiquitous ".pdf" files or to listen to sound clips still cost nothing. Their makers get revenue by selling premium versions of the programs and industrial-strength versions used to produce the documents and clips. Many Web sites, from the online magazine Slate to the Internet Movie Database, still offer their content free and support themselves with advertising. The companies behind popular software like Eudora, an e-mail program, still profit by giving away copies with unobtrusive advertising built in and selling versions that do not show ads. And the open-source movement has produced gems like Linux, the free operating system. 
But the belief that advertising alone could finance more than a narrow band of companies was shattered, Mr. Davidson said. And that's when things became ugly. Companies scrambled to find ways to make up for the money they thought they were going to earn from advertising. 
Some programs in use today "went from just obnoxious advertising into the hacking area," said Richard M. Smith, a software engineer and privacy expert who has done some of the groundbreaking work that uncovered the ways of rogue programs. On a recent weekend trip to visit his daughter at Bard College, he spent much of his time fumigating her computer, which she had loaded with file-sharing software. The various programs, he said, had changed the security setting on his daughter's machine, opening the door to other unwanted programs that were downloaded automatically. 
When he tried to use the Google search service to find Spybot, an effective anti-spyware program, he discovered that one of the programs had substituted a look-alike search page that did not include a link to the program. "There seems to be this meeting of the hacker world and the advertising world," he said. "There clearly is a line crossed that I hadn't seen before."
OF course, someone is almost always making money somewhere. To download free music, for example, you need to buy a computer and pay an Internet service provider. 
"There are costs built into every step of these media systems," said Siva Vaidhyanathan, the director of communication studies in the department of culture and communication at New York University. The money just does not go to record companies and artists. "What's really at stake here is who's going to get the money and in what-sized pieces," he said.
But the problems with spyware and other rogue programs may offer the music industry a way out, one that doesn't risk alienating customers by threatening lawsuits. To avoid messing up their computers and surrendering their privacy, people may be more willing to pay for their music -- so long as it comes in a form they want and at a price they don't mind paying. 
"It's not rocket science, it's not new math, it's not 'new economy,"' said Mike McGuire, director of media research at GartnerG2, the business strategy research group of Gartner Inc. "If people want this thing, they will pay a reasonable price for it -- if it is reasonably priced and convenient, and it works when you hit 'play."' 
John Esposito, head of the music distribution arm of Time Warner, noted that plenty of consumers routinely buy movies on demand through cable systems or pay to download ring tones to their cellphones.
"Convenience of access will be the most important ingredient, and they will be willing to pay for it," he said.
The idea of small payments appeals to people on all sides of the debate. "Cheap is really the antidote to 'free with a lot of strings attached,"' Mr. Davidson said. 
Professor Zittrain agreed. "The difference between free and 5 cents can be huge" to a business, he said. 
Or 99 cents. The iTunes Music Store from Apple Computer is showing that small payment systems, which have not been very successful in the past, can work if there is a large audience for a compelling product, said Avivah Litan, an analyst at Gartner. 
Steve Jobs, the Apple chairman, has said that his company does not make much from the store, which has sold millions of songs. The real profit is in selling its wildly successful portable music player, the iPod. 
If that high-tech approach sounds like old-style marketing, like giving away razors to sell the blades, that should come as no surprise. The future can look a lot like the past, when Mr. Esposito, the Warner Music executive, could buy singles for 49 cents each at his hometown record store in Punxsutawney, Pa.
To Mr. McGuire, blending the past and the future to give music lovers what they want might provide the best hope for the music industry, helping it move beyond the lingering idea of music as a physical object to be sold. 
"What we're talking about is the 20th-century record business versus the 21st-century music industry," he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 30, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about spyware, software that allows pop-up ads or monitors computer users' activities, referred incorrectly to Shockwave.com, which offers games and other software online. The AtomShockwave Corporation, which owns the site, says it does not have contracts with spyware makers and does not include such technology with software available on its site. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Siva Vaidhyanathan, a professor at New York University, says there are costs built into every step of media systems on the Internet. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. 9); (Photo by The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); SPYWARE (89%); MALICIOUS SOFTWARE (77%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); INTERNET AUDIO (77%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (77%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (76%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (75%); SOFTWARE DEFECTS (75%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (75%); LITIGATION (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); PORNOGRAPHY (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (70%); CONSUMER LAW (70%); TRENDS (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (64%); ANTIVIRUS SOFTWARE (50%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; PRIVACY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: BRILLIANT DIGITAL ENTERTAINMENT INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: RECORDING INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%); CENTER FOR DEMOCRACY & TECHNOLOGY (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



530 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: MIDSTREAM; 
When College Savings Don't Go the Distance

BYLINE:  By JAMES SCHEMBARI; James Schembari is an editor at The Times. His column on the prime earning, spending and striving years appears the fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail: jimschem@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
I'VE been pretty smug over the years about letting everyone know that I've saved enough money to send my oldest child to almost any college she wants. But I'm less cocky about her three younger brothers, and less certain that there will be anything left for retirement. I keep telling my wife, Christine, that when we are older, we will probably end up living off the equity in our home.
 College costs can be huge, of course, and not everyone has the financial ability to save enough to get a child through school, even with the help of scholarships and loans. Financial planners and college administrators say they are seeing more parentspay all or some of the cost from their paychecks, just as they would any other bill. And naturally, the size of the paycheck has a direct relationship to the type of college they can afford to choose. 
 "Even if parents are making $200,000 a year, it doesn't mean that they have the $35,000 to send their kid to a private college," said Sandy Baum, an economics professor at Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., and a consultant to the College Board. Regardless of income level, "lots of people send their kids to less expensive colleges because they didn't save."
Diana McGaugh, 45, an office manager from Conroe, Tex., said she had never been able to save much for the education of her daughter, Amber, 21. So Amber is attending a community college, and Ms. McGaugh and her husband, Reggy, 50, a computer programmer, are paying for it mostly from their paychecks.
"You think you have time to save and before you know it, college is here," Ms. McGaugh said. "It always seemed that something came up. We didn't have the little extra to set aside."
A 56-year-old California woman, who asked that her name not be used, said she and her husband, an aerospace engineer, had put money aside for their retirement, but not for the education of their two children. They assumed that his paycheck and the money they would make from a property sale would be enough.
But when their children were accepted to a private university, the parents didn't want to say they couldn't go. So the woman took a job, first at a department store and later as a personal assistant, after being out of the work force for 16 years. The children went to the same university; one is a senior and the other graduated in 2001.
"My husband felt a tremendous burden to pay for college and needed someone else to carry the load," she said. "I wanted to do as much as I could for my kids. I said, 'O.K., we'll make it happen."'
As Ms. McGaugh said, "You don't think of it as a hardship when you're doing something for your child."
Dean A. Harman, a financial planner in Houston, says that parents with more than one child can really have a problem if not enough has been saved. Their paychecks may not be enough to make up the difference between financial aid and their costs. So he urges them to cut back in other areas.
"No vacation. Don't eat out. Cut back on living expenses. Cut clothing bills," he said. "They'll pretty much cut what they can."
Moving into a smaller house, he said, can reduce expenses. There is also the option of taking out a home equity loan. The loans are usually tax deductible, but the home is at risk if parents default.
Of course, the children can help. Ann-Marja Lander of Lander Advisory, a financial planning firm in Long Beach, Calif., says they can work hard to get good grades and maybe land a scholarship. Or they can get a part-time job.
"The child needs to buy into the idea of understanding the sacrifices that the parents are going to make," she said.
MANY colleges offer payment plans that spread the costs over the school year. Plans offered by George Washington University can run 10 months; the first payment is due in the spring or summer before the start of school and the final payment is due around February. There is no interest charge. 
Daniel E. Small, director of student financial assistance at the university, said that about 20 percent of its students used payment plans, most of them in conjunction with savings and financial aid.
"It is a way for parents who haven't had the opportunity to save the money, but can budget to pay this way," he said.
Randy and Judy Mears, both 45, who live in a suburb of Houston, use payment plans at the state colleges their two sons attend in Texas. The money comes directly from their paychecks. 
They pay that way not because they have to, but because they can. He is a compensation manager, and she is a consultant. They make enough money to pay the college bills without having to drain their savings, which are meant for their retirement.
"We always assumed that we would be able to pay as we went," Mr. Mears said. "It sounds naive, but it worked out that way."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Sean Kelly) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); FAMILY (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); TRENDS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); LABOR FORCE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (64%); RETAILERS (60%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; CHILDREN AND FAMILIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PERSONAL FINANCE 

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



531 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: ON THE JOB; 
Foiling the Office Bully (With Sand in Your Face)

BYLINE:  By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER

 BODY:
The topic of workplace bullying clearly exposed a raw nerve, bringing mail with many accounts. Some had a touch of humor, but many were despairing, filled with recollections of bullies who lied to their superiors when challenged, companies that turned their backs on the problem and victims reduced to nightmarish lives.
 "Bullies?" asks A.C. Willment, an editor for a publisher of legal treatises in Manhattan. "In a quarter-century in the work force, in both nonprofit and profit and both large and small organizations, I've assembled quite a menagerie." 
 But at the top of her list is the passive-aggressive bully, a type she likens to Herman Melville's main character in "Bartleby the Scrivener." Ms. Willment notes that literary critics do not usually describe Bartleby as a bully, but she says she thinks they might want to reconsider. 
"He exercises his power by establishing your impotence; malice sets him apart from the standard procrastinator. A Bartleby -- often but not always a superior -- can torpedo your projects, blow your deadlines, make you look incompetent and waste massive amounts of your time.
"I tangled with a Bartleby who was responsible for generating a particular document for me. Days turned into weeks, deadlines drew nigh and I couldn't get it out of him with the 'jaws of life.' I couldn't even get a good excuse.
"My supervisor (roughly Bartleby's equal in the pecking order) came by my desk, and I confessed I was stymied. She smiled, picked up my phone and buzzed Bartleby. Our phones had a display feature similar to caller ID.
"Bartleby answered the phone with a weary 'Oh-Gawd-it's-you-again' drawl. My supervisor identified herself as calling from my phone and inquired about the document, which got drafted and delivered with a speed that implied the question, 'Why wasn't this possible two weeks ago?"'
"The most outrageous example of workplace bullying occurred at a company I was asked to consult to," writes Joseph R. Weintraub, a professor of management and organizational behavior at Babson College in Wellesley, Mass. At the company, he encountered a senior executive who liked to talk about "cracking the whip if people were not performing to his satisfaction."
The executive, Dr. Weintraub notes, was not just talking.
"To play out his threat, he had a real cowboy bullwhip on his wall, which he would use from time to time and actually crack it in the hall outside his office to show his ire," Dr. Weintraub writes.
"Employees expressed their apprehension about even coming to work while this person was on the loose and were fearful about reporting him since he had recently been hired in a key managerial position.
"His whipping days, however, came to an abrupt halt when he accidentally hit a senior executive as she was walking to her office." 
He was fired.
"It is time to expose workplace bullying for what it really is -- a form of harassment that should not be tolerated in any work environment," writes Julie Juliano Acerra of Long Branch, N.J.
"As both a victim and a witness, I was so tired and depressed hearing complaints from other employees and experiencing the behavior myself, I felt that because of my position (the personnel officer), I had to be the one to go on the record," Ms. Acerra writes. "I did extensive research and learned that the reason this type of behavior is allowed is because it is not illegal, under present standards.
"I asked for and received a revised, written harassment policy with the idea that maybe the bullies would get the hint and retreat, but that was to no avail. The policy was carefully worded to address sexual harassment only, and I was not at all surprised.
"I attended a seminar hosted by my state's Civil Rights Commission and asked a simple question: 'Isn't everyday harassment in the workplace illegal?' Four lawyers and two moderators were stumped.
"Their answer was: not unless you are in a protected class; in other words, the harassment had to be proven to relate specifically to gender, age, ethnicity, etc. This legal loophole in the law is the size of the Grand Canyon."
In the end, Ms. Acerra says, after five years of "enduring threats, foul language, ridicule and unfounded criticism," she received help from her union. She turned over her documentation in the form of a journal, as well as letters and memos from former employees. "An investigation ensued, others came forward and finally the bullies backed off. Suddenly I had a life again and did not dread going to work on Monday morning."
Emphasizing the importance of documentation in building a case, Ms. Acerra writes: "I wrote on scraps of paper, Post-its and in binders, relaying as much information as I could about being threatened and/or verbally attacked. I wrote down dates, time of day and who was in the room at the time."
Her final words: "Bullies are not really all that smart. They are self-involved and self-important to their own peril. In they end, they expose themselves."
Arnold Lippin of Brooklyn was working for a small biopharmaceutical company when a new chief executive was brought in to prepare it for its transition from nonprofit status to that of a publicly held corporation. 
The tone was set with the first meeting, which, he says, "began with a vicious harangue that alluded to our having a nonprofit mentality and stating that we had better start toeing the line of the for-profit world or we would not make it."
Mr. Lippin, not about to be bullied by someone who had arrived with a clear reluctance to accept the staff, immediately pointed out the competence of his colleagues. Matters were not about to improve, and Mr. Lippin was not about to defer to the new boss's tyranny.
"When he arbitrarily changed all the office furniture to blue, I stopped the guys from taking my favorite peach chair," he writes. "I was told with a sense of anxiety that the 'boss' had said to do it.
"I told them if they were confronted to say I wanted to be spoken to directly. I never heard from him on this or any other issue." Mr. Lippin encouraged his colleagues to use tit for tat in their dealings with the bully, taking the position that if he cooperated, they would cooperate; if he confronted, they would confront -- but to start with cooperation.
In the end, Mr. Lippin's job was not cut any earlier than anyone else's.
"With hindsight, I realize I did not acknowledge his authority simply as a result of his position, and he knew it," Mr. Lippin writes. "He also knew that I would not interact with him solely within the system that protected him. Rather than engage me in a productive manner that would earn my trust and loyalty, he avoided me because he could not bully me." 
Gregory Alford has a few words about bullies who are their own ultimate victims. 
"When I was a journalist working at daily newspapers, I served under several editors who desperately needed anger management training," writes Mr. Alford, now a communications manager at OSF St. Anthony Medical Center in Rockford, Ill. 
"The worst of the lot," he said, was the managing editor of a daily newspaper published in the afternoon, which meant that most of the deadlines were before 9 a.m. Unfortunately for Mr. Alford and his colleagues, the editor in question was not a morning person.
"Working in a large open room with the entire editorial staff (20 or so at any given time), he seemed to enjoy having an audience for his frequent temper tantrums," he said. "If someone called him on the phone while he was laying out or proofing a page, he slammed the phone with contempt after the conversation ended. He often slammed the receiver onto the body of the phone several times, just for emphasis.
"Once, he slammed the receiver down so hard that he shattered the base of the phone. He thought it was hilarious and immediately hung the phone on the wall of the newsroom to remind all of us of his power and contempt of interruptions. An additional sign of his masculinity was a metal garbage can with a large dent caused by his foot, which he proudly displayed at his newsroom desk.
That wasn't all, Mr. Alford said. . "If you began looking for another job while still at that paper, you had to tell him or you would be fired. Of course, when anyone told him they were looking for work in a less psychotic environment, he would pout and either stop talking to that person or begin a demeaning vocal campaign to speed their departure."

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Stuart Goldenberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BULLYING (90%); WORKPLACE VIOLENCE (89%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (73%); LITERATURE (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); TRENDS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); LITERARY CRITICISM (54%) SEXUAL HARASSMENT; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



532 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; 
Don't Be Lulled: Interest Rates Could Be Poised to Leap

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
WHEN thinking of interest rates, think of a coiled spring. That tells you how quickly Treasury yields could rise, driving down prices across the fixed-income market.
 Rates have risen well above the 45-year lows they reached in June, when the Treasury's 10-year note was at 3.11 percent. But they haven't gone up as much as might be expected. Now at 4.16 percent, the yield is well below the 2003 high of 4.60 percent, reached on Sept. 2. Some forecasters had predicted that the yield would reach 5 percent when the economy got back on track. 
 Well, the economy is expanding rapidly. It grew at a 7.2 percent annual rate in the third quarter and is forecast to move ahead at a pace of 4 to 5 percent this quarter. 
Rising expectations of inflation should also be pushing rates higher. Since the end of August, the expected inflation rate derived from the Treasury's 10-year inflation-protected security has climbed to 2.25 percent, from 1.98 percent.
Why have interest-rate increases been slow? One reason is the current "deal of the day" in the Treasury market. But because traders' inclinations can change suddenly -- and the economic forces for higher rates are already in place -- the rate spring is coiled tightly.
The deal of the day is called a carry trade. It is simple. Institutional investors, like banks, borrow money for the short term at a very low interest rate and use the cash to buy a longer-term security paying a higher interest rate. Then they pocket the difference.
For example, banks can borrow at the federal funds rate, about 1 percent, and use the money to buy two-year Treasury notes, which yield 1.82 percent, or three-year notes, which yield 2.35 percent. 
In normal circumstances, this would be a risky strategy, because a sudden upturn in short-term interest rates could quickly produce a loss. But Federal Reserve policy makers have reduced the risk by promising to keep their target for the federal funds rate at 1 percent for some time.
The fact that shorter-term rates have been held back -- the 1.85 percent yield on the two-year note is below its September high of 2.04 percent -- has also helped restrain the rise in the Treasury's 10-year note, analysts said.
"Short-term rates act as an anchor for longer-term rates," said Ward McCarthy, a managing director at Stone & McCarthy Research in Princeton, N.J. Rates had been rising, he said, "until we got reassurances from Fed officials that they would not pull the trigger quickly" on a rate increase.
Futures contracts on the federal funds rate now show that many investors don't expect a Fed rate increase until early May, and some forecasters say the Fed will hold fire even longer.
George Strickland of Thornburg Investment Management, which manages about $3.6 billion in fixed-income assets, argues that a ladder strategy -- holding bonds in a carefully planned series of maturities -- is a good defense against a spring back in interest rates.
Generally, Thornburg's portfolios are divided equally into maturities from 1 to 10 years. Those of relatively short terms suffer less of a price loss as rates climb. And after the first year, if rates have leveled off, one-tenth of the portfolio turns back into cash that can be reinvested at higher rates.
THIS is a conservative approach, and it can be a loser in the first year if rates are rising, but it can result in a moderate positive return if rates then level off. Mr. Strickland is being even more cautious in the $1.4 billion Limited Term Municipal Fund National Portfolio which he runs, by shortening his ladder to about eight years. The fund's total return, year to date through Thursday, is 2.99 percent, about three-quarters of a percentage point better than his competitors, according to Morningstar. 
"The coils are compressed," he said, referring to interest rates. "So it's a good time to be cautious."

GRAPHIC: Graph: Surprisingly Tame"Interest rates are higher than they were in the spring, but have leveled off recently, despite a surge in economic growth. Graph tracks the yield on 10-year treasuries since Jan. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); INFLATION (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TRENDS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); FUTURES (74%) CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PERSONAL FINANCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



533 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
Balance aCheckbook? How 20th Century!

BYLINE:  By HUBERT B. HERRING

 BODY:
A minibyte of silence, please, for all the skills left in the digital dust by technology's fierce march forward: Wielding a buggy whip. Driving a stick shift. 
Writing a letter (you know, the kind in an envelope).
 Will balancing a checkbook -- a pesky irrelevance to some, a sacred duty to others -- be joining that list soon? A firm called eMarketer, which tallies e-business statistics, reports that the number of American households that do their banking online has more than doubled in just three years, to 27.8 million. It projects that the number will hit 36.3 million by 2005. 
 Why do people want to bank online? To gain better control of their finances, 52 percent say. But remember: a computer screen can be just as messy as a pile of buggy whips. HUBERT B. HERRING

GRAPHIC: Chart: U.S. HOUSEHOLDS BANKING ONLINEGraph tracks the number of U.S. households banking online since 2000 with projections into 2005. WHY PEOPLE BANK ONLINEPercentage of respondents to 2002 survey Convenience: 79%Saves time: 71Better control of finances: 52Privacy: 41More information available: 36 RETAIL SALESGraph tracks the year-over-year change, weekly, of retail sales against the redbook average since May. NEW MORTGAGE APPLICATIONSGraph tracks the year-over-year change, weekly, of new mortgage applications since May. ENERGY PRICESGraph tracks the change in consumer price index since Nov. 2002. PERSONAL BANKRUPTCY FILINGSGraph tracks the number of personal bankruptcy filings (totals in thousands), weekly, since May. ONLINE SALESGraph tracks the total amount of online sales (dollars in billions), weekly, since May. HOTEL OCCUPANCY RATESGraph tracks the four-week moving average, daily, for the following cities: NEW YORKCHICAGOLOS ANGELES (Sources by eMarketer households banking online ; Pew Internet & American Life Project 2002 online banking survey ; Redbook Research retail sales ; Economy.com mortgage applications ; Bureau of Labor Statistics energy prices ; Lundquist Consulting bankruptcies ; comScore Networks online sales ; Smith Travel Research hotel occupancy )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC BANKING (90%); INTERNET BANKING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); RESORTS (86%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (69%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (69%); RETAILERS (59%) BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; HOUSING; ENERGY AND POWER; BANKRUPTCIES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; HOTELS AND RESORTS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



534 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 136 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY; 
The Unnamed Resume

BYLINE:  By Vivian Marino

 BODY:
In the tight employment market, each online job posting can often elicit a flood of electronic resumes. Some come from people who are well qualified for the advertised position, but many resumes may be lacking one important detail: the name of the job seeker in the document file name. 
 ResumeDoctor.com, a resume consulting service, said it recently studied more than 10,000 resumes from a diverse set of industries. It found that nearly 55 percent of the document file names did not contain the job seeker's name. About 24 percent were named some minor variation of "Resume.doc." 
 Brad Fredericks, a spokesman for ResumeDoctor.com, of South Burlington, Vt., says job recruiters compare the sorting of all those unnamed resumes to "looking in a cupboard full of soup cans with their labels torn off." Vivian Marino

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (88%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (51%) VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



535 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: To the Rebuilt Station 

BYLINE:  By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: LOWER MANHATTAN 

 BODY:
IT was all eerily familiar, but different too, this PATH station for New Jersey commuters. Where there had been a solid wall of tiles separating the station from a parking garage, there was now a wall of thick glass, providing a view of a sunlit chasm at the base of what once was the World Trade Center. The stairways and escalators were justas steep as they rose to the street. The stairs even wound past a newsstand rising in the same place where the old one once stood. But the station felt a lot less hermetic than before, largely because of the light streaming into this new underground space through that wall of glass.
 Those were among the cross-grained images gained in a tour last week of the rebuilt PATH station that is to open today, connecting Lower Manhattan to New Jersey by rail for the first time in more than two years. With its opening by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, it will restore direct PATH service to New York City's financial hub for an estimated 60,000 commuters who daily rumbled into and out of the station below the trade center before the Sept. 11, 2001, attack that brought the twin towers crashing down. 
 On the tour last week, Governor McGreevey shook his head in amazement at what had been accomplished in the $550 million rebuilding effort in just 16 months.
 "It represents a tremendous psychological boost," he said, noting that the reopening of the station would restore a link between New Jersey and New York that had helped sustain both states economically. "And this process of rebuilding has been part of the grieving process for what happened here."
 Adding to the eeriness of it all, the rebuilt station occupies the same footprint as the former station. The tracks for the PATH trains come in the same way, and the rebuilt platforms are atop the same imprint as the old ones. Louis Menno, chief engineer for PATH, said that some of the same support columns were being reused after being reinforced. The authority even decided to keep the station name, World Trade Center.
 Mr. Menno and Governor McGreevey said that the decision to keep the name was tied up in the symbols of rebirth and mourning that all those involved with the rebuilding of the trade center site have been juggling.
 The governor conceded that the station was a place forever changed even amid all the self-conscious efforts to make it seem almost the same.
 Port Authority officials said that the PATH line had lost one-third of its riders into Manhattan since trains were rerouted to 34th Street after the Sept. 11 attacks. Mr. Menno said the agency had calculated that New Jerseyans who used the line have had to spend as much as $100 more a month each for alternative transportation like cars, buses, ferries and New Jersey Transit trains into Pennsylvania Station. The lure of the cheaper, more direct commute is expected to bring many of those riders back, he said.
 But Anthony Coscia, chairman of the Port Authority, said the agency did not expect a return to the line's previous ridership levels for some time. This was reflected in the decision to construct the new station's track area to accommodate 8-car trains rather than the 10-car trains that were used before the attack.
 Both Mr. Menno and Governor McGreevey sidestepped questions about whether some commuters would find a return to the station too emotional and too tied to the trauma of the days of the terrorist attack. The governor said that many of the workers who were part of the rebuilding had found the process to be a "catharsis," and he suggested that those commuters returning to the station might experience the same kind of relief of anxieties and the quieting of disturbing memories.
 "This is a testimony that we are rebuilding," Governor McGreevey said.
 While the access to the old World Trade Center station was crowned with a retail concourse and the towers themselves, the rebuilt station empties commuters out to the corner of Church Street and Vesey Street under a steel and glass canopy that is capped with the station's name.
 Plans call for extending the station's underground promenade several blocks east to Fulton Street and a new transportation hub that is expected for the first time to allow PATH riders to connect easily with a number of East Side subway lines.
 So, the station will change yet again by the time those elements are in place, by 2006. 
 In the meantime, Mr. Menno said, wall art in the rebuilt station that depicts the outlines of the Lower Manhattan skyline with the twin towers and grainy, aerial photographs of the area was put there "because we wanted people to have a sense of where they were."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The rebuilt PATH station in Lower Manhattan is scheduled to reopen today with an inaugural ride by Governor McGreevey and Gov. George E. Pataki of New York. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); PORT AUTHORITIES (72%); TERRORISM (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



536 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 5; Travel Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER; 
Sorting Out Star Systems

BYLINE:  By SUSAN STELLIN; SUSAN STELLIN writes regularly for the Travel section.

 BODY:
IF you pick up a copy of Mobil's 2004 guide to the best hotels and restaurants in America, you'll find just three five-star hotels listed in New York City.
 Mobil's main competitor in the expanding world of hospitality ratings, the Automobile Association of America, is almost as discriminating: AAA gave its highest award -- five diamonds -- to just five New York City hotels when the company announced its 2004 winners last week. 
 Tough critics, those old-timers, who have been rating American hotels for decades (Mobil since 1958, AAA since 1977). Because as more and more companies get into the business of rating room service, bath towels and bed linens, the stars -- and diamonds and even smiley faces -- have been proliferating like crazy.
 Most of the leading travel Web sites now offer their own ratings for hotels, adding a whole new set of rankings to the cacophony of opinions offered by guidebook publishers, industry associations and travel magazines. And just as the number of rating systems has multiplied, so too have the awards at the upper end of the spectrum, suggesting that a creeping wave of grade inflation may be washing away the boundaries of exclusivity. 
 In a recent search for hotels at Expedia, for instance, the online travel service displayed a whopping 16 five-star properties in New York City. Orbitz wasn't far behind, listing 13 five-star hotels in Manhattan. (Fans of the other boroughs will have to settle for lower thread counts and less attentive service: the city's highest-rated hotels are generally between Central Park and Wall Street.)

The Room Service Test
 So how can travelers be sure what's described by some sources as a five-star hotel will really deliver a five-star experience -- and what exactly do these distinctions mean?
 "The bottom line is one person's five-star hotel is another person's four-star hotel," said Vivian Deuschl, vice president for public relations at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, whose Central Park South hotel got a high five from both Mobil and AAA this year. With so many rankings out there, Ms. Deuschl said: 
 "It's not easy for the guest to understand what each of them means. But I think within the hotel industry, probably the gold standard in terms of what we aspire to are the Mobil and the AAA highest ratings."
 Shane O'Flaherty, who oversees Mobil's ratings program, said the company had a two-step process to determine a hotel's rank: first, one of Mobil's 50 inspectors evaluates the establishment on various criteria, like whether room service is available around the clock or if the hotel has a pool.
 "Then we move to the incognito service evaluation," he said, which apparently does not mean demanding extraordinary treatment. 
 "We're not really out to trick anyone," Mr. O'Flaherty said. "We're just doing the standard things guests do. Like asking, 'Can you tell me a nice Italian restaurant in the city?"' 
 In this example, he said, three-star service is being given a couple names, while four-star service includes directions and an offer to make a reservation. The five-star treatment? Reservations, written confirmation and calling a car service to take you there.
 Other factors inspectors look at include things like how they're treated when making the reservation, how long the check-in process takes and how quickly their luggage is delivered to the room. It's a job that Mr. O'Flaherty said "gets to be grueling."
 "When you order room service, for example," he said, "you have to order everything from the salad to the dinner to the dessert -- to make sure your ice cream is still standing when you're done with your dinner." 
 Grueling, indeed. Pass the spoon.
 AAA follows a similar process: an unannounced inspection followed by a service evaluation for the candidates for the four- and five-diamond tiers. Both AAA and Mobil do more rigorous evaluations of properties at the upper end of the spectrum; accommodations at the lower end are rated more on cleanliness and amenities.
 According to Michael Petrone, AAA's director of tourism information development, the company has 65 full-time tourism editors who each evaluate at least 650 hotels a year. "We see more properties than anyone else," Mr. Petrone said. 
 As for the proliferation of other arbiters of hospitality, he did not seem to have a high opinion of the competition.
 "If you're asking, do I think any of the others are reliable, the answer is no," he said. "It goes back to who you trust."
 At least one online travel agency has decided its customers trust outside reviews more than its own: Travelocity began publishing AAA's diamond ratings with its hotel listings last spring (though for hotels AAA hasn't rated, Travelocity uses its own stars, which are clearly distinguished from AAA's diamond ratings).
 "Whether it's a well-founded assumption or not, we definitely found a certain level of skepticism with customers as to where the reviews were coming from," said Josh Feuerstein, vice president of hotels for Travelocity. "We wanted to address that by having an independent source."
 Travelocity also lets customers post their own hotel reviews and ratings, on a scale of 1 to 5 smiley faces. (Tripadvisor.com is another source for customer reviews of hotels.) 

Who Are These People?
 Though often amusing to read, such feedback can leave you wondering if the writers all stayed at the same hotel. For instance, the first customer review I found at Tripadvisor recently for what it describes as "the most popular hotel in New York City" (the Benjamin, according to the site's formula for popularity) was titled, "Disappointing" -- and rated two out of five circles. The second review: "Outstanding!" (five circles). 
 Another problem is that many of the reviews are anonymous, raising questions about the sources. 
 The Zagat Survey company, best known for collecting customer feedback for its popular restaurant guides, uses the same system to publish guidebooks rating American and international hotels. Zagat's system rates each hotel's room quality, service, dining and public facilities with a score of 0 to 30 -- but unlike most customer reviews posted online, the Zagat ratings are based on analysis of all the responses.
 On at least one site, hotels themselves have been involved in determining their own ratings. 
 Until this year, Hotels.com "worked with hotels to determine their rating," said Bob Diener, the company's president. "But we changed to our own independent rating system." 
 Like other online travel agencies, Hotels.com posts descriptions of its rating system on its Web site, mostly describing what types of amenities can be expected in each category.
 In interviews, representatives from Hotels.com, Priceline, Expedia, Orbitz and Travelocity said they not only took into account Mobil and AAA ratings when coming up with their rankings but also did their own inspections (at least in major cities) and considered customer feedback.
 But for the most part, these ratings systems rely on lists of amenities hotels must have to qualify for a certain ranking, a practice some foreign governments, particularly in Europe, use to assign star ratings to hotels. For more subjective ratings of hotels in Europe, the Michelin Guides are the gold standard.
 In fact, for travelers skeptical about ratings given by companies that have a financial relationship with the hotels -- even AAA and Mobil sell properties the right to promote their logos -- guidebooks often offer their own rating systems for hotels.
 "We're not in the business of selling anything," said Michael Spring, publisher of Frommer's travel guides, which rate hotels from one to three stars. Frommer's adopted its rating system about two years ago, Mr. Spring said, mostly to provide readers with a visual shorthand to compare hotels.
 "I think people are desperate for somebody to play favorites -- to weed through all the information and help them make an informed decision," he said. "That's what the star system is all about."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 14, 2003

 CORRECTION:
The Practical Traveler column on Nov. 23, about hotel rating systems, misstated the operation of the Mobil Travel Guide. It does not sell hotels the right to promote its rankings; they may do so at no charge.



GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Wiliam Waitzman) Chart: "The Most Sparkle In New York, 2004" MOBIL TRAVEL GUIDE'S FIVE-STAR HOTELS Four Seasons Hotel New YorkThe Ritz-Carlton New York, Central ParkThe St. Regis AAA FIVE-DIAMOND LODGINGS Four Seasons Hotel New YorkThe Peninsula New YorkThe Ritz-Carlton New York, Battery ParkThe Ritz-Carlton New York, Central ParkThe St. Regis

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FULL SERVICE HOTELS (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); LODGING (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); BOOK PUBLISHING (52%); GUIDEBOOK PUBLISHING (52%) HOTELS AND MOTELS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: RITZ CARLTON HOTEL CO LLC (84%); ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (54%)

TICKER: OWW (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (84%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (84%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (54%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (54%)

PERSON: STELLIN, SUSAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



537 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey; 
Demand Continues to Be Strong for Retail Properties

BYLINE:  By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
LAST year, as interest rates dropped toward record lows and the office market went limp, New Jersey real estate investors pursued retailing properties with intense interest. Now, with the end of 2003 near, that zeal has shown no sign of abating.
 Jeff Dunne, a vice chairman of CB Richard Ellis, said more than half the total sales volume of retail property his company brokered in the Northeast over the last 16 months involved New Jersey properties. "Retail is the driving force behind the increase in commercial real estate investment," Mr. Dunne said. 
 Jonathan Schultz, president and chief executive of Schultz Organization/TCN Worldwide, called New Jersey's retail property its "fair-haired asset," adding that "an almost astounding amount of investment capital," coming from all sorts of sources, continues to chase it. Mr. Schultz said all types of retail properties are appealing to investors, including shopping malls, strip centers and so-called power centers, which feature several brand-name stores. 
Cushman & Wakefield's Andrew J. Merin, whose 10-member team, the Metropolitan Financial Services Group, brokered $1.2 billion of retail real estate sales last year -- more than twice its usual annual total -- said, "2003 looks like another record year."
By year's end, Mr. Merin said, the group will have closed on the sales of 11 shopping centers -- all but one in New Jersey -- and it is handling three others in the state that will close early next year. Mr. Merin, an executive vice president with Cushman, helped found Metropolitan six years ago to advise owners, developers, corporations, banks and other investors on acquisitions, sales and financing. The team is headquartered in East Rutherford and operates in Fairfield County, Long Island and Westchester County in addition to New Jersey.
Earlier this year, the Cushman team brokered the sale of the Starwood Heller portfolio of six shopping centers in New Jersey for $131.4 million and received more than 30 bids, Mr. Merin said. Within a few weeks, it will close on the sales of the 190,000-square-foot Promenade in Edgewater and the 190,000-square-foot Linden Shopping Center in Linden, he said.
CB Richard Ellis brokered the sale of four shopping centers this year, including Quakerbridge Mall in Lawrenceville, which sold for $100 million, and Monmouth Mall in Eatontown, which went for $164.7 million. It also handled the sale of Riverside Square in Hackensack, at a price of $86.5 million, and Aviation Plaza in Linden, which sold for $54.5 million.
Because New Jersey is so built up, especially in the northern part of the state, and new sites for retail developments are so limited, existing shopping centers are expected to increase in value continually, market specialists say. "Retail is still the darling of buyer interest," Mr. Merin said.
MEANWHILE, property owners are in the mood to sell. "Partly as a reaction to investor appetite, we seem to see more and more retail hitting the market," he said. "We actually have a lot of clients looking at their 'net lease' properties -- those that have terms left on tenants' leases -- to see if it's a good time to sell.
"It's a flight to safety. Because it's possible to take a nice profit now, a lot of people don't want to take the risk of waiting." Mr. Merin said that owners are evaluating even properties that they only recently acquired.
Jeffrey Dash, vice president for leasing and marketing of the Lightstone Group, described the New Jersey market as "running rampant -- far exceeding investors' expectations on return."
Focusing on acquiring retail properties that have long-term leases, Mr. Dash said, Lightstone has been getting "fantastic value, and superb return -- 10 percent plus" and is closing on several properties each week, many of them in New Jersey.
Several months ago, Lightstone acquired the late Saul Cantor's $20 million retail portfolio. including three shopping centers -- all fully leased -- with 84 tenants. The acquired centers were Millburn Mall in Vauxhall, anchored by a Drug Fair; Browntown Shopping Center in Old Bridge, which also has Drug Fair as a lead tenant, along with New York Sports Club; and Newbridge Shopping Plaza in Bergenfield, anchored by a Rite Aid drugstore. 
Lightstone, based in Lakewood, owns and manages an 8.7-million-square-foot portfolio that -- until recently -- mainly comprised nonretail properties. Lightstone owns 15,000 apartments and office and industrial properties in 16 states and Puerto Rico.
The Gale Company of Florham Park recently purchased retail property at Princeton Forrestal Village in Princeton. But Gale will go a bit against the tide, said its president and chief investment officer, Mark Yeager, by converting some store space to offices. 
In a partnership with GE Partners, a unit of General Electric, Gale acquired the 500,000-square-foot mixed-use commercial center last summer. Gale had been involved for more than a decade in managing the property, which is off Route 1, behind a 294-room Westin hotel and conference center.
Now, Gale is "repositioning" 100,000 of the 175,000 existing square feet of retail space and has begun to market it for use as medical, professional, health and fitness, education and personal service businesses -- in general, the type of businesses that might draw repeated visits to the shops that remain. The retail "core identity" of Princeton Forrestal Village will not be abandoned, Mr. Yeager said.
The Village was built in 1987 on land owned by Princeton University, in accordance with the city planners' dictates for bringing life to the area near its boundary with the town of Plainsboro. The Village was designed as a center for high-end specialty boutiques -- featuring its own Main Street with gaslight streetlights and cobblestone walkways, a courtyard, fountain and landscaped grounds. It includes a two-story food court with both indoor and outdoor seating and a child-care center.
"But from the outset," Mr. Yeager said, "the upscale mall was the wrong concept, the wrong design, in the wrong place. Plus, it opened at a bad time -- the beginning of a recession."
Mr. Yeager added, "Princeton Forrestal's site is kind of isolated, back behind the hotel on the infamous Route 1" -- a notoriously congested road. He added that "the project got a bad reputation early on, and the stigma stayed with it for quite some time."
IN 1991, the Bank of New York foreclosed on the project and brought in Gale as the managing and leasing agent. Gale subsequently converted the retail part of the Village to an outlet shopping center, which has been more successful, Mr. Yeager said. In 1997, Gale orchestrated the bank's sale of the property -- subdividing it and selling the hotel to Starwood Heller. Praedium, an investment fund associated with Credit Suisse First Boston, bought the rest of the property and Gale continued to manage it.
Gale decided to begin bolstering the office sector at that point, Mr. Yeager said, and it built a new 75,000-square-foot building, which was quickly leased.
When Praedium moved to sell the property this year, Gale stepped up to buy it, declaring itself ready and willing to work with Princeton city and university officials to maintain retailing at the site, despite its spotty history, Mr. Yeager said. And many retail tenants -- which include Bass Shoe, Famous Footwear, Nine West, Izod, Van Heusen, Dansk, OshKosh B'Gosh, Carter's children's wear, Dress Barn, Casual Corner, Ben & Jerry's and Subway -- said they want to stay, too. "A number of them have requested lease extensions," said the Gale president.
"This is New Jersey," he added. "We have the high population density that makes retail thrive. The challenge with this particular property is to draw people in, and we believe we now have the right plan to do that."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 14, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in New Jersey copies on Nov. 23 about demand for retail properties referred imprecisely to the relationship between Credit Suisse First Boston and the Praedium investment fund, which recently sold the Princeton Forrestal Village shopping center. While Praedium was associated with Credit Suisse First Boston when Praedium acquired the property in 1997, the investment fund became independent of Credit Suisse in 1999. The article also misidentified the 1997 purchaser of a hotel on the property. It was the Starwood Corporation, not Starwood Heller.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At Princeton Forrestal Village, the new owner is converting 100,000 square feet of retailing space to other use. (Photo by Jane Therese for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL PROPERTY (95%); REAL ESTATE (93%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); CBRE GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%)

PERSON: HOWARD SCHULTZ (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



538 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; 
Alison Oneacre, Carter Burwell

 BODY:
Alison Kinkead Oneacre, a daughter of Dixie Oneacre and Dr. Lee P. Oneacre of Dallas, was married there yesterday to Carter Hamilton Burwell, a son of Carol Merchant Kirby of Washington and Armistead Burwell Jr. of Raleigh, N.C. The Rev. 
Russell C. Jonas III performed the ceremony at Highland Park Presbyterian Church.
 Mrs. Burwell, 29, was until September an editor of Eye, a nightlife column in Women's Wear Daily and in W magazine, both in New York. She is now a freelance writer in Washington. She graduated from Washington and Lee University. Her father is an oral surgeon in Dallas. 
 Mr. Burwell, also 29, is a law clerk to Judge Karen LeCraft Henderson of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Until August, he was a law clerk for Judge John Gleeson of the Federal District Court in Brooklyn. A graduate of Columbia, the bridegroom received a master's degree in political thought and intellectual history from Cambridge and a law degree from the University of Virginia. 
His mother was a founder and is a member of the board of Historic Manassas, a downtown revitalization group in Virginia. She was until this year the chairwoman of Merchant's Inc., a tire sales and automotive services business based in Manassas. His father is the chief executive of the National Packaging Solutions Group, a box maker in Raleigh. The bridegroom's stepmother, Linda Burwell, is a business consultant. The bridegroom's stepfather, Peter M. Kirby, is a partner in the Washington office of the law firm of Winston & Strawn. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); WRITERS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); LEGAL SERVICES (74%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (74%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (71%); LAWYERS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); APPEALS COURTS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); AUTOMOTIVE SERVICES (65%); STEPPARENTS (64%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); EXECUTIVES (51%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: WINSTON & STRAWN LLP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541199 ALL OTHER LEGAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: KAREN L HENDERSON (79%) ONEACRE, ALISON KINKEAD (ALISON KINKEAD BURWELL); BURWELL, CARTER HAMILTON 

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



539 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1561 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
When Nations Need A Little Marketing

BYLINE:  By JIM RENDON

 BODY:
SIMON ANHOLT, a British branding expert, spent a career developing international campaigns for Coca-Cola and Nestle. Now he is trying to put his image-making skills to work for a very different kind of client: countries with struggling economies, like Croatia and Slovenia.
 "I was getting bored with spending my life making already rich companies a little bit richer," said Mr. Anholt, who is 43 and based in London. So, earlier this year, he opened his own agency, Placebrands, with one clear goal: to help countries develop themselves as brands, with a carefully managed international identity, as recognizable as any consumer product. He has worked with Germany, Britain and New Zealand, in addition to Croatia and Slovenia, and is now in negotiations with Mongolia. 
 "When it comes to economic development, everyone talks about transportation, technology and civil service," Mr. Anholt said. "No one talks about marketing, which is bizarre. Marketing is at the heart of what makes rich countries rich." 
Mr. Anholt said he believed that helping countries develop and communicate strong brand identities could help speed up development by attracting foreign investors and tourists. That, in turn, could increase political influence and help a country's corporations grow. 
Mr. Anholt is not alone in seeing the possibilities in nation branding. The idea has been generating more interest in recent years as countries including the United States, Germany, France, Portugal, Estonia and Poland have brought in experts to help them tinker with their identities.
Next year, Finland will start a campaign to enhance its image as a center of high-tech innovation, with the hope of helping its technology companies fare better in the United States. Branding is also seen as crucial to many Central European countries that have realized that their timelines for acceptance into the European Union, and their ability to compete against their neighbors for investment, depend in part on how they are perceived by more developed European countries like France and Germany. 
Changing the image of a country is no easier than changing the image of a company or an individual. While branding may be able to help a country improve its communication with the world, it won't work if the country sends out lies or hype, said Erich Joachimsthaler, chief executive of Vivaldi Partners, a four-year-old agency that specializes in branding. Mr. Joachimsthaler said that when working with Germany, he had run into a perception gap that is common in such work. His German clients wanted to portray themselves as a passionate, emotional, flexible people, an image that he said was "a whole bunch of baloney." 
Charlotte Beers, the former chief executive of the advertising agency Ogilvy & Mather, served for a year and a half as President Bush's under secretary of state for public diplomacy and public affairs -- and part of the job was the task of selling America to the Middle East.
Jennifer L. Aaker, an associate professor of marketing at Stanford's Graduate School of Business, said that task was almost impossible. "One of the reasons that effort failed was because of the underlying product -- our policies were not perceived as pro-Middle East. We failed to understand the media, the culture, even the language in that region. It is difficult to garner favorable perceptions of the American brand in that context." 
While most countries have complicated identities, Croatia, one of Mr. Anholt's clients, is a particularly vexing case. To the extent that people in Western Europe think of the country at all, they associate it with Nazi complicity in World War II, Mr. Anholt said, or with the bloody conflicts in the 1990's between the Serbs and the Croats. Stjepo Martinovic, editor of Croatia's national heritage magazine, Matica, and a former adviser to the Croatian government on European integration, said that because Croatia is scheduled to join the European Union as early as 2007, it was particularly important that the country project a positive image.
"We are trying to present Croatia as a normal country, a market economy, a democratic society, a Mediterranean country," Mr. Martinovic said. He argues that Croatia can be made attractive to the rest of the world by letting people know about its inexpensive work force, its livable cities and its schools that offer classes in English -- as well as its ballet, theater and contemporary artists. 
Mr. Anholt's job is to assess these qualities, understand what outsiders may think about the country and then work to coordinate the messages from various ministries, private industry, cultural institutions and even sports teams. But Croatia cannot focus only on its assets and pretend that there are no negative associations, Mr. Anholt said. He is in the early stages of his work for Croatia but has come up with a one-liner for the country: "We're trying hard and developing quickly." 
Slovenia, another country that Mr. Anholt has advised, presents a different set of problems. The country is small, largely unknown and often confused with Slovakia.
"We're a country that recently got its independence," said Rok Klancnik, the former director of communications for Slovenia's tourism board and now the director of communications at the World Tourism Organization in Madrid. "We're striving to reach higher levels of economic, social and cultural development. Branding is not only useful, it's necessary." 
For Slovenia, sending musicians and artists abroad is one way to communicate. If someone enjoys a performance of the Ljubljana Symphony Orchestra in, say, Chicago, that will reflect well on Slovenia, Mr. Anholt said, and may encourage people to visit it or buy its products.
Because he regards branding as something that can take 10 or 20 years to achieve, Mr. Anholt does not recommend advertising as a solution. In the case of Slovenia, he argues that schools there should teach English, Italian and German. In 15 years, when some of those students are working in hotels and can greet visitors in their native languages, those visitors will be more likely to leave with a positive impression of the country. 
Wally Olins, a visiting fellow at the Said Business School at Oxford University and a founder of the branding firm Wolff-Olins, said a country's brand involved messages from dozens of agencies and private companies. Everything from its Web site design and trade show materials to its stance on complex issues like international trade agreements can give clues about a country's identity.
For example, Mexico's decision to sign the North American Free Trade Agreement did more to signal its readiness for foreign investment than any other single event could have, according to Robert Z. Lawrence, a professor of international trade and investment at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. Similarly, Mr. Anholt said, Slovenia's generosity in foreign aid -- it is a donor to countries in its region -- sends the message that the country is both stable and economically prosperous.
WORKING with countries can be exasperating. Corporations have top-down structures that require employees to get behind new projects and often have chief executives with long tenures. Nations have political factions, sudden leadership changes and vast bureaucracies. Branding programs may be seen as superfluous. Advertising firms and corporations may have different goals than government agencies. 
Mr. Anholt said he had started and stopped work with Slovenia many times. "Every time I get involved, I make friends, create a good impression, some of my advice is taken, some is not, and then I have to start all over again," he said. 
Whether branding is as useful as Mr. Anholt believes, however, is the subject of some debate, at least if the goal is to help a country's corporations expand internationally.
Many branding experts point to the success of Japan and Japanese corporations as an example of how national and corporate identities can benefit each other. After World War II, Japan became associated with poor-quality products, but in the 1980's, with the emergence of successful Japanese corporations like Toyota and Sony and Honda, the name Japan became synonymous with quality and technology. 
But to think that Mr. Anholt's branding efforts can do the same for Slovenia's companies may be wishful thinking, said Desmond Lachman, an economist and resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research organization. Japan had high regulatory standards and a relatively large domestic market that helped its corporations develop, Mr. Lachman said. Slovenia, on the other hand, has a tiny domestic market. It will not become another Japan no matter how it is branded, he said. 
The most efficient way for Eastern European countries with emerging economies to promote growth is to pursue policies that encourage investment from companies in France, Germany and other European Union countries to help develop a manufacturing base, Mr. Lachman said. 
Although Mr. Anholt says a better international image can have long-term international benefits, he does not argue that it's the right thing for every country. "Money should not be taken away from essential nation-building activity to do branding," he said. "If the roads need fixing, they are probably better off using their money to fix the roads."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Simon Anholt of Placebrands, with representatives of Mongolia at a dinner in London this month. Placebrands helps countries manage their images. (Photo by Nicole Nodland) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRANDING (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: NESTLE SA (58%); COCA-COLA CO (58%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (58%)

ORGANIZATION: PLACEBRANDS 

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (58%); KO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) ANHOLT, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CROATIA (93%); MONGOLIA (92%); SLOVENIA (92%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); FINLAND (76%); ESTONIA (71%); POLAND (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



540 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
How to Make The Deficit Look Smaller Than It Is

BYLINE:  By DANIEL GROSS; Daniel Gross writes the Moneybox column for Slate.com.

 BODY:
THE news on the federal budget deficit for fiscal 2003 was encouraging, wasn't it? In July 2003, the Office of Management and Budget projected a record deficit of $455 billion. But when the fiscal year ended in October, the shortfall was only $374 billion, equivalent to 3.5 percent of gross domestic product.
 "As a percentage of gross domestic product, the deficits are below the historical peaks that we've seen in the past," says J.T. Young, a spokesman for the Office of Management and Budget. In 1983, for example, the deficit was 6 percent of gross domestic product; in 1992, it was 4.7 percent. 
 Congratulating the administration for such an achievement, however, would be like raising the allowance of a high school student who brought home a D-minus in math instead of an F. 
If we factor out the so-called Social Security surplus -- payroll taxes collected by the government but not paid out in benefits -- the deficit in fiscal 2003 was actually far larger: $531 billion, or 4.9 percent of gross domestic product. For the current fiscal year, the administration expects that this figure, also called the on-budget deficit, will be even higher: $639 billion, or a whopping 5.4 percent of gross domestic product.
Every year since 1983, workers have paid more in Social Security payroll taxes than Social Security has paid out to beneficiaries. The surplus was supposed to be used to pay down the national debt. "That way, when the baby boomers are retired, our other debt will be lower and we'll be in a better position to borrow funds to pay for benefits," said Richard Kogan, senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal-leaning group in Washington.
To ensure the proper use of the Social Security surplus, Vice President Al Gore in 2000 proposed segregating the funds into a sort of lockbox. George W. Bush, then the Texas governor, also supported this concept, although his understanding of Social Security was revealed to be something less than complete. (In November 2000, during a campaign speech, he famously accused opponents of wanting "the federal government controlling the Social Security like it's some kind of federal program.") 
In the last three years, President Bush and Congress have viewed the Social Security surplus more as a cookie jar than a lockbox. The three budgets that Congress proposed, and Mr. Bush signed -- for the fiscal years 2002, 2003 and 2004 -- used $480 billion in excess Social Security payroll taxes to pay for government programs. According to the budget office, administration policies call for an additional $849 billion of excess Social Security funds to support government operations over the next four years.
Using excess payroll taxes for unintended purposes masks the true size of the operating deficit. The budget office predicts that the net deficit will shrink from $475 billion in fiscal 2004 to $226 billion, or 1.7 percent of gross domestic product, in 2008. Take away the ever-larger Social Security surpluses used in each of those years, however, and the on-budget deficit will stand at $464 billion in 2008.
The reality will likely be far worse, especially if you factor in costs that the White House doesn't include in its projections -- like the $87 billion recently appropriated for the war, or the extension of recently enacted tax cuts. In doing so, the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, the business-oriented Committee for Economic Development and the anti-deficit Concord Coalition have concluded that next year's on-budget deficit will be $687 billion -- not $639 billion, as the administration suggests. In 2008, the groups say, the on-budget deficit will be $692 billion and the net deficit will be $457 billion, or twice the Bush administration's projection. 
THE figures show that the personal and corporate income taxes that are supposed to fund government operations no longer come within shouting distance of doing so. And the refusal of the administration or its Congressional allies to acknowledge this reality has left normally mild-mannered deficit hawks on the verge of apoplexy. 
"The last time the situation reached this point, in the early 1990's, we had bipartisan agreement that we were reaching a fiscal crisis," said Maya MacGuineas, executive director of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget in Washington.
The response then was an unpalatable, but ultimately successful, mix of spending restraints and tax increases. But in the last few years -- with the sums involved far greater than they were in the early 1990's, and with the baby boomers nearing retirement -- Washington has raised spending sharply and cut taxes even more sharply. 
It's a fiscal Bizarro world.

GRAPHIC: Graph:Graph tracks the federal budget deficit, with and without Social Security surplus with projections into 2008. (Source by Center on Budget and Policy Priorities)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (93%); BUDGETS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); BUDGET FORECASTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); OFFICE MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LIBERALISM (68%); POLITICS (67%); BABY BOOMERS (50%) UNITED STATES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (91%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (59%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%); AL GORE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



541 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 4951 words

HEADLINE: The Disability Gulag 

BYLINE:  By Harriet McBryde Johnson; Hariett McBryde Johnson last wrote for the magazine about her exchanges with Peter Singer.

 BODY:
'My father died when I was 2, and I lost my mother when I was 5." Throughout my childhood, that's what Grandmother says. She's a fine storyteller with rare gifts for gross delicacy and folksy pomposity, but she doesn't give the details, and we don't ask. To me, it's enough knowing that she's an orphan, like Heidi -- like Tarzan even! What else is worth knowing?
 Eventually our cousins tell us. When Grandmother was 5, her mother didn't die. She was placed in an asylum. There she lived until Grandmother was in her 20's. There she died. 
 The news seems to answer some questions about Grandmother. Why does an independent thinker set such store on conventional behavior? Why did she marry a ridiculously steady Presbyterian? 
I think it's fear. Fear that one day something will go wrong and she, too, will be taken from her family, snatched from the place she has made in the world, robbed of her carefully constructed self and locked up for life. 
I know that fear. I share it. 
Grandmother lost her mother in the early 1900's to what was considered progressive policy. To protect society from the insane, feebleminded and physically defective, states invested enormous public capital in institutions, often scattered in remote areas. Into this state-created disability gulag people disappeared, one by one. 
Today, more than 1.7 million mothers and fathers, daughters and sons, are lost in America's disability gulag. Today's gulag characterizes isolation and control as care and protection, and the disappearances are often called voluntary placements. However, you don't vanish because that's what you want or need. You vanish because that's what the state offers. You make your choice from an array of one. 
But now the gulag faces a challenge from people who know the fear firsthand.
It's 1978. Just out of college, I'm working for a local disability rights organization. I'm riding, and also in my small way powering, a new wave, a shift from care and protection to rights and equality for people with disabilities. Part of my job is to give technical assistance on the new Section 504 regulations, which ban disability discrimination where the federal dollar goes. This gig has me squirmy. I'm consulting with Coastal Center, a state institution housing people with developmental disabilities -- primarily cognitive impairments and some severe physical disabilities -- about 20 miles from my home in Charleston, S.C. 
My paycheck won't support a lift-equipped van, so I go by car. I am transferred to my portable wheelchair and rolled into a room full of functionaries. How to establish an authoritative presence? I'm young and small and disabled and female. I seem to get away with the female part, but the rest is tough. 
Still, once I get going I start to think I can talk circles around the very best functionaries. In no time, it's almost noon. We're breaking up. 
The moment has come. "I have some old school friends in Cottage D-4," I say. "Could I possibly have lunch with them?"
There's some surprised hemming and hawing, but, yes, certainly, if I like. An administrative assistant is tasked to push me there. 
The "cottage" is a big rectangle in cement blocks and brick veneer. One side houses boys -- adult "boys" -- and the other is for "girls." 
My pusher leaves me in the central day room, parked against a wall. It seems both chaotic and lifeless. High on a wall, a TV blares, watched by no one. Ambulatory residents move across the floor with no apparent purpose. Along the walls, wheelchair people are lined up, obviously stuck where they're placed -- where we're placed, I should say, because I, too, am parked against a wall, unable to move -- like knickknacks on a shelf.
Six of these knickknacks are my old friends. Their eyes are happy to see me. Their bodies are beyond happy: wild, out of control. Cerebral palsy does that. I make myself grin. 
My pal Thomas is a cool customer. He looks straight at me, then cuts a rueful look at the others spazzing out. I can't hear his soft voice over all the racket, but I know he's offering formal words of welcome. 
Then we're moved en masse. Plates are put in front of us, with measured food in bite-size pieces. I'd like butter and salt, water instead of milk, but this isn't a restaurant. Thomas is parked beside me, and we chat about old times at our special crip school. We talk politics, as we did as kids. 
Some staff members sit and feed residents. Others come and go. They talk loudly to one another, and we tune them out. Then a woman's voice penetrates my skull, reaches my brain. "Is this the new girl from Whitten Center?"
I'm aware that the state's oldest institution is trying to reduce crowding. I look around for the new girl from Whitten Center. 
She asks again, "Is this the new girl from Whitten Center?"
I realize that she means me. 
I know it's irrational, but I want to scream. I can't, because they don't like screaming here, and in this panic I don't know what to do if I can't scream. 
My friends, amused, grimace and writhe. Please don't start laughing, I want to say. Don't go all spazzy! 
"Is this the new girl from Whitten Center?"
Thomas answers. "She's our friend. She's from outside." He has come to my defense! 
The loudmouthed staff members don't hear. "Who is this girl?"
"She's from outside." 
"Did you say from outside?" 
Thomas coughs. "Look at her hair."
The aide studies the shiny braid that falls to my knees. She remarks on my pretty dress and my real gold bangle bracelet. Obviously from outside. Speaking to me now, she asks simple questions. I manage to explain how I know these people, where I live, what I do. The staff members are amazed that someone with such high care needs went to college, has a job, lives outside. All agree that I'm high-functioning, mentally. 
Time to go home, but first I have to use the bathroom. Why did I sip that coffee in the conference room? Oh, well. At least this place has beds and bedpans and aides who handle them regularly. I ask for help.
Aides scurry about to improvise a screen. "I'm sorry there's no privacy; we're just not set up for visitors to use bedpans." 
What about residents? Is privacy only for visitors with gold bracelets? 
I can't ask; I'm begging a favor. In front of my friends, I can't demand special treatment. If they routinely show their nakedness and what falls into their bedpans, then I will, too. Despite my degree and job and long hair, I'm still one of them. I'm a crip. A bedpan crip. And for a bedpan crip in this place, private urination is not something we have a right to expect. I say it's O.K. 
It's a two-person job the way they do it. My way is quicker and easier, but they get their instructions from their bosses, not from the people they help. They try to hide me with sheets. 
That evening, I tell my family the funny story about how I was mistaken for the new girl from Whitten Center and how Thomas and my long hair saved me from life in prison. I don't tell them it wasn't funny when it happened. I don't tell how the fear felt. 
It comes from a different experience, but I'm convinced that my fear is the same fear Grandmother knew. Because of a neuromuscular disease, I have never walked, dressed, bathed or donemuch of anything on my own. Therefore, I am categorized as needing special treatment and care. 
To Grandmother, that meant extra concern, special pleasure when things went well, tangible help at times. Most summers, she kept me at her house for a week or so with my cousin Mary Neil. The widow of a prosperous small-town pharmacy owner, Grandmother let us roam the town with whichever teenager she had hired to help. Anyone could do the job, because I explained everything step by step; Mary Neil learned the drill, too. Free of hands-on duties, Grandmother entertained herself and us with her inexhaustible store of memorized poetry, quoted inappropriately. Squeezing into an old-fashioned girdle, she would say, "What strange Providence hath shaped our ends?" or "Oh, that this too too solid flesh would melt." Coping with my special needs wasn't all that onerous.
To the larger world, my needs had serious implications. I couldn't go to school or to camp with my brothers and sister. I was exiled to "special" places. As my peer group entered adolescence, the gulag swallowed about half of my classmates. Four went in 1969. They "graduated" into an institution after a ceremony with caps and gowns and tears. Others, including Thomas, just didn't come back after summer vacation. My friends' parents, asking the state for help, were persuaded to place them where they would get the specialized care they supposedly needed.
In fact, until they disappeared, my friends got their care from people with no formal training. The main difference between them and me was economic. My family could afford hired help. Thus insulated, they didn't go to the state, and the state didn't tell them it puts people like me away. 
I knew my family wasn't like F.D.R.'s or Helen Keller's; they didn't have the means to set me up for life. I was more like one of my girlfriends, who had lived with nice parents in a nice house with a nice hired lady to take her to the park to meet me and my lady -- until something went wrong and she disappeared into Coastal Center. Whenever my parents scrambled to pay for something unexpected, a part of me saw my freedom hanging in the balance. I learned early that privilege doesn't always last. 
The nondisabled world sees powerlessness as the natural product of dependence and dependence as the natural product of our needs. However, for nondisabled people, needs are met routinely without restricting your freedom. In the gulag, you have no power. The gulag swallows your money, separates you from your friends, makes you fearful, robs you of your capacity to say -- or even know -- what you want. 
The day I visited Coastal Center, I was beginning an interesting career and should have felt that the world was all before me. Instead, worries nagged me. What if there isn't enough money? What if family can't take care of me? 
Back then, my best hope was to die young. My disability would progress until I needed a ventilator. Then, near the end of my life, I figured, I'd slide into my slot in the gulag.
All it takes to teach me how wrong I have been is about 45 seconds in the company of a man named Ed Roberts. It's 1979. He's speaking in Arlington, Va. 
In the small world of disability rights, he is a star with a famous story. He is paralyzed from the neck down as a result of childhood polio. In his youth, he was denied services by California's Department of Rehabilitation for being too disabled to work. A decade and a half later, he became head of the department. In between, he fought his way into the University of California at Berkeley and, with other severely disabled activists, helped set in motion the disability rights movement, which is now challenging the gulag's right to exist. It is pushing for a shift away from public financing for institutionalization and to public financing for personal assistance, controlled by us. The government should pay for the help we need, and it should not force us to give up our freedom as the quid pro quo. 
Never was a big star more frail. Physically, his power chair overwhelms him. And there's more. He gets each breath from a machine; his speech follows the rhythms of the ventilator whoosh. With each whoosh, he is changing my worldview. 
It's not what he has done. Not what he is saying. Not who he is. It's his presence. Whoosh. His bad-boy delight in truth-telling. Whoosh. His hellcat gusto for proving the world wrong. Whoosh.
He is decrepit and tough and amazingly funny. He is a big state agency head unlike any the world has ever seen. 
In less than a minute, Ed shows me that I have been wrong about people with vents, just as the nondisabled world has been wrong about me. Whoosh. 
A life like his can turn a life like mine upside down. Whoosh. And lives like ours can turn the world upside down -- or maybe set it right side up. Whoosh. 
It's 1984. I'm living in Columbia, S.C., 100 miles from my family, taking advantage of new possibilities. Until the Section 504 regulations, disability discrimination by universities was routine and unapologetic. Now, at the University of South Carolina law school, I am one of six wheelchair users. Five of us use power chairs; without someone's help, we can't get out of bed. As schoolmates strut in power suits, we whir around with book bags hanging from our push handles and make bottlenecks at the elevators. I think of us as a counterculture that challenges the get-ahead Me Decade. Most people, when they think about us, operate under the delusion that we're inspirations. 
Between classes, I catch up with Dave, a classmate who is quadriplegic as a result of spinal cord injury. There's a good movie at the student union tonight. Let's go. O.K., and a burger before. Fine. A plan. 
Nearly. First we repair to adjoining pay phones to reschedule our afternoons. Each of us grabs a passing student to dial. Busy signal. Try this number. No answer. Try that first number again. Hey, can you do 4 instead of 5? Then another call. No answer. Try this one. 
My student dialer has to run. Another takes his place. 
Hey, I'm going out. Can we do 10 instead of 9? Do you know where so-and-so is? Hi. Can you unpack my books at 3? 
Between us, it takes about a dozen calls. 
"Dave," I say, "this is some crazy way to live, ain't it?"
He gives his diffident C-student shrug. "Yeah. When I was injured, I didn't want to live this way. They said I'd adjust, but I wanted to die. Well, you know, the guy I was then, he got what he wanted. He died. I'm a different guy now."
It's a complicated life, to schedule in advance each bathroom trip, each bath, each bedtime, each laying out of our food and big law books, each getting in and out of our chairs. But it can be done. We're doing it. We can do what we want. No need to get anyone's permission. No need to have it documented in any nursing plan or logged onto any chart. No one can tell us no. 
We can meet for a burger and a movie if we want. 
Every so often, there are efforts to try something different for young disabled people. When Dave and I were in law school, the university got one dormitory licensed as a care facility. Medically, I qualified for placement there, and the promise of around-the-clock aides sounded appealing when I had never lived away from home. Financially, I was too rich for Medicaid and way too poor for the self-pay rate. Dave had Medicaid, but his life had already taught him the value of freedom. The students in the on-campus nursing home helped me learn the same lesson. Even with a good staff and decent conditions, they were robbed of basic choices. The staff members were controlled by the facility, not by the students who lived there.
I relied mainly on resources available to any student. Because of Section 504, I had access to student housing, transportation and cafeteria service. A small grant from a disability agency, a student loan, work study, summer earnings and a Strom Thurmond Scholarship, of all things, covered the usual costs of law school, plus three and a half hours of help per day from student workers I selected. Sometimes I kicked in a bit extra on the rent to get an especially helpful roommate. It's true that I depended on the kindness of strangers and friends and sometimes wondered how I would hold it together. But always there was some lucky break.
Sometimes the break was a check from Grandmother with a note, "Be prepared a strict account to give." Or, "Squander in riotous living." Either way, she showed that she still rejoiced in my success and also worried about me. 
By this time, she also worried about her own place on the edge of the gulag. As age brought disabilities, she got my cousin Mary Neil to move in. Grandmother had enough money to see her through, but not if it had to purchase lots of long-term care. The state's only solution was to make her poor and then foot the big bill for lockup in a nursing home. 
The nursing home is the gulag's face for people like Dave, me and Grandmother. That is where the imperatives of Medicaid financing drive us, sometimes facilitated by hospital discharge planners, "continuum of care" contracts or social-service workers whose job is to "protect vulnerable adults." Pushed by other financing mechanisms, people with cognitive disabilities land in "state schools," and the psychiatrically uncured and chronic are Ping-Ponged in and out of hospitals or mired in board-and-care homes. For all these groups, the disability rights critique identified a common structure that needlessly steals away liberty as the price of care. 
In 1984, the general thinking couldn't go beyond nicer, smaller, "homier" institutions. With my experience as a high-maintenance, low-budget crip surviving outside the gulag, I offered myself in local meetings, hearings and informal discussions as an independent living poster girl. I explained that certain states, like New York, Massachusetts, Colorado and California, offer in-home services. 
But, people said, South Carolina is a conservative state.
I talked up the need for comprehensive civil rights legislation. Extend Section 504's principles to all levels of government and the private sector. 
It'll never happen, people said. The civil rights era has passed.
We got civil rights legislation -- the Americans With Disabilities Act -- in 1990. It's a fluke, people said. It won't be enforced. 
In 1995, the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit ruled that the A.D.A. bans segregation. Needless isolation of people with disabilities in institutions is segregation. That's a liberal circuit, people said. The Supreme Court will reverse. 
In 1999, the Supreme Court, in Olmstead v. L.C., affirmed that needless institutional confinement violates the A.D.A. Fine, but it's just words on paper, people said. The financing still drives us into institutions.
That's very true. But the movement has been treating Olmstead rights as if they're real, using the court's legitimacy to demand a wide variety of programs, like in-home care, on-call and backup help, phone monitoring, noninstitutional housing options, independent-living-skills training and assistive technology. We're also going after red tape, legal restrictions and the mind-set that says that if you need help, you need professional supervision. 
It's the spring of 2002. I'm testifying before a subcommittee of the South Carolina State Senate. Beside me is my friend Kermit. 
Kermit calls me his big sister in disability. In fact, he's downright massive and a generation older than I am, but I'm his senior because he became a quad two years after I was born into disability. 
The black battery box on his chair sports two stickers. The shocking pink one is from Mouth, a radical disability magazine. It says, "Too sexy for a nursing home." "It's true, you know," Kermit often explains. "I did seven years inside. In so long, I felt weird when someone took me out, like I didn't belong. But I was too sexy to stay. I took up with one of the aides and married my way to freedom." That marriage ended years ago, and Kermit no longer has family help, but he will never go back. His other sticker, plain white, says, "Yes 977." He had them printed today. They're about the bill we're here for.
Senate Bill 977 would amend state law to exclude "self-directed attendant services" from the legal definition of nursing. Current law presumes that all hands-on physical care, for pay, is the practice of nursing and must be provided by or supervised by licensed personnel. The nursing profession has jurisdiction over our bodies and decides when to delegate authority. Those who handle us are supposed to get their instructions from a written nursing plan, not from us. 
The law hasn't been enforced against self-pay crips like Kermit and me, but federal law requires Medicaid and Medicare to abide by the state nursing law. That means that their beneficiaries must accept whatever comes from a licensed agency. Agencies typically can't cover Christmas morning, late nights out or many bathroom trips spread out over the day. Because the easiest place to get nursing is in a nursing facility, this law becomes another path into the gulag.
Kermit and I know what works. Through informal networks, we find people to do what we need. Because we are the ones doing the delegating, we are free. Kermit used his freedom for a civil service career; today he uses $20,000 per year of his retirement savings to pay for that freedom, about half of South Carolina's Medicaid nursing home rate. With family backup, I get by with the irregular income of a solo law practice, stashing money in good years to cover bad ones. Our bill would legalize the way we live. It would also remove a legal barrier so that we can agitate for South Carolina Medicaid to finance self-directed services and make real choices possible. 
The subcommittee is bothered about safety. The administrator for the Board of Nursing argues that complications like pressure sores and infections can be fatal. Nursing supervision is needed, she says, to recognize the danger signs. 
I wish Kermit were testifying. He has been self-directing very complicated stuff, and he endures, more than 40 years after his accident. He also has a great physical persona. His stillness communicates rock-solid strength. His whiteness -- a result of avoiding Columbia's killing sun -- is not so much pale as gleaming. But he doesn't like public speaking. He is happiest finding people in nursing homes with dreams of freedom, helping them make the break. It's underground railroad work, and I'm ashamed to say it's not for me. I still panic when I go into those places. Let me talk to the functionaries. 
So I explain our reality to the senators. We learn to recognize our danger signs. We care about our own safety. We can decide when to consult a professional, as nondisabled people do. 
And, incidentally -- bad things have been known to happen even when a nursing plan is in place. 
Inevitably, the senators look for a middle ground. What if we allow self-direction for "routine" procedures like bathing and dressing, but retain nursing control over "nonroutine" procedures like vent care and catheters?
Kermit's craggy face falls. They're talking about fixing the law for me, but not for him -- or for Ed Roberts, who lived on a ventilator, or future me. 
I have been advised to sidestep the gory stuff, but here we go. "Senator, if you need a urinary catheter inserted every time you need to go, say three to six times per day, that becomes a routine procedure -- for you." 
I sit so low, I can see, under their table, all of the senators crossing their legs. I have their attention. 
They question me about procedures involving tubes, needles, rubber-gloved fingers, orifices natural and man-made. I won't flinch. Never mind that Grandmother would consider all of this indelicate. "We know how to do them. And all these procedures are commonly done by unpaid family members. That's entirely legal, and the nurses don't mind. The nursing law isn't about safety and professional qualifications. It's about who can get paid." 
One senator is a fundamentalist-Christian Republican, the kind who says that the anti-sodomy laws should be strengthened and enforced. "Ms. Johnson, you've explained why this bill won't put people at greater risk, but I don't understand why you care enough to travel from Charleston to push for it.
"Two reasons, Senator. One is, changing the law will free up resources to meet needs that aren't being met now. With this change, we can push third-party payers like Medicaid to fund more options, make the money go further. Home care in the aggregate costs less than locking people up. 
"The other is simpler. I want the legal right to say who comes in my bedroom and who sees me naked -- same as you do, Senator!"
Redness rises from the senator's tie and washes up his face. Once we have him blushing, the others fall in line. The favorable vote is unanimous. 
We roll outside. My teal minivan is parked near Kermit's "Freedom Van" -- a white vehicle with controls he can operate with his limp fingers in metal splints. 
Kermit stops. "You done good, girlie."
No one but Kermit gets to call me girlie. I sometimes call him Mount Rushmore.
Our bill became law on July 1, 2002, in time for Independence Day. Self-pay people won the right to control our bodies, but getting public financiers to allow the same flexibility is a continuing struggle.
Ultimately, saving ourselves from the gulag will take more than redefinition. It also takes money for in-home services. But in a sense, we're spending the money now -- $20,000 to $100,000 per person per year, depending on the state -- for institutional lockup, the most expensive and least efficient service alternative.
For decades, our movement has been pushing federal legislation, currently known as MiCassa, the Medicaid Community Assistance Services and Supports Act, to correct the institutional bias in public financing, especially Medicaid, the gulag's big engine. We ask, Why does Medicaid law require every state to finance the gulag but make in-home services optional? Why must states ask Washington for a special "waiver" for comprehensive in-home services? Why not make lockup the exception? "Our homes, not nursing homes." It's a powerful rallying cry within the movement. In the larger world, it's mostly unheard, poorly understood. We are still conceptualized as bundles of needs occupying institutional beds, a drain upon society.
We know better. Integrated into communities, we ride the city bus or our own cars instead of medical transportation. We enjoy friends instead of recreational therapy. We get our food from supermarkets instead of dietitians. We go to work instead of to day programs. Our needs become less "special" and more like the ordinary needs that are routinely met in society. In freedom, we can do our bit to meet the needs of others. We might prove too valuable to be put away.
While the movement has been collectively trying to change the world, individuals continue to live and die. 
My law-school friend Dave fell into the gulag in the end. A series of events -- a career setback, some acute medical problems, perhaps creeping disappointment -- made him sign into a nursing home. He vanished without telling his friends he was going and died within the year. My little brother Kermit remains free and is using his freedom well.
Ed Roberts died in 1995, free, keyed up about digital organizing among other things. For one, he was planning to get back to Hawaii to swim with whales: a shark sighting had thwarted his previous attempt. He did manage to float with dolphins in Florida. His respirator fell into the ocean, but he always traveled with two. 
Most of my friends from Coastal Center are now placed in small group homes. Although they have bedrooms with doors they can close, they work in "special" programs, and they still can't select their own assistants or decide where they live or with whom. After more than 30 years in the system, they probably can't imagine living any other way, but in a way they never had a choice. "Placed" remains the operative word.
Thomas lives in his own apartment and works as a courier in a hospital. Through a waiver program, South Carolina Medicaid pays an agency to get him in and out of bed each day. To cover frequent no-shows, he paid an on-call aide out of pocket for a while, but he couldn't afford to continue. He would like to use Medicaid funds to pay his own people, but state rules haven't yet been changed to allow that. He has taken advantage of programs that have slowly evolved and says he hopes to stay free long enough to have genuine control of his life. 
Grandmother died in 1985 and avoided the gulag, thanks to Mary Neil. She inherited the house and lives with her family in the rural community where our family would otherwise be extinct. 
When Grandmother died, I thought she might leave me some money -- for riotous living or a strict account to give. She didn't, but I wasn't disappointed. She left me the silver spoons that belonged to her mother. Sometimes I wonder if my great-grandmother missed her spoons when she was locked up. More often I wonder how Grandmother felt when she held her lost mother's spoons and turned them over in her mouth and let her tongue mold itself to their shape. 
I use those spoons daily. Their flat handles are easy to grasp. Their deep bowls hold as much yogurt as I can swallow. For me, that smooth silver represents the treasure of living free. Ridingin the van I bought, in a hand-me-down power chair I got from Kermit, I hold my freedom precious. I can no longer braid my own hair, but I remain free to keep it long, and I do. My gold bracelet was mangled in a fall a while back, but I still wear it for good luck. I still need all the luck I can get. 
I have prospered and know a world I once could not imagine. I sometimes dare to dream that the gulag will be gone in a generation or two. But meanwhile, the lost languish in the gulag. Those who die there are replaced by new arrivals. Powerful interests, both capital and labor, profit from our confinement and fight to keep things as they are. At this writing, MiCassa is stalled in committee. Again. Institutional financing remains nondiscretionary under Medicaid. 
It is still possible -- indeed, probable -- that before I die I will become separated from my silver spoons and my gold bracelet and I'll have to get my hair cut for the convenience of the people who staff whatever facility I am placed in.
Even now, I live on the edge of the disability gulag. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Institutionalized because of their disabilities: a fate the author has managed to keep at bay . . . so far. (Photograph by Eugene Richards; Magnum) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISABLED PERSONS (89%); ORPHANS (78%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (74%); DISABILITY DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (69%); DISCRIMINATION (69%); WHEELCHAIRS & MOBILITY AIDS (64%); LEGISLATION (64%) Handicapped; Law and Legislation; Biographical Information; Handicapped

PERSON: Harriet Mcbryde Johnson; Ed Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (66%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) South Carolina

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



542 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 1599 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE; 
Visions of Dollars Dance Before Cuban Artists' Eyes

BYLINE:  By MARIA FINN; Maria Finn, a freelance writer based in Brooklyn, is currently editing "Cuba in Mind," an anthology to be published by Vintage Books next spring.

DATELINE: HAVANA 

 BODY:
ONCE again and, as usual, seemingly against all odds, the Havana Biennial opened. In this, the eighth rendition, contemporary artworks from around the world vie for attention with the decrepitly beautiful colonial city where they are displayed indoors and out.
 The theme of the 2003 biennial, "El Arte con la Vida" or "Art With Life," foreshadowed the event itself, as the Prince Claus Foundation, a Dutch cultural fund that supported the biennial in the past, withheld its $100,000 pledge in protest against the imprisonment, in April, of 75 dissidents -- primarily librarians, journalists and organizers of a referendum calling for democratic reforms like freedom of association and expression -- sentenced to up to 28 years in jail by the Cuban government. 
 This did not stop the show, but it may have contributed to the stunning disorganization of the event. Visitors milled around the headquarters of the organizer, the Wilfredo Lam Center in Old Havana, trying to figure out where they could find a schedule of the exhibitions, performances and panel discussions taking place throughout Havana. The responses by officials to questions usually fluctuated between "come back tomorrow" and "I don't know." 
But this barely slowed the momentum, because art has become big business in Cuba. Charter flights from the United States to Havana filled fast this year, as curators, art buyers, gallery owners and artists jockeyed for seats with large groups of travelers on cultural tours. While real estate developers and tourist agencies in the United States cannot do business with Cuba, art collectors can, and works of art here are generally considered good investments.
This year, people headed to the biennial, held from Nov. 1 through Dec. 15, with a heightened sense of urgency. After Jan. 1, very few cultural licenses will be renewed by the Treasury Department. This is part of President Bush's plan to tighten the embargo on Cuba in an attempt to force Fidel Castro to introduce democratic reforms. United States officials sharply curtailed the cultural exchanges because they felt the trips were being abused by Americans simply looking to vacation in Cuba.
At the Taller Experimental de Grafica, a print studio in Old Havana, Rebecca Schnelker, curator at the Tamarind Institute in Albuquerque, was on the lookout for talented printmakers to invite to workshops. With the changing climate between Cuba and the United States, she fears this will be difficult.
"A few years ago it took three weeks for a Cuban artist to get a visa to come to the States," Ms. Schnelker said. "Now, it's nearly impossible."
This year, a climate of uncertainty hangs over the events. Congress voted to end the travel embargo to Cuba, reasoning that a deluge of American citizens traveling to the island could be more effective in pressuring the communist government than the embargo. The president pledged to veto the bill and to use the Department of Homeland Security to track down violators. Two weeks ago, a Senate-House committee stripped the provision from an appropriations bill, but still, because of the bipartisan support for lifting the travel ban, many people think an end to it is imminent.
Whether hordes of American tourists descend on Cuba or tours are canceled altogether, life for artists in Cuba will change dramatically. Either they will return to trying to survive on the Cuban peso like most of the population, or the influx of American dollars could create a scramble to make ideologically neutral work, art that sells.
Younger generations of Cuban artists have become savvy about their careers. They know the rewards of being noticed during the biennial are fellowships to study in the United States, exhibitions in American galleries, gallery representation and cash from collectors. Meanwhile, American tour groups have been coming to Cuba to visit the homes of artists and buy their work. These artists have cachet in Cuba, and they also have financial clout as important attractions at a time when Cuba has come to rely on tourism as its primary industry. 
Some people attending the biennial lament such commercialization. Teresa Iturralde represents several Cuban artists at her Los Angeles space, the Iturralde Gallery. "Young artists here are creating art to sell," she said. "They saw what happened at the last biennials, and they are making what they think people want to buy, and it's a little disappointing."
Among the Cuban artists Ms. Iturralde represents are Raul Cordero, Fernando Rodriguez and Juan Carlos Alon, whose works command prices from $1,000 to $10,000. In a country where surgeons earn approximately $20 a month, this is an enormous amount of money. To get these prices, an artist must have a name, an individuality that is in opposition to the values of socialism.
After the revolution of 1959, artists in Cuba like the painter Raul Martinez or the multimedia artist Alberto Blanco contributed their talents to community projects. They designed posters and billboards to be disseminated around Cuba advertising Cuban films, giving health advice and encouraging the sugar cane harvest. At the last biennial (which in Cuba does not occur every two years as the name implies; the last one was in 2000), groups of Cuban artists, brought together by Rene Francisco Rodriguez, collaborated on installations at El Morro, a 16th-century fort. This year, no such collaboration took place.
Mr. Francisco, whose biennial exhibition is at the Museo de Bellas Artes, has been invited to the United States several times for shows and to colleges as a visiting artist. He believes that for the Cuban artists the motivation is not just money but also international recognition. 
"When the U.S. says 'yes' to your art, it matters," he said. "But it's too bad in a way. The work here used to be radical and more in the streets for the Cuban people. Now, the art is made more for New York City."
Because of his success as an artist, Mr. Francisco could live anywhere he wants in the world, but he stays in Havana because, he says, he has a much higher standard of living here than in New York or Berlin, where a small apartment costs much more than a nice house in Havana.
He also works as a professor at the Instituto Superior de Arte in Havana, saying he believes that he has a responsibility to the Cuban artists who came before him as well as to his students and to the role of artists in Cuba's development. Since the collapse of the Soviet Union in the late 1980's, Cuba has been left financially insecure and without a social model to follow. For perhaps the first time in Cuba's history, it has not had a larger country to rely on for help in surviving.
Mr. Francisco encourages his students at the institute to make art part of the community instead of just for themselves. He and his students rehabilitate buildings in Old Havana for impoverished families, repairing them and painting the walls. In this way, he says, art is not isolated but has a practical function in the community. Among the students involved in a 1990 project with Mr. Francisco were Los Carpinteros (The Carpenters).
They followed Mr. Francisco's idea of trying to forgo self-interest and creating a collective identity in which nobody signed his own name. This group of young men, Alexandre Arrechea, Dagoberto Rodrigues and Merco Castillo, all now in their early 30's, traveled to New York for shows at P.S. 1 in Queens in 2001, the New Museum of Contemporary Art in 1998 and Art in General in 1996. The group is known for installations of shapes that reinterpret urban spaces, evoking movement and impermanence.
Los Carpinteros embody both the Castro era's values of Cuban art of the collective and the new sophistication of young Cuban artists who are less self-referential and more abstract. But their current show here proved to be the final collaboration for one member of the group. 
While creating the biennial installation "Fluido," large black nylon shapes resembling drops of liquids, Mr. Arrechea decided to leave. "As a Carpintero, I renounced by own persona for the experience of working as part of a group," he said. "Now I want to work in a different way, and I'm trying to recover my own identity."
At a small gathering apart from the biennial, Mr. Arrechea gave a presentation of a new video project. He had created a series pictures resembling police sketches and projected one after the other onto the screen, sometimes showing pairs of faces in tandem. The men's faces looked like those made by forensic artists. Video representations of actual eyes animated the faces, creating isolated expressions of bewilderment and concern.
"These men possibly exist," Mr. Arrechea explained. "But it can't be confirmed. It's still a search."
At another exhibition apart from the biennial, on a beach near the burned-out shell of Casino de Santa Fe, Grupo 609, a collective of young women named for the dorm room they once shared at the institute, climbed into a shallow river under a low concrete bridge. With musicians accompanying them from shore, they performed a puppet show from behind a tarp. The puppets danced to whistling, grunting, hissing and snoring noises that echoed from under the bridge. In this way, Grupo 609 mocked and condemned machismo in Cuban society.
For the grand finale, people standing on the bridge waved sparklers, and as if in response, lightning sparked behind thick clouds gathered over the sea. When the performance ended, a group of neighborhood boys collected their bikes, and as they mounted them, one commented, "I didn't really understand it, but I think I liked it."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 14, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on Nov. 23 about the 2003 Havana Biennial included misspellings provided by the Museo de Bellas Artes in Havana for two artists' names. They are Marco Castillo, not Merco, and Dagoberto Rodriguez, not Rodrigues. The article also misspelled the surname of an artist represented by a Los Angeles gallery owner who commented on the commercialization of Cuban art. He is Juan Carlos Alom, not Alon.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Havana Biennial, from top: Armando Mario's installation "La Patera"; the Finnish artist Kaarina Kaikkonen's "Striving"; the artist and teacher Rene Francisco Rodriguez. (Photo by Jose Exposito/Klixpix); (Photo by Janis Lewin); (Photo by Janis Lewin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (85%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); JAIL SENTENCING (75%); VETO (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); SENTENCING (70%); REFERENDUMS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); REAL ESTATE (67%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (65%); CLIMATE CHANGE (60%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%); LEGISLATION (60%); FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY & ASSOCIATION (55%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (50%) Art; Havana (Art) Biennial; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: Los Carpinteros (Artists' Group)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%) Rene Francisco Rodriguez; Maria Finn

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (92%) NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%) Havana (Cuba); Cuba

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



543 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 3; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1998 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC; 
The Dodgers Weren't Enough: Now They Have Disney Hall

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
MOVIE stars, civic leaders and cultural administrators turned out in droves last month for the inaugural galas at Walt Disney Concert Hall, the spectacular new home of the Los Angeles Philharmonic. Among them was Zarin Mehta, the executive director of the New York Philharmonic, and it was hard not to feel a little sorry for him as he circulated through the elegant lobbies.
 Yes, the feisty Mr. Mehta has a penchant for exasperating critics, board members and artists' managers. And during the New York Philharmonic's leak-prone, ill-fated merger talks with Carnegie Hall in recent months, Mr. Mehta proved an unyielding and contentious negotiator. But he and the orchestra, long frustrated with Avery Fisher Hall, must be envious of the Los Angeles Philharmonic's success in having rallied support against great economic and bureaucratic odds to build an architecturally enchanting and acoustically vibrant 21st-century facility. 
 Disney Hall is not just an inviting auditorium; it's a tangible sign of the city's belief in the Los Angeles Philharmonic and its charismatic music director, Esa-Pekka Salonen, a 45-year-old Finnish conductor and composer. Los Angeles -- the home of Hollywood, mission control for all trends in popular culture and La-La Land to intellectually snobbish East Coasters -- is counting on a symphony orchestra to bring new vitality to the downtown area. In contrast, the tradition-bound New York Philharmonic -- after its years of public squabbling with Lincoln Center, its whiny complaints about Avery Fisher Hall and the embarrassing collapse of its ill-conceived merger plan -- has opened itself to charges of being self-absorbed and hopelessly staid.
As if to drive the point home, the Berlin Philharmonic conquered New York this month with three bracing programs at Carnegie Hall, conducted by its dynamic music director, Simon Rattle, now in his second season. Few orchestras have a more storied heritage. Yet in hiring Sir Simon, who seems younger than his 48 years, the Berlin Philharmonic showed the courage to change.
On taking the post, Sir Simon announced his intention to bring the orchestra into the 21st century, bolster its commitment to contemporary music and forge ties with living composers. The Carnegie programs juxtaposed old works and new: Beethoven's "Pastoral" Symphony and Gyorgy Ligeti's Violin Concerto; Schubert's great C major Symphony and Heiner Goebbels's eclectic "Aus Einem Tagebuch" ("From a Diary"). There were lots of young faces among the players; the orchestra's energetic music-making leaped off the stage.
Back in Los Angeles, the achievements of the Philharmonic go far beyond corralling the community into supporting the construction of a landmark concert hall. Its moment has been long in coming -- at least since 1984, when Mr. Salonen, at 26, conducted the orchestra in his American debut. By the time he was appointed music director, in 1992, the institution had determined to make itself a cutting-edge orchestra with a new hall to match.
Though its former home, the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion, was too big and acoustically indistinct, Mr. Salonen and his players made the best of it. With his exciting programming -- ambitious festivals of music by Schoenberg, Stravinsky and Lutoslawski; subscription concerts that boldly alternated Ligeti works with Haydn symphonies -- Mr. Salonen was already showing where he intended to take the Los Angeles Philharmonic. Under his leadership, the orchestra became a lean, burnished and modern ensemble, giving Angelenos a reason to rally behind the Disney Hall project.
The opening programs made good on the promise. Virtually a festival of contemporary music, they included premieres by John Adams and John Williams, whose "Soundings" opened a substantive and fascinating program of film music. Not a single 19th-century work was played, though a brass canzona by Gabrieli and a minisymphony by Mozart were presented to demonstrate the subtleties of the hall's acoustics.
And as the Los Angeles Philharmonic was capturing international attention at Disney Hall, what was the New York Philharmonic up to? A "Beethoven Experience": six programs devoted to Beethoven's nine symphonies and five piano concertos in 12 concerts, conducted by the orchestra's music director, Lorin Maazel. The New York Philharmonic lays claim to Beethoven because it introduced several of his symphonies to American audiences in the mid-19th century. But didn't that franchise expire long ago? What orchestra wouldn't claim closeness to Beethoven?
Mr. Maazel's immediate predecessor, Kurt Masur, presented a Beethoven symphony cycle only five years ago. But Mr. Maazel clearly wanted to put his interpretive stamp on the symphonies for Philharmonic audiences. New York critics mostly avoided the series, as lacking in news value. The one concert I attended was undistinguished: a technically adept but pro forma reading of the ebullient Fourth Symphony, a hard-driven account of the famous Fifth and a dismaying performance of the Third Piano Concerto. In the concerto, the expressive liberties of Gianluca Cascioli, a young, technically facile but indulgent Italian pianist, were completely at odds with Mr. Maazel's micromanaging.
Some music directors might fairly argue that new audiences are more likely to be converted to classical music by Beethoven than by Lutoslowski. But not when Beethoven is performed in such an insistently monumental manner. I'd put my money on Mr. Rattle's performance of the "Pastoral" Symphony -- coming after works by Bartok and Ligeti, which made the score seem audacious and fresh -- to awaken interest in Beethoven among first-time listeners.
To his credit, Mr. Maazel is presenting the American or Philharmonic premieres of several works this season. The subscription series began with a major new symphony by one of the finest composers around, Stephen Hartke, a Los Angeles resident inexplicably ignored by Mr. Salonen.
Yet for the most part, programming under Mr. Maazel has been conventional, heavy on blockbuster works of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. It might, for example, be interesting to hear the probing young pianist Lars Vogt play Brahms's First Concerto in February, but not in a program with a potpourri of preludes and overtures by Wagner. This is programming by default, simply combining familiar works by late Romantic German giants.
Last month The New York Times published two volatile columns by Deborah Solomon, a cultural critic, who dismissed Lincoln Center as an elitist institution that has become irrelevant to young New Yorkers. As it relates to the production arm of Lincoln Center, the charge is unfair. In just the last year, the Great Performers and New Visions series and the Lincoln Center Festival have presented an avant-garde opera by Salvatore Sciarrino, a celebration of music by Mr. Adams, a Chinese opera, the Bang on a Can All-Stars and much more.
Jane S. Moss, the vice president for programming at Lincoln Center, is as creative a concert presenter as any in the business. Her efforts to make Lincoln Center a happening place are impeded by the musty thinking of certain constituents, especially the New York Philharmonic, which sees nothing wrong with the status quo and is tightly bound to the subscription series format.
Actually, no major American orchestra, including the Los Angeles Philharmonic, has shown the courage to break away from the subscription series approach to programming, which serves as a drag on creativity. Imagine weeks in which, instead of offering three or four performances of a something-for-everyone program, an orchestra would present an integrated series of individual programs that surveyed a past or living composer, a historical period or a cultural issue. Marketing departments love the subscription series, because it locks in audiences. But it may lock out and turn off potential new audiences.
The Los Angeles Philharmonic has departed somewhat from the subscription mentality with its Stravinsky festivals and other thematic programming. The orchestra also presents an extensive series of enticing contemporary-music programs with a reduced ensemble, the Los Angeles Philharmonic New Music Group.
And whatever the format, Mr. Salonen manages to come up with interesting offerings. Los Angeles music lovers, like their New York counterparts, will hear plenty of Mozart, Berlioz and Mahler this season. But they will also hear the Japanese composer Toru Takemitsu's "From Me Flows What You Call Time," with the Nexus Percussion Ensemble, butting up against Tchaikovsky's "Pathetique" Symphony. And Mr. Salonen follows the Berlioz Requiem with a program of new works by Magnus Lindberg, Liza Lim and himself.
The New York Philharmonic is trying something innovative next May, with its Charles Ives celebration, but Mr. Maazel will conduct only one of the six programs, the least adventurous. In general, whenever Mr. Maazel presents something new or recent, it almost compels him to jazz up his thinking. In June, for example, he will conduct the premiere of "Final Nightshade" by the exuberantly inventive Danish composer Poul Ruders, followed by Prokofiev's restless Violin Concerto No. 2 and Schumann's ecstatic Second Symphony.
In Los Angeles, meanwhile, the full houses for the inaugural concerts were to be expected, since the whole city was abuzz about Disney Hall, which many architecture critics have called Frank Gehry's masterpiece. Perhaps the interest will slacken with time, but I doubt it. The audience listened with palpable intensity to Mr. Adams's incandescent "Dharma at Big Sur" and to Yo-Yo Ma's impassioned playing in the fitful Cello Concerto by Lutoslawski, which is like some adversarial confrontation between unhinged cellist and orchestra. Mr. Salonen may have lost some mainstream concertgoers over the years with his adventurous programming, but he seems to have won over younger audiences who welcome new experiences.
Of course, Disney Hall enhances the act of listening. Though it seats 2,200, it seems much smaller. With sections of seats surrounding the stage on all sides, the audience feels as if it were not just hearing a performance but sitting in the midst of it.
No amount of reconstruction could turn Avery Fisher Hall into a place like Disney. Yet the New York Philharmonic has long blamed the hall's inadequate acoustics for its troubles, when the real problem is its own artistic timidity. Besides, the place has better sound than it is given credit for. You can bet that no one will be thinking about acoustics when Colin Davis brings the London Symphony to Avery Fisher in January to conduct a concert performance of Britten's stunning early opera "Peter Grimes."
Mr. Masur, during his tenure as music director, often spoke of the Philharmonic's profound obligation to the great musical masterworks. Yes, the orchestra should introduce new composers as well, he said, but given its prestige and location, the New York Philharmonic had a special responsibility to maintain high standards in the standard repertory.
During most of Mr. Masur's tenure, his views were challenged by the orchestra's executive director, Deborah Borda, who finally left in frustration to take the same post at the Los Angeles Philharmonic. It must have been bittersweet for Mr. Mehta to see his predecessor doing interviews with international media during the Disney Hall inaugural, as she rightly boasted of the orchestra's leadership role in revitalizing classical music for Los Angeles audiences.
Meanwhile, the leaders of the New York Philharmonic will have to swallow their pride and come to terms both with Avery Fisher Hall and with their Lincoln Center landlords, understandably angry after the orchestra's near-defection. But artistic leadership remains the crucial question. Will Mr. Maazel, whose contract ends in 2006, be reappointed, or will the orchestra look to a new generation of conductors? This will matter much more than any renovation project.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The interior of Disney Concert Hall. It seats 2,200 but seems smaller, and the audience feels as if it were not just hearing a performance but sitting in its midst. (Photo by Richard Barnes for The New York Times)(pg. 44) Drawing (Drawing by Robert Grossman)(pg. 39)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); POP & ROCK (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (74%); TRENDS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); MERGERS (70%) Music

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (58%); CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES DODGERS (84%) Los Angeles Symphony; Berlin Philharmonic; New York Philharmonic

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (58%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (58%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: Esa-Pekka Salonen; Simon Rattle; Lorin Maazel; Anthony Tommasini

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (96%); BERLIN, GERMANY (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



544 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2443 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY; 
From Grit to Chic to Tres Chic

BYLINE:  By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
ON a typical weekday there is a bustle of activity at Chelsea Market, which occupies the ground floor of the old manufacturing building that covers the block between Ninth and 10th Avenues and 15th and 16th Streets. Shoppers browse the food stores to the sweet smell of baked goods, while others enjoy a snack at the tables spotted at strategic corners of the irregularly shaped main-floor corridor.
 On the roof, meanwhile, invisible to the shoppers and office workers below, contractors are building a 100,000-square-foot addition to be used as studios and offices by the Food Network, which is to commence operations there about the middle of next year. 
 Diagonally across Ninth Avenue a new hotel, the Maritime, opened earlier this year in a building that once housed sailors. A couple of blocks to the south, at Ninth Avenue and 13th Street, another hotel, the Gansevoort, is under construction and scheduled to open early next year. 
Just to the west, in what was once called the meatpacking district, now the Gansevoort Market Historic District, fashion designers, restaurants and clubs are rapidly replacing meat wholesalers.
The West Chelsea and meatpacking district areas are rapidly being transformed from tired industrial and distribution centers to one of the most hip, lively areas of the city. The influx of media tenants, designers and retailers is raising rent levels and speeding the process of change. "There is something very New York about all this -- the way a neglected industrial neighborhood becomes not just a little gentrified, but suddenly a destination," said Richard Born, one of four partners who own and operate the Maritime Hotel.
Most who know the area say Chelsea Market, with its arcade of two dozen stores selling everything from meat and fish to brownies and wine, has been a key to the redevelopment. At a recent ceremony at the building -- a onetime Nabisco cookie factory -- Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff described the market as "an example of an investment that sparked the transformation" of one of the city's 400 neighborhoods.
One attraction of the market is the freshness of its products. That is because the retail stores there are in many cases offshoots of wholesale companies, whose operations supply the city's restaurants and hotels and are conducted in the back rooms of the 1.9-million-square-foot complex of buildings. 
Irwin Cohen, the principal owner and manager of the market since 1995, said another characteristic of the stores is that they are not subsidiaries of some far-distant corporation. "All the tenants are family-owned businesses, some in their second and third generation," he said.

Two Upscale Hotels
Converted Union Hall And a New Tower
The success of Chelsea Market and restaurants, boutiques and clubs in the meatpacking district persuaded the developers of the Hotel Gansevoort to proceed on what had been a parking lot, said Michael Achenbaum, president of the family company.
The retail destinations include Jeffrey, a pioneer on West 14th Street, and, more recently, flagship stores for the designers Stella McCartney and Alexander McQueen. Many of the stores, built in what had been refrigerated meat warehouses, are spare in their presentation, with only a few mannequins standing in bare, shelfless space.
But with shoppers patronizing retailers that Mr. Achenbaum's father, William, described as "minimalist stores with maximum prices," the developers decided to build the Gansevoort as an upscale hotel with nightly room rates starting at $350.
The 13-story building will have 187 guest rooms, including 20 suites starting at $575 a night and a duplex penthouse commanding $3,500 a night. The zinc-colored metal-clad building, designed by the architect Stephen B. Jacobs and the interior designer Andi Pepper, stands in sharp contrast to the low-rise, mostly brick-walled, buildings nearby.
The decision to build a tower on the irregularly shaped lot gives guests views of the city over low buildings nearby and allows for extensive outdoor restaurant and bar operations in good weather, said Michael Achenbaum. 
One signature element of the hotel will be the roof, which will include a 45-foot heated outdoor swimming pool, a garden and a loft for social events. These amenities, along with restaurants and a spa, should attract a seven-day-a-week business necessary for the economic success of the project, William Achenbaum said. "We want to be on the cutting edge to attract the sorts of people who made SoHo and TriBeCa," he said.
The association with Mr. Jacobs put the Achenbaums in touch with Henry Kallan, for whom Mr. Jacobs designed the Library Hotel and Hotel Giraffe in New York. That led to an agreement for Mr. Kallen to operate the Gansevoort, with the Achenbaums retaining ownership. "Hotels are a combination of business and real estate, not just an investment," Mr. Kallen said, with all the demands of 24-hour-a-day operation. "Developers need someone to create value in the business." 
A couple of blocks up Ninth Avenue, the most prominent feature of the Maritime Hotel, between 16th and 17th Streets, is the circular windows that dot the facade. In fact, they are portholes, part of the building since it was built in 1966 as a training center and hiring hall for the National Maritime Union.
Each of the 120 standard guest rooms is decorated to look like a cabin on a cruise liner, complete with a five-foot-diameter porthole that can open and close. The old hiring hall in the basement is occupied by two restaurants.
The property has had an up-and-down history. After the sailors departed, occupants included Covenant House, a shelter for teenage runaways, and what was described as a student services center run by the Chinese government. Today, it has been extensively renovated and is being marketed as a highly styled boutique hotel with room rates at $250 a night.
The 12-story building was purchased for $19 million in 2001 by Sean MacPherson and Eric Goode, best known as developers of restaurants and clubs. They were joined by Mr. Born and his partner, Ira Drukier, who have been hotel developers and investors.
"I had been trying to buy the property since the late 1980's," said Mr. Born, who said his earlier plans were more modest than the current project, whose total cost is about $33 million. 
He said the recent improvements in the neighborhood allowed the development of a hotel aimed, in Mr. Born's words, at the "young, hip and cool." He said the change in the area became clear while the interior of the hotel was still under construction. An outdoor plaza serving drinks and snacks was opened and attracted good crowds. "We had people walking their dogs -- it's outdoors so you can bring in dogs -- come in and have a drink."
He said the approximately 4,000 people who work in the mammoth building next door at 111 Eighth Avenue, many of them for media and graphics companies, represent almost a built-in clientele for the hotels, cafes and restaurants.
Working with an existing building represented less risk, particularly in the uncertain outlook for hotels after the Sept. 11 attack, than new construction. "I had six sites ready to go, but after 9/11, I decided to take a more conservative approach," Mr. Born said.
One of those sites was the land on which the Hotel Gansevoort is being finished. "The Achenbaums had a more swashbuckling attitude, so now they have it on a 99-year lease," Mr. Born said.
In spite of the uncertainties, Mr. Born said, the Maritime has been nearly full since its opening. "I am selling every room, every night," he said.
That has had the effect of pushing room rates from about $200 a night to about $250. "In the hotel business, when you are full you raise rates," he said. "But my partners and I didn't want to push them to $300 and lose our natural market, so we are limiting the increases."
Another newcomer to the neighborhood is Soho House, an arts-oriented private club in a converted warehouse at 29-35 Ninth Avenue in the meatpacking district. To meet city requirements, the property is classified as a hotel. Although the 24 guest rooms are usually occupied by members of the club, which is modeled after one in London, they are at least theoretically available to the public.
Although office space in the area is hardly comparable to the towers of Midtown and Lower Manhattan, demand is increasing for space on the upper floors of industrial buildings, brokers report. Rents range from the mid to high $20's per square foot annually in spaces over the old meat warehouses to the mid $30's in more developed buildings like Chelsea Market and 111 Eighth Avenue, they add.
"Clothing designers are moving into the area, and we had a law firm that specializes in working with creative people," said Jodi Roberts, an associate with CB Richard Ellis, the brokerage and services company. One noteworthy relocation is the auction house Phillips, de Pury & Luxembourg, which moved from 57th Street to 450 West 15th Street, occupying what Matthew Bergey of CB Richard Ellis said is 30,000 square feet of space.

Food Network Studio
Installing Modern Box On Aging Structures
One of thebiggest single deals in the area is the Food Network project at Chelsea Market, whose formal address is 75 Ninth Avenue. In a sense it represents a return to a building whose major theme is food.
The cable channel had originally signed a lease for 8,000 square feet in what had been a loading dock facing 10th Avenue for a studio and kitchen and 18,000 square feet in the basement for production and technical operations. But it never moved in, and the space is available for sublet.
"After much searching, Food Network came beck to Chelsea Market," said Samuel Clark III, an executive director of Cushman & Wakefield, the brokerage and services company.
He said the location was a "natural fit" for a media company since New York 1, the cable channel, and Oxygen Media, the cable television and Internet network, are already in the building.
"We wanted to consolidate in one location," said Peter Crowley, vice president for property development for Scripps Networks, which owns the Food Network along with the Home and Garden Television and Fine Living cable networks. Food Network now has a studio on 52nd Street and 10th Avenue and offices at 1180 Avenue of the Americas.
"There is a natural affinity between the market and the station, and Irwin was able to put together a program that met our needs," Mr. Crowley said. Earlier, Food Network officials had said they planned to take a camera along the central aisle of the market to photograph food preparation operations. Now, Mr. Crowley said, Mr. Cohen has promised to install cabling in the building so that cameras on the ground floor can be connected to studios on the roof.
Building the studio on the top of the old cookie factory -- the first Oreo was produced there in 1912 -- was far from simple, said Jeff J. Vandeberg, the architect for the project. Although it looks like one structure, the market is actually made up of 17 buildings built in the 1890's to the 1930's. Many are supported by wooden columns, rather than steel.
Mr. Vandeberg said the 100-foot-by-85-foot box that will contain the studio and transmission facilities was placed over an atrium between buildings. To avoid adding burdens to the wood-supported floors below, the addition is built on a truss that spreads the loads to the two-foot-thick brick walls of the buildings. "It was not easy to put a modern box on this old structure," Mr. Vandeberg said. "It was an intricate job of weaving the old plus the new."

111 Eighth Avenue
An Influx of Offices In a Hulking Structure
Food Network is not the only media company moving into the neighborhood. DoubleClick, the Internet advertising and monitoring company, has leased 76,000 square feet on the 10th floor at 111 Eighth Avenue, a onetime Port Authority building. The company, which downsized after the dot-com debacle, is leaving space at 450 West 33rd Street.
And Deutsch Advertising is increasing the amount of space it occupies in the building to 130,000 square feet from 110,000.
Paul E. Pariser, a partner in Taconic Investment Partners, which owns the 2.9-million-square-foot building, said it had made an almost complete transition from industrial uses to offices since Taconic became only the third owner in January 1998. "We have had an 80 percent turnover of tenants since taking over," he said.
Although telecommunications tenants, which use most of their space for electronic equipment, occupy 35 percent of the space in the hulking structure, the amenities of the area are attracting more human tenants. "Chelsea Market is a tremendous amenity for us," Mr. Pariser said. Banana Republic now occupies two floors in the building rather then the single floor it had when it opened, "and there is a Starbucks at 15th Street and Ninth Avenue." 
The "gentrification of 14th Street," he said, has resulted in a connection between West Chelsea and the long established community in western Greenwich Village.
The success of the clothing store Jeffrey, which opened in the summer of 1999 in an old moving and storage building at the western end of 14th Street, began attracting retailers to an area dominated by refrigerated warehouses and roll-up metal gates, said Andrew S. Goldberg, an executive vice president of CB Richard Ellis.
"Retail was the last to get here, after the restaurants and clubs started drawing people both day and night," he said. The rents in the area were lower than SoHo, he said, where space on side streets are typically $60 to $200 a square foot annually, while they can hit $300 a square foot on streets like Spring and Prince.
Michael Achenbaum said ground floor rents in the meatpacking district were typically $10 to $15 a square foot before the influx from the outside. Now they are $60 to $100 a square foot, he said.
Mr. Goldberg agreed that rents for retail space have been rising in the area, even though they are still generally lower than SoHo. "Post-Jeffrey rents were in the $20 to $30 range, and they quickly doubled to $40 to $60 a square foot," he said. "Now they are at about $80 a square foot on West 14th Street and the most recent deals have been approaching $100 a square foot."
Unlike SoHo, the meatpacking district is unlikely to change completely, Mr. Goldberg said. For one thing, he said, some meat wholesalers own their buildings and so they will not be driven out by rising rents if they choose to stay.
And the location tends to favor some continued industrial use. "It is so close to the West Side Highway," Mr. Goldberg said, "that there will probably be something of a wholesale component in the area."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Round windows are a distinctive feature of the Maritime Hotel on Ninth Avenue. The 13-story Hotel Gansevoort is being developed by Michael Achenbaum and will be run by Henry Kallan, far right. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times); (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Food Network studio is a 100-by-85-foot box being built over an atrium between buildings at Chelsea Market. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. 4) Map of Manhattan Eight Avenue and surrounding areas. (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); WHOLESALERS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); BAKED GOODS (77%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (75%); FASHION & APPAREL (72%); CITIES (72%); MEAT WHOLESALERS (71%); FAMILY COMPANIES (70%); FASHION DESIGN (67%); FASHION DESIGNERS (67%) Geographic Profiles

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (56%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%)

PERSON: John Holusha

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



545 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: WASHINGTON HEIGHTS -- CITYPEOPLE; 
Why They Take the A Train (and the 1/9)

BYLINE:  By NIKKI WALLER

 BODY:
DAVID Perez spends his workday on a padded stool in Elevator 108 in the 181st Street 1/9 subway stop in Washington Heights. He sits scootched back into his seat, so that his feet, in heavy black work shoes with blue gel insoles, don't quite touch the ground. 
 In this stifling, windowless, freezer-sized compartment, Mr. Perez ferries riders between the station entrance and the subway platform 12 stories below. He doesn't mind that life, in the form of 5,000 passengers every morning, passes him by. 
 "They're coming to visit me," said Mr. Perez, letting loose a throaty cascade of belly laughs that most people who pass through this station recognize as the David Perez Sound. The sound is even more famous than the tropical dance music he plays for riders every morning. 
 When Mr. Perez started this job 11 years ago, he admitted, "I didn't like it here. I felt isolated. Tamed." The doors slid open to admit more passengers, and he interrupted his story with a burst of greetings in English and Spanish to welcome his new cargo. 
 Topography is destiny in Washington Heights, where the 1/9 line is as much as 19 stories below street level (at the 191st Street stop). Ever since the subway tunnels were built, riders here have used elevators to get to and from the platform. And for nearly three decades, operators like Mr. Perez have worked in these elevators, pushing buttons and chaperoning loads of passengers.
 But when New York City Transit released its 2004 budget over the summer, it announced plans to eliminate 22 elevator operator positions -- nearly two thirds of the positions in the five deep stations in Washington Heights -- leaving only one full-time operator in each station. The agency says these workers will not be laid off, nor will riders face service cuts, as nearly all the elevators will run unmanned. 
 The proposed changes have led to angry protests and emotional pleas from subway riders in the neighborhood and beyond, who say cutting these positions will result in muggings, long lines and fights among passengers. Residents also argue that removing these operators will destroy a small patch of sanctuary, a warm, familiar human presence in an increasingly robotic transit system.
 The Elevate the Heights Coalition, the umbrella group protesting the changes, will sponsor several events during the next few weeks, including an appearance tomorrow at a City Council hearing uptown and a march in the neighborhood next month. The transit agency declined to comment directly on the community's actions, but Paul Fleuranges, an agency spokesman, said, "We believe that people in Washington Heights can operate elevators on their own, as riders do at other stations throughout the system."
 An elevator ride may seem like a brief, forgettable interlude -- the platform-to-station trip lasts fewer than 30 seconds -- but riders who use Washington Heights' five deep stations (at 168th, 181st and 191st Street on the 1/9 line and 181st and 190th Street on the A line) relish their little journeys. Elizabeth Lorris Ritter, the leader of the campaign to keep the operators, describes the few seconds of company, music and chitchat as a "wee oasis of civilization" that lifts the spirits of the thousands of people who use the elevators each day. 
 "In a subtle way, it changes the world," said Ms. Lorris Ritter, who has lived in Washington Heights for 20 years. "If 50,000 people pass through and go to work in a good mood, it's better than 50,000 people showing up to work in a foul mood."
 In Elevator 108, Mr. Perez's riders are treated to calypso, merengue or traditional upbeat Cuban son pulsing from a battery-powered CD player that he won with points from Foxwoods Casino. The breezy music livens the dank, fluorescent-lighted elevator car, so much so that on occasion a dour-faced occupant will execute a brief tap or samba step on the way out. 
 Other operators play classic jazz, or vintage R&B. Yvette Boatwright, an operator at 168th Street, plays gospel compilations during the evening rush hour; the other day, a hotel laundry worker named Antony Castillo waited 15 minutes to ride in the car with the gospel music. 
 For extroverted operators like Simone, who goes by the nickname Monie Love and works three shifts a week at 168th Street, a certain glamour accompanies the work. In fact, after more than 16 years on the job, the wisecracking operator with the talking Bart Simpson watch has become something of a celebrity. "My sister refuses to go places with me anymore," she said, "because we run into too many people who know me from the elevator." 
 Last year, on a trip to Disney World, she heard a woman yelling "Hey! Elevator!" Turning, she saw one of her regular passengers running toward her, right there in the middle of the Magic Kingdom. 
 Simone, who grew up in the neighborhood, knows many of the school-age children who come through the elevator because she used to baby-sit for them. She also sees old friends in the elevator. "One of my school chums comes through every day," she said. "That's how we stay in touch, through work." 
 PEOPLE at the A train stop at 181st Street still talk about Bruce Renfroe, who featured jazz greats both on the tape deck and on the walls, where he hung photos of Dizzy Gillespie and Louis Armstrong next to pictures of local residents until the M.T.A. ordered them removed.
 Ms. Lorris Ritter remembers when 300 people staged noisy protests in 2000 over that issue. "It wasn't a protest about AIDS, economic development, domestic violence," she said. "It was 300 people demonstrating for portraits of jazz greats, house pets and pictures of their neighbors." 
 Most of the operators are maintenance and cleaning workers who suffered injuries that left them unable to perform their original tasks. Neither the operators nor spokesmen for New York City Transit know exactly when the new plan will go into effect, but Mr. Fleuranges predicts the changes will take effect early next year.
 On a recent Monday morning, as passengers were shuffling into Elevator 109, the doors of the adjacent car opened, and Mr. Perez's rumbling laughter filled the hallway as he urged his charges to "pase un buen dia." As the doors of No. 109 were about to close, five people darted out and ran to Mr. Perez's elevator. He wasn't surprised.
 "When people waiting see the others come out laughing and happy," Mr. Perez said, "they run over, they say, 'That's David's elevator."'

CORRECTION-DATE: November 30, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in the Neighborhood Report pages last Sunday about plans to reduce the number of elevator operators in five subway stations in Washington Heights misstated the role of Elizabeth Lorris Ritter, a critic of the proposal. She a leader of the campaign to keep the operators, not the sole leader.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yvette Boatwright plays gospel in Elevator 110 at the 181st Street station. Jobs like hers may be eliminated, to the dismay of riders who find their elevator journeys a high point of the day. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); BUDGETS (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); SPONSORSHIP (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (64%); CITIES (64%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); MUSIC (54%) Transit Systems; Elevators and Escalators; Subways; Labor

ORGANIZATION: New York City Transit Authority

PERSON: Nikki Waller

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



546 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: COPING; 
Cameras Love Neighborhoods. The Feeling's Rarely Mutual.

BYLINE:  By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS; E-mail: amh@nytimes.com

 BODY:
CHARLOTTE DEWALD had grown fond of the tree outside her Greenwich Village window, even though she didn't know what kind it was. Then one fall day, she looked out the window in silent greeting, only to discover that every leaf had been plucked off. A film crew, shooting "The Out-of-Towners," with Goldie Hawn, had stripped the tree, apparently to simulate winter. When Ms. Dewald complained, she was told that the Parks Department had granted permission for the denuding. 
 "I'll never watch that movie," Ms. Dewald said the other day. "I was so infuriated." 
 Commerce Street, where Ms. Dewald lives in an 1838 Greek Revival house, is almost a perpetual film set, as are many surrounding streets. Ms. Dewald, an architect, understands why. But she knows from bitter firsthand experience that some film crews act as if they have a license -- a city permit, one might say -- to be inconsiderate.
 In the first six months of this year, filming for movies, commercials, television and other entertainment, often employing freelance labor, increased 36 percent in New York City over the same period in 2002, despite stiff competition from Toronto, according to the Mayor's Office of Film, Theater and Broadcasting. Not illogically, the frustration level of New Yorkers rose commensurately.
 So perhaps it shouldn't have come as a surprise early this month when the mayor's film office declared that Dumbo in Brooklyn, with its spectacular waterfront views and gritty warehouse-lined streets, was an official film-shoot "hot spot." Fearing that the tolerance of residents for further filming was being taxed to the limit, the agency also granted Dumbo a three-to-four-month waiver from film shoots. The waiver takes effect next month, after current productions have wound up. 
 The notion of a "respite," first reported on Nov. 5 in The New York Post, came as quite a surprise to New Yorkers in other neighborhoods. They had never heard of a respite. Now, having heard of it, some of them felt that they were at least as deserving as the people in Dumbo. They, too, had experienced the less glamorous side of the movie industry, such as the extra 45 minutes needed to find a parking space when film-crew members have taken up entire blocks for their cars.
 Julianne Cho, a spokeswoman for the city's film office, insisted that the concept of hot spots and respites was not new at all; it has been part of city policy for five years. But contrary to what some people may think, you won't win a respite by complaining. "That's not the impetus," she said. "We certainly can't make policy based on that."
 How many movies make a hot spot? The film office doesn't actually keep a database of filming locations, although it's working on it. The basis for a respite, Ms. Cho said, is "more anecdotal." The impetus comes from the film office itself, as it tries to balance the interests of residents, production crews and of course the city's economy.
 Like prosecutors building a case, the Greenwich Village Block Associations, a coalition of 33 block associations, has been compiling a "film shoot report card" that can be found on the group's Web site. A Tums commercial, filmed Oct. 10, filled Commerce Street with the stench of frying sausage, residents said. The report card characterizes "Law and Order" as a "cheapskate production company, known for attitude and not contributing to community groups."
 Audrey Davis, of the Lippin Group, which does public relations for "Law and Order," said she found that hard to believe. "The city's one of the stars of show," she added, "and why would they do anything to offend it?" The mayor's film office said that far from being cheap, "Law and Order" was a major contributor to organizations like the Central Park Conservancy, the city schools and the March of Dimes.
 But people like Marilyn Dorato, head of the Village block associations, think the local block association deserves compensation, too. Some people may think that paying block associations for filming is a little like bribery. Ms. Dorato thinks of it as rent to the people who keep the block looking camera-ready.
 On Nov. 1, the mayor's film office put parts of the Village on the hot-spot list, and negotiations are under way as to what comes next. The activists recognize that if there are too many respites, the city's film industry could unravel.
 So they don't want a respite, Ms. Dorato said, just to be treated like a neighborhood as opposed to a stage set, a place where the leaves stay on the trees until nature tells them that it's time for them to fall off.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lisa Haney) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); MOVIE FILMING (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (72%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (67%) Motion Pictures; Television; Motion Pictures

ORGANIZATION: Film, Theater and Broadcasting, Office of (NYC)

PERSON: Anemona Hartocollis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; Dumbo (NYC) 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



547 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Environmental Calculus; 
Counting the Costs of Growth With a Forest of Formulas

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
IF the land-use planning process ever becomes a Saturday morning cartoon show (perhaps C-Span would be interested), the role of Suburban Sprawl would undoubtedly be played by somebody like the villainous Snidely Whiplash, facing off against the virtuous hero, Open Space, played by Dudley Do-Right.
 That is increasingly how voters see the subject, anyway. Over the last five years they have approved more than $23 billion in public money across the country to preserve land from development, according to Trust for Public Land, a conservation group. 
 New Jersey, considered the national leader, has committed $1.9 billion all by itself. On Election Day this month it became the first state with a taxpayer-financed anti-sprawl program in every county. Of 78 conservation measures on the ballot across the nation, 64 passed. 
The argument that led to those votes is as simple as any melodrama: Open space and sprawl are antithetical, mutually exclusive choices. Black hat or white hat. Hiss or hurray. The more you have of one, the less you have of the other. 
Politicians and policy makers say the proof is in the numbers. The land acquisition process is awash in computer models and analytic tools that can pinpoint everything from the water runoff if a piece of land is paved over to the tax and traffic implications of turning a farm into a subdivision. And while much of the data seems to support the preservationist cause, some environmentalists worry that an over-reliance on calculation can erase the visceral and emotional appeal that animates conservation in the first place. There's a deep and desirable fuzziness to thinking about nature, they say, that can't be factored in.
But the tools, many admit, are handy.
Farm and forest advocates, for example, have developed methods for showing how much a stand of trees or a working vegetable patch contributes to a community. The perceived value of urban green belts has soared as researchers have measured the impact that trees can have in moderating temperatures and reducing energy use. Cost-benefit analysis is increasingly used, especially on the federal level, to assign dollar values to things like fish species, to better gauge what price society should pay, or not, to save them.
Some critics of nature-by-numbers say that formulas are a crutch for decision makers to avoid the responsibility and consequences of human choice. Others say that assigning values or measuring outcomes is inherently unreliable because numbers, as the last few years of Wall Street history have shown, can always be manipulated.
"There are lots of people who love the numbers and lots who hate them, too -- the dust hasn't settled on that debate," said Lisa Heinzerling, a professor of law at Georgetown University and a specialist in environmental law. 
Many conservation groups putting forth formulas for land use are convinced that making computer models accessible to local elected officials is good for preservation.
American Forests, for example, a nonprofit conservation group based in Washington, has developed software for measuring the value of forests, and the calculations generally show that preserving them makes economic sense. The increased costs of controlling water runoff alone, said Gary Moll, a vice president of the group's urban forests center, can more than justify preservation.
Mr. Moll said the computer model, which American Forests sells for $800, is aimed only at giving officials more information. 
"We're just trying to use what scientists and engineers say are the best formulas, and put it in the hands of people who make decisions," he said. 
Other experts say that assigning a dollar value to everything in nature becomes absurd pretty quickly -- or at least darn hard to prove. People have tried, for instance, to measure the worth of everything from humpback whales -- about $18 billion by one count, including their contribution to biodiversity and aesthetics -- to the sum of nature itself. One study in 1997 said that the world's rivers and lakes generated precisely $1.7 trillion a year in value.
"It's a really distorted lens," said Frank Ackerman, an environmental economist and research director of the Global Development and Environment Institute at Tufts University. It can also backfire on preservationists, he said. The Bush administration, for example, has recalculated equations used during the Clinton years and concluded that some environmental regulations are less beneficial or more costly than the Democrats had said.
But numbers, in the end, are still just that. The emotional and spiritual pull of the wide open spaces gets lost in translation whichever side wins.
Some believers in the private market say the whole argument that government should fight sprawl through land-preservation is flawed because government itself, they say, is the villain in fostering sprawl in the first place. Costly environmental regulations, they say, induce private owners to sell or develop their properties, while estate taxes have forced families to sell farms or other land assets after a death in the family.
"What we need to be doing is finding ways to keep these lands in private hands," said R. J. Smith, the director of the Center for Private Conservation, a nonprofit foundation based in Washington that supports market-based environmental protection. "The worst way to get rational long-term management of our natural resources is to turn it over to the government." 
Many local communities, meanwhile, are trying to find a path between the extremes of head and heart. 
In Voorhees Township, N.J., for example, where voters approved a referendum this month for a $550,000-a-year land-buying plan, the town Environmental Commission created a point system to rank the best potential purchases. But a survey paid for by the Trust for Public Land before the election also helped leaders embrace the softer side -- what residents said they wanted. The survey helped steer the plan toward water quality and farmland conservation.
It is perhaps a measure of the built-up nature in places like Voorhees, near Philadelphia, that the No. 1 item on the wish list is the preservation of a golf course. The current owner has announced plans to build up to 206 homes there. The town wants to buy the course, operate it and use the fees to help defray the costs of preserving it. 
A wild and scenic wilderness it's not, said the mayor, Harry A. Platt. No would-be John Muir will ever rhapsodize about the 17th green. But it will definitely have a clear-cut and measurable outcome, he said: No need for additional sewer lines and no more cars on the town's crowded roads.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: "Nature by Numbers"Environmentalists and city planners are finding ever-more sophisticated ways to determine the costs of sprawl. Satellite imagery, computer modeling and statistical analysis are among the many tools used. Following is a simplified example of how high-tech land-use analysis works. What Is the Effect of Sprawl? A Case Scenario1.) As the area around Charlotte, N.C., has expanded, residents have become increasingly concerned about the effect of sprawl on the local environment. 2.) A local nonprofit environmental group, Voices and Choices, sought in particular to determine the impact of development on water and air quality in a watershed north of the city. 3.) A 2002 engineering report, prepared for the Mecklenburg County Storm Water Services department, described the McDowell Creek watershed as being "not as highly developed as some of the other sections of Mecklenburg County," but that rapid development is visible "virtually everywhere" and that conditions will "soon resemble those in other highly developed sections of the county." Taking Pictures, Building Models4.) Voices and Choices turned to American Forests, a Washington-based advocacy group, to analyze the watershed. A high-resolution satellite photograph of the area provides the foundation for computer modeling. 5.) A computer program is used to analyze the satellite image and break it down into basic units of ground cover: trees, developed or paved areas, crop land, etc. These areas are then tinted to distinguish them. TREE CANOPYGRASS/BRUSHCROP LANDWATERDEVELOPED AREAS 6.) Formulas from various government agencies are bundled together by American Forests as a package called CityGreen. A mapping program applies the CityGreen formulas to determine how the various types of ground cover affect the environment. A report estimates the costs and savings of developing -- or not. STORM WATER -- Variations in slope, soil concentration and ground cover are used to determine how much rain water enters city sewer systems. CARBON STORAGE -- The amount of tree coverage and other biomass is used to determine how much carbon is isolated and stored. AIR POLLUTION REMOVAL -- The ratio of trees and other biomass to developed area determines how much pollution is absorbed. (Sources by American Forests; Mecklenburg County Storm Water Services) Map of North Carolina highlighting the McDowell Creek watershed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (91%); SUBURBS (90%); TRENDS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); APPROVALS (76%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (75%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); REFERENDUMS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (70%); FISHES (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Suburbs; land use policies; Computers and the Internet; Computer Software

ORGANIZATION: TRUST FOR PUBLIC LAND (57%) American Forests (Orgn)

PERSON: Kirk Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



548 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: The World: Car Culture; 
Like the U.S., China Favors Fuel Standards, Not Taxes

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
TO slow the swift rise in its consumption of oil, China could follow the European model: raise gasoline taxes.
 Instead, China has chosen the American model. It plans to impose limits on new cars' fuel consumption. Although China's standards will be stricter than the American ones, it is unclear whether they will come close to matching Europe's success in reducing consumption, and thus dependence on foreign oil. 
 Improving the gas mileage of new cars reduces fuel consumption, but it does so slowly, because people have to buy new cars to make gains in fuel efficiency.
The United States has had 25 years of fuel-economy regulations but relatively low gasoline prices. Today, new vehicles average about 20 miles per gallon, the lowest level since 1980. (It doesn't help that the American standards have risen only slightly since 1985, and that consumers are now buying more minivans and sport utility vehicles, for which the United States has imposed lower standards.)
In Europe, where gasoline now costs more than $4 a gallon, the cars, mostly small, achieve an average of close to 35 miles per gallon. Europe has done this largely without fuel-economy standards, which weren't imposed on automakers until 1998, when gas mileage was already close to 30 miles per gallon. Higher gasoline prices affect motorists in old and new cars alike. They also encourage drivers to purchase fuel-sipping models instead of land barges.
It's no surprise, then, that environmentalists, economists and auto executives virtually all agree that the European model is more effective than the American model in reducing demand.
In China, a booming economy has pushed up oil demand so quickly that its consumption is expected to surpass Japan's next year, as it becomes the world's second-largest oil importer, after the United States. Gas and diesel prices are identical to American prices, although they are higher as a percentage of income in China. Government officials say they are still studying when and how to raise them through taxes.
But China is setting more ambitious fuel-economy standards than the United States, especially for sport utility vehicles and minivans. In addition to conserving oil, China wants to force multinational companies to transfer the latest, fuel-efficient engine technology to joint ventures with Chinese automakers.
The decision says a lot about how public opinion counts in China, despite the Communist Party's continued monopoly on political power.
Zhang Jianwei, the vice president and top technical officer of the Chinese agency that writes vehicle regulations, said that higher fuel taxes could hurt peasants, who need gasoline and diesel for tractors and fishing boats. While the government still wants to raise its low fuel taxes, it must figure out a way to distribute the new revenues in a way that will impress farmers as fair.
"We have to find a way to return the tax to the peasants," he said.
Chinese environmental experts say that the government is also afraid of another politically powerful constituency: city taxi drivers. Less than 1 percent of the Chinese population owns cars, and middle-class urban families rely heavily on cabs. Beijing alone has an estimated 80,000 taxi drivers.
Taxi drivers have threatened to quit in large numbers if fuel taxes are raised, said Shao Min, the deputy dean of the college of environmental sciences at Beijing University. 
PARADOXICALLY, the Chinese government has to look no further than Hong Kong for the European model in energy conservation. In the 1930's, British colonial administrators, caring little about public opinion, began imposing steep taxes, just like Western European countries. Automobiles were seen as playthings of the rich, and there was no domestic oil industry to lobby against such taxes.
Europeans and Hong Kong residents have been accustomed to high gasoline prices ever since. In Hong Kong, gasoline costs more here than anywhere else in the world -- $5 a gallon -- according to a World Bank calculation that excluded temporary price gouging in war areas. Special sales taxes in Hong Kong also double the price of a new economy car and more than double the price of a luxury car.
Financed by all those taxes, Hong Kong has a superb mass transit system and 12 times as many people as cars, despite having roughly the same income per person as Germany. (Granted, Germany is less densely populated.) 
In the United States, there are now more cars than licensed drivers. And consumers in China seem increasingly like Americans in their attitudes toward cars, disliking even car pools.
"People here are exactly like in the United States," said Bernd Leissner, the president of Volkswagen Asia-Pacific, the largest foreign automaker in China, in an interview earlier this year in Beijing. "They want to be independent. If you look on the highways, they are all driving alone. It's stupid, but they do it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: China wants to reduce fuel consumption on its new cars. But its drivers have the power to say how. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY CONSUMPTION (91%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); GASOLINE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); DIESEL FUEL (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); MARINE VESSELS (64%); POLITICS (64%) Automobiles; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Fuel Efficiency; Taxation; Automobiles

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (79%); HONG KONG (79%) China; Europe

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



549 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Croatian Nationalists Poised For a Comeback in Elections 

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS WOOD

DATELINE: SPLIT, Croatia, Nov. 22 

 BODY:
Croatia's former governing party, ousted almost four years ago in disgrace over allegations of corruption and its hard-line nationalist policies, is making a comeback and is favored to win parliamentary elections here on Sunday.
 Opinion polls predicted that the party, the Croatian Democratic Union, would win the largest number of seats in the first legislative elections in four years. The party was founded by Franjo Tudjman, the country's former president, who died four years ago. 
 While no group is expected to gain an absolute majority, and the winner may have to form a coalition government, victory for the nationalist party would be a remarkable change in its political fortunes. 
The party governed the country for nine years, from Croatia's declaration of independence from Yugoslavia in 1991, through two wars, first against Croatian-Serbian rebels backed by Serbia and then against Serbs and Muslims in Bosnia.
The conflict in Croatia, and the hard-line policies that favored ethnic Croats, prompted an estimated 280,000 Serbs to flee the country. As the party held on to power after the wars ended in 1995, accusations of cronyism, rights abuses and tight control of the news mounted, culminating in the party's resounding defeat in elections in January 2000.
But now a new leader claims to have abandoned the nationalist heritage of the party, known as H.D.Z., its initials in the Croatian language, and transformed it into a center-right grouping, one with a decidedly pro-American stance and with a goal of helping Croatia join NATO and the European Union within the next two to three years. 
"There is no room for any radicalism in this party," said Ivo Sanader, who has a Ph.D. and could become the next prime minister. "We have tried to convince the international community that this is a new H.D.Z., committed to human rights, to democracy, to the rule of law, minority rights and philosophy of the free market economy." 
The election pits Mr. Sanader's party against the center-left coalition government of five parties, led by Prime Minister Ivica Racan. Dogged by infighting, his administration has been accused by critics of failing to pursue the reforms it promised when elected in 2000.
The period leading up to Sunday's elections has at times appeared more like an outdoor festival than a political campaign. Parties have sought support by putting on rock concerts and handing out free food.
At its final election rally, in this Adriatic port, traditionally a center of strong support, the party sought to put its nationalist past aside.
Portraits of former President Tudjman, once standard at all the party's gatherings, were hardly anywhere to be seen. 
The apparent image change is the culmination of two years' effort by Mr. Sanader to reinvent the party, even in some cases expelling extremists, some of whom were implicated in war crimes committed against Serbs in the 1990's wars.
Abroad, Mr. Sanader has forged ties with center-right politicians like the Austrian chancellor, Wolfgang Schussel, and the Bavarian premier, Edmund Stoiber. Mr. Sanader's team appears determined to form closer ties with the United States. 
He also indicated a readiness to sign an agreement with the United States forbidding the extradition of American citizens to an international criminal court.
"I understand the American position is that anyone who has committed war crimes should be responsible before American justice and not international," Mr. Sanader said. "We understand much more the position of this administration than the current government" of Croatia. 
Party officials refuse to say how they would cooperate with the war crimes tribunal in The Hague, which is demanding that Croatia hand over a former police general, Ante Gotovina, who is accused of committing war crimes against Serbs. 
The government, under pressure from nationalists, has said it is unaware of General Gotovina's whereabouts. The lack of progress toward his arrest is a source of increasing friction with the European Union, which is linking Croatia's progress toward membership to its cooperation with the court in The Hague. 
Leaders of Croatia's remaining Serbs have pointed to the Croatian Democratic Union's new determination to join the European Union and strengthen trans-Atlantic ties as something of an assurance that there will be no return to past policies of persecution and discrimination.
Milorad Pupovac, leader of the Serbian National Council, said the present government was "not decisive enough" in pursuing change. Mr. Pupovac added that the Croatian Democratic Union was "the party that is related to the experience of war, to corruption and ethnic cleansing," and that it remained to be seen how genuinely it had changed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); ETHICS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); FESTIVALS (60%); RELIGION (53%); POP & ROCK (50%) Public Opinion; Elections; Legislatures and Parliaments; United States International Relations; Ethics

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%) North Atlantic Treaty Organization; European Union

PERSON: Nicholas Wood; Ivo (Prime Min) Sanader; Ivica (Prime Min) Racan

GEOGRAPHIC: CROATIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SERBIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%) Croatia; Croatia

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



550 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: After 200 Years of Growth, Level of Methane Stabilizes 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
After a 200-year rise driven mainly by human activities, atmospheric levels of methane, the second most important greenhouse gas, have stopped growing, scientists are reporting. Climate experts said the stabilization of methane, though probably temporary, is important evidence that steps to curb emissions could slow global warming even as disputes persist over what to do about carbon dioxide, the dominant greenhouse gas.
 "This is a big deal," said Dr. James A. Hansen, a climate scientist at NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies who has highlighted the importance of methane as a heat-trapping gas for years. 
 It is clearer than ever that "methane presents an opportunity for a global warming success story," he said. "We could get it to stop increasing and even decrease somewhat, mostly with actions that make sense for other reasons." Such actions could include stanching leaks in pipelines or capturing gas released during mining or oil drilling.
The side benefits would include improved air quality, he and other experts said. Methane not only warms the atmosphere but also contributes to the formation of ozone, an ingredient of smog. 
Actions to cut methane emissions would also produce far quicker results than measures to curb carbon dioxide. Once released, methane, the main component in natural gas, remains in the atmosphere for only 8 to 10 years before it breaks down. Carbon dioxide, which is released every time a fossil fuel or forest is burned, can last a century and has been accumulating steadily in the air.
The American and Dutch researchers who measured the change in methane levels said they found evidence that human actions, while not aimed at stemming climate change, appeared to be the cause -- specifically the near shutdown of oil and gas extraction after the disintegration of the Soviet Union. 
Old production methods released vast streams of the gas from leaking pipelines, uncapped wells and the like. Newer, less leaky methods are slowly being adopted now.
Some climate experts had already noted that emissions of methane were more variable, and perhaps more controllable, than those of carbon dioxide. But this is the first time that scientists have found a sustained plateau in methane concentrations, from 1999 to 2002. A global analysis has not been completed for 2003.
The new analysis, described in the current issue of Geophysical Research Letters, is by the Commerce Department's Climate Monitoring and Diagnostics Laboratory in Boulder, Colo., and the National Institute for Space Research of the Netherlands. 
Dr. Hansen said it was premature to point to a particular reason for the change because methane has so many sources. About 70 percent comes from human activities -- with most from fossil-fuel extraction. But methane also comes from sources as varied as the digestive tract of cattle and termites, wetlands, rice paddies and garbage dumps.
The scientists collected measurements of methane in the air taken at 43 monitoring stations around the world and compared them with a European database of records kept on emissions from various sources. 
By examining regional difference in methane concentrations, they found the plateau appeared to result mainly from a sharp drop in emissions in 1991 and 1992 in latitudes north of 50 degrees -- a region dominated by Russia and Canada. 
Other evidence, they said, pointed more precisely to Russia, including measurements taken at Canada's Alert military base -- the northernmost inhabited spot on Earth -- that tracked air masses drifting directly from Siberia.
The drop in methane levels there appears to have more than compensated for a rise in emissions from Asia, said Dr. Edward J. Dlugokencky, the lead author of the study and a scientist at the Boulder laboratory. 
"If we hadn't had decreases in the former Soviet Union, we wouldn't have seen methane flat for the last four years," he said. 
Some scientists concurred with that conclusion, but other experts on methane, though agreeing a plateau had been reached, said they were not yet convinced that the Russian downturn in emissions was the reason. 
"Methane is an incredibly messy problem," said Dr. Inez Y. Fung, the director of the atmospheric sciences center at the University of California at Berkeley. She said its level varies not only as sources shrink or grow, but also because it is destroyed at changing rates -- depending on other substances, including other pollution, in the air. 
And, she added, the estimates of emissions from various sources, particularly nonindustrial ones like rice cultivation, are extremely rough. 
She said an untapped source of evidence that could show the link to Russian gas fields could be satellite images of the world at night. Flares on oil rigs destroy only a portion of the methane and could reveal overall activity, and leakage, in such areas, she said. 
The biggest question now is whether methane will resume the climb that has more than doubled its concentration since the start of the industrial revolution. 
Dr. Dlugokencky said that all depends on how assertively countries and companies work to stem emissions -- noting that human behavior is the most uncertain factor of all.
Prof. Jesse H. Ausubel, the director of Program for the Human Environment at Rockefeller University in Manhattan, said that particularly now that natural gas has become a valuable commodity there are strong economic incentives to stop leaks. 
"This is better than a no regrets action," he said. "This should be a case where, with little outlay, people can actually win an economic benefit."

GRAPHIC: Photo: One source of methane is oil fields. The gas may be burned in flares, like this one on a Red Sea rig, but much of it enters the atmosphere. (Photo by Andrew C. Revkin/The New York Times) Chart: "Methane in the Air"The amount of methane in the atmosphere has risen sharply in the last century. Graph tracks amount of methane in the atmosphere since 1700. (Source by Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center, U.S. Department of Energy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); METHANE (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); SPACE EXPLORATION (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); SMOG (78%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (73%); OIL EXTRACTION (73%); AIR QUALITY INSTRUMENTS (72%); POLLUTION MONITORING (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%); LANDFILLS (50%); WETLANDS (50%) Weather; Methane; Global Warming; Carbon Dioxide; Weather

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (59%)

PERSON: Andrew C Revkin

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (87%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



551 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Defense Portrays Different Sides of Sniper Suspect 

BYLINE:  By ADAM LIPTAK

DATELINE: CHESAPEAKE, Va., Nov. 21 

 BODY:
Lee Malvo learned to shoot, his lawyers say, by playing "very realistic and gory" video games given him by John A. Muhammad.
 "If you get hit," Craig S. Cooley, one of Mr. Malvo's lawyers, said in his opening statement at Mr. Malvo's capital murder trial here for his role in the Washington-area sniper shootings, "you bleed and you die, unless you hit a particular code, and most of these games have a code where you become invincible, where you become immortal." 
 "Game players call it the God mode," he continued. "When you punch that in on some of those games, it says, 'I am God.' " 
The snipers, as it happened, used code words to communicate with the authorities in October 2002, the lead prosecutor in the case, Robert F. Horan Jr., told the same jury.
"For you, Mr. Police," the notes and phone messages all said. "Call me God."
That Mr. Cooley should have thought his anecdote a helpful one illustrates the fine line the defense means to walk, simultaneously acknowledging Mr. Malvo's complicity in the shootings and insisting that he was brainwashed by Mr. Muhammad. Mr. Muhammad, 42, was convicted of capital murder this week. A jury will resume deliberations Monday on whether to sentence him to death.
But the story also illuminates the contradictions within Mr. Malvo. He was by all accounts a very poor, sheltered, sweet and obedient young man, who after three years with Mr. Muhammad was capable of making admissions to the authorities worthy of "In Cold Blood."
He was a teenager who liked to play video games, and he was a young man who bragged about the people he killed by shots to the head from his Bushmaster rifle.
The detectives and the prison guards he spoke to last year said he was cheerful, polite and very candid, and two sets of audiotapes played for the jury seem to confirm that.
His lawyers insist that it was his obedient nature and search for a father figure that made Mr. Malvo, now 18, a particularly good candidate for training in terror and murder.
They will start to make their case to a jury here on Monday, through witnesses who knew Mr. Malvo as a child in Jamaica and Antigua and others who saw him under Mr. Muhammad's tutelage in the United States. The defense will also present a number of mental health experts, who will say that Mr. Malvo received such a severe indoctrination that his state of mind amounted to insanity.
Even if that defense does not result in acquittal, it may well give the jury a reason to spare Mr. Malvo's life in a separate penalty phase.
To this day, his lawyers say, Mr. Malvo remains under Mr. Muhammad's sway. "The separation process is continuing," Mr. Cooley said in an interview, "and I suspect it will continue for some time."
Mr. Horan, the lead prosecutor, said during jury selection that he had little use for "the mental health crowd."
He told the jury in his opening statement that it should take Mr. Malvo's words at face value and convict him. "You need two to do it, a spotter and you need a shooter," he said, describing Mr. Malvo's statements. "He told the police both jobs are equally important."
"Does that sound like the utterings of an insane man?" Mr. Horan asked the jury.
Mr. Malvo's apparent confessions, taped on Nov. 7, 2002, were, his lawyers say, part of the indoctrination.
"He was programmed as to what to say to the enemy if he was caught," Mr. Cooley said. "He was to self-destruct."
The voice on the tapes is by turns jocular and analytic. Mr. Malvo expresses regret only that he did not succeed in killing everyone he shot and that he was caught. 
Offered small blandishments by the detective, he said, "The art of negotiation is good."
Mr. Muhammad was, everyone says, an attentive parent in many ways, to his own children as well as to Mr. Malvo. A 10-year military veteran, he provided Mr. Malvo with an education, although it was one rooted in grievance and paramilitary tactics.
"We had a strategy from the beginning," Mr. Malvo said on one tape. "You keep your enemy fortified. You stretch them out and make them weak."
He clarified his statement a moment later. "Too many factions," he said, referring to conflicts among law enforcement officials from the federal government, two states and the District of Columbia. "Too many jurisdictions."
If he and Mr. Muhammad had not been captured, Mr. Malvo added, the government would have had to declare martial law.
"Bringing the military in," he said, "would tear this side of the country up with the economy, tear this whole faction up. Tear this whole section of the country up."
Mr. Cooley compared Mr. Malvo to the acolyte of a cult, and to an American soldier brainwashed in the Korean War.
During questioning last November, Mr. Malvo talked about another form of brainwashing. He said no jury could be fair to him because of the influence of the news media.
"It's called subjection hypnosis," he said. "You hear something long enough, then you believe it."
Mr. Malvo was born in the slums of Kingston, Jamaica, on Feb. 18, 1985. His father, Leslie Malvo, was a construction worker. His mother, Una James, was a seamstress. His lawyers say his early years were happy.
But his parents separated when he was 5, in a bitter breakup. Lee and his mother moved to Endeavor, in Jamaica's mountainous interior, and he went to 10 different schools. His mother would leave him with caretakers, and she was not always rigorous about sending money or turning up when she promised to, his lawyers said. 
When Lee Malvo was 12, Ms. James moved with him to Antigua and left him alone there for months at a time. When he threatened suicide, his lawyers said, he was punished.
In 2000, Ms. James bought some forged identification documents from Mr. Muhammad, then living in Antigua with his three children, snatched from their mother in a custody battle in Washington State.
Mr. Muhammad took an interest in Mr. Malvo, and Mr. Malvo grew attached to Mr. Muhammad.
"He was well cut, buff, disciplined, charming, a caring parent," Mr. Cooley told the jury, "and for a child who desired a relationship with an adult male all of his life, he was the perfect fit."
"He was," Mr. Cooley told reporters after court, "every parent's worst nightmare."
The man and boy played video games, including a flight simulator. The boy started to take an interest in physical fitness and adopted the older man's American accent and his Muslim faith. He started to call Mr. Muhammad his father.
In May 2001, they flew to Florida together, with Mr. Malvo using forged papers. After a spell with his mother, who was living in Florida, Mr. Malvo took a bus to Bellingham, Wash., in October 2001. That, his lawyers say, is where the indoctrination, involving military training, physical workouts, reading and violent video games, began in earnest.
"He's trained and desensitized with video games, computer games, to train him to shoot human forms over and over," Mr. Cooley told the jury.
Under questioning last November, Mr. Malvo said he had been shooting for less than a year, having trained with paper plates. They represented, he said, people's heads. 
In court, wearing boyish crew-necked sweaters, Mr. Malvo often doodles. On the first day of trial, his lawyers showed the jury a self-portrait Mr. Malvo created not long after he was arrested.
It shows him in jail, rather more muscular than he is in person but nonetheless covering his head. At the top of the drawing, he wrote, "Face of failure." At the bottom, he added: "Failure means death. Sorry, Dad."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael S. Arif, left, and Craig S. Cooley are defending Mr. Malvo. (Photo by Associated Press); Lee Malvo being led out of juvenile court in Fairfax, Va., last November, shortly after being charged in the Washington-area sniper attacks. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); SENTENCING (77%); CAPITAL CRIMES (77%); MEN (76%); ACQUITTAL (72%); INTERVIEWS (60%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (50%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Serial Murders; Mental Health and Disorders; Capital Punishment; Murders and Attempted Murders

PERSON: Adam Liptak; Craig S Cooley; Lee Malvo; John Allen Muhammad

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Washington (DC); Virginia; Maryland

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



552 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Will Seek $300 Million For Reconstruction of Liberia 

BYLINE:  By KIRK SEMPLE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 21 

 BODY:
The United Nations, despite the drain on donors by Afghanistan and Iraq, hopes to raise at least $300 million in a conference early next year to help with the reconstruction of Liberia after years of civil conflict, officials here said this week. 
 The donors conference, which is still being planned, is expected to take place in late January or early February. It will be a test of America's commitment to Liberia, analysts and officials said. 
 "In the eyes of many Africans, particularly in West Africa, it's a test of whether the administration is really serious about Liberia," said Gayle Smith, senior fellow at the Center for American Progress in Washington, who was senior director for African affairs on the National Security Council in the Clinton administration. 
Liberia is trying to rebuild itself after a decade of fighting, which ended in August when President Charles G. Taylor stepped down and two rebel factions signed a peace agreement with the government. 
With its founding as a place to settle freed American slaves in the early 19th century, Liberia has historical links to the United States. At the height of the fighting last summer, the Bush administration ordered American warships to anchor off the coast to press Mr. Taylor to step down, and sent a small contingent ashore.
The conflict has left the country in ruins and reduced its three million citizens to among the most impoverished in the world. A United Nations peacekeeping force of 15,000 is scheduled to be at full strength in Liberia by March, making Liberia the organization's largest peacekeeping operation, officials said.
Officials here say they are seeking money to cover only short-term development needs through elections in October 2005. While $300 million is the working estimate, several United Nations agencies will survey of Liberia's needs in December and issue a final figure. Auke Lootsma, an adviser on Liberia at the United Nations Development Program, said in an interview that the survey could push the figure higher. 
American officials said the United States had agreed to be a sponsor of the conference, which will probably take place in New York. They say the American commitment is not in doubt and point to the Congressional spending bill for Afghanistan and Iraq signed into law earlier this month, which included $445 million for Liberia: $245 million for the peacekeeping force and $200 million for "peace and humanitarian intervention operations," a State Department spokesman said. 
State Department officials said it was too early to say whether the United States would give more than that $200 million in reconstruction aid at the conference. If not, some analysts say, the conference may fall well short of expectations because other donor countries with ties to Africa, like Britain and France, are already stretched by their own aid packages for the region. 
"Apart from us and the U.N. secretariat, there's no one else on God's earth who cares about this place" except in terms of how its troubles affect other nations in the region, said Chester A. Crocker, professor of strategic studies at Georgetown University and the assistant secretary of state for African affairs under President Ronald Reagan. 
Ms. Smith says she is waiting to see not only what the United States does at the conference but what sort of involvement it intends afterward. While $200 million is "a very positive step," she said, the United States will have to maintain its role "to ensure that Liberia doesn't go back over the edge." 
The money sought at the conference will be separate from a $177 million appeal for Liberia made this week by Secretary General Kofi Annan as part of the United Nations annual global fund-raising drive, which this year is seeking $3 billion to help 45 million people in 21 of the world's most serious crisis zones. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); SLAVERY (67%); MILITARY VESSELS (66%); NAVAL VESSELS (66%); LEGISLATION (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%) Foreign Aid; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (56%) United Nations

PERSON: Kirk Semple; Kofi (Sec Gen) Annan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); LIBERIA (94%); IRAQ (93%); AFRICA (93%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%) Liberia; Liberia

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



553 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1704 words

HEADLINE: Under Pressure to Change, Saudis Debate Their Future 

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: RIYADH, Saudi Arabia, Nov. 19 

 BODY:
The struggle over the future of Saudi Arabia is on.
 The idea of reshaping the kingdom's religious and tribal form of monarchy remains tentative, more vague public discussion than concrete plan. But a series of deadly bombings clearly intended to destabilize the rule of the House of Saud, combined with rare street protests and the grudging recognition of the heavy involvement of Saudis in the Sept. 11 attacks, have forced this once extremely isolated nation to re-examine the way it is run. 
 "There is an opportunity to turn this relatively sad time in our history, with the violence, to turn it into something that is good for everyone," said Prince Bandar bin Khalid, the chairman of the board of Al Watan newspaper and a grandson of the late King Faisal. 
"I think you will find a more decentralized system," he added. "I think you will find more people will have a bigger say in governing. I don't think we have an option, we need to go in that direction to ensure social stability." 
Gauging the degree of change considered possible depends on whom you talk to. Government critics say that except for small steps like an ill-defined promise for municipal elections next year and some greater latitude in news media freedom, the ruling clan maintains absolute power. Critics worry that the half dozen or so septuagenarian princes who actually run the country are too entrenched to consider diluting the role of the monarchy, especially since there is no clear ruler, because the ailing King Fahd is incapacitated. 
Supporters of the government think that the change has already started, and that the only question is finding an acceptable pace. 
Over all though, there is a sense here that Saudi Arabia is entering a period of ferment, and the various interest groups -- the religious zealots, the generally more liberal intellectuals and technocrats, women -- all seek to shape the changes to their benefit.
Emblematic, perhaps, of the contrary nature of the changes is the theology textbook for 10th graders in Saudi schools.
Previously, it contained lesson after lesson emphasizing that Muslims should shun those outside the faith -- saying, for example, that a good Muslim living among foreigners "must feel, deeply inside, hatred for them, their religion and everything they represent." 
That passage and indeed the complete chapter were cut from the books introduced this fall. But an entirely new lesson suggests the danger of dividing mosque and state, warning that anyone supporting Western methods of government deserves "excommunication from God's mercy, from Islam." 
Muhammad A. al-Zulfa, an avuncular historian who serves on the government-appointed Consultative Council, told of attending prayers every Friday at what he used to refer to as the "Taliban Mosque" in his Riyadh neighborhood.
Every sermon was laced with attacks against the United States, Israel and sundry other villains. "God pray for the Sunnis in Iraq and damn the Shiites there," Mr. Zulfa remembered the prayer leader bellowing this spring to a crowd of mostly young worshipers.
Then, a couple of months ago, the prayer leader disappeared -- apparently removed under a government campaign to tone down virulent mosque sermons -- and with him went the crowds.
Mr. Zulfa considers that a small turning point in the fight against rampant extremism, but one that must go further.
"We have to stop the religious authority from saying the country's legitimacy is based on them," he said, before enunciating the rallying cry for those who want to dilute the puritanical Wahhabi tenets that have long dominated life here. "Religion is important, but we don't want to have a religion different from other Muslims." 
It is a measure of change that the word Wahhabi can be mentioned in a newspaper column without getting the editor fired. Discussing elections is also no longer a crime, and the government recently admitted that there were thousands of AIDS cases in the kingdom. There are still topics that editors usually reject -- women driving, for example -- but over all, Saudis find far fewer taboos. 
Analysts believe that the most important shift is the fact that the religious doctrines prevalent in the kingdom can now be openly discussed in a way unthinkable even two years ago. Prohibitions have not entirely disappeared, however, hence the demand for free speech is one of the strongest. 
Mansour al-Nogaidan, a former zealot turned reformer, was the first columnist to suggest publicly that the extreme lessons within the Wahhabi sect about shunning foreigners helped terrorists to justify their attacks. That column and subsequent ones created such an uproar that Mr. Nogaidan's writing was suspended for a couple of months, and this summer he found himself summoned by a conservative judge who he said sentenced him to 75 lashes.
"He told me that all my articles in the Riyadh newspaper are against our religion, against Islam," Mr. Nogaidan said. The sentence has not been carried out, and Mr. Nogaidan used his return column this week to write that music -- considered sinful under Wahhabi tenets -- could aid spiritual enlightenment. 
Mr. Nogaidan and others believe that while the government has recognized the problem, it has not done enough to get at its roots. Conservative prayer leaders may be inveighing against extremism, for example, but they rarely single out Osama bin Laden or Al Qaeda by name.
The government's campaign to fight Mr. bin Laden and his ilk on religious grounds was apparent last week with the stunning television appearance of one of the country's most radical clerics, Sheik Ali al-Khudair. Mr. Khudair had previously issued edicts declaring government troops legitimate targets, sentencing Mr. Nogaidan and two others to death and praising the suspects in the May bombings. 
In jail since the spring, he renounced those positions in his prime-time appearance. "It is forbidden to rebel against rulers unless they commit flagrant violations of Islamic law," he said. A second cleric arrested at the same time, Sheik Nasser al-Fahd, followed suit on Saturday, Reuters reported, appearing on state television to retract his more extreme views; he warned young Saudis not to go to Iraq to wage a holy war against the occupation. 
Religious conservatives fret that in the effort to stamp out violence, the ruling family may recast the distinctive puritanical building blocks of this society and diminish the powerful role of religious scholars. Hence they attack Western precepts of government as something alien.
"When people hear the word 'democracy' they think of it as how the West lives and they don't want it," said Soliman H. al-Buthi, an agricultural engineer who works closely with some of the country's most outspoken clerics, arguing that the country should use the era of the Prophet Muhammad as the ideal period to emulate. "We believe that Islam is a way of life, so everything we need is there." 
Saudi Arabia has been through this battle before -- both conservatives and reformers thought the Persian Gulf war of 1991 would be a turning point. But this time because the threat is so stark inside the kingdom -- 17 people were killed in an attack early this month on a compound in Riyadh -- there is a sense that the stakes are much higher. 
Given the lack of parties, polls, focus groups or real research institutions, it has long been impossible to gauge which group has the most adherents. Both conservatives and their opponents swear they are a majority and the other side is an out-of-touch minority. 
It is perhaps a measure of each side's uncertainty that both are also trying to claim the middle ground. They all say they want more public participation in decision making, more transparency especially over oil revenues, an independent judiciary, a smaller public sector and a modern legal system that will pave the way for a more open economy. 
Many Saudi thinkers believe that the real problem is that there is no real forum to discuss all these issues. Lobbying consists largely of presenting petitions to the senior princes -- there have been three major ones since January -- and waiting to see if they elicit any reaction. Crown Prince Abdullah initiated what was called a "national dialogue" this year that included the huge step of inviting the once ostracized Shiite minority into the fold. He also announced the municipal elections. 
But the dialogue only comes in fits and starts. Many Saudis think the older members of the royal family are moving far too slowly on social and political reform to defang the forces arrayed against them, and that reform of how the family conducts its affairs is the first requirement, and one yet to be addressed. 
Even some younger royals worry about the pace. 
"You know how we do things in this country -- it takes us forever to arrive at any decision," said Prince Bandar, the newspaper board chairman. "I think what you are seeing now is a consensus on how things will go. Is it taking more time than my liking? Yes, I would like things to move at a faster pace because the more we delay making strategic decisions in any direction, the bigger our problems become."
Some people in Saudi Arabia see the budding problem coming less from violent extremists than from a series of small demonstrations called last month by an opposition figure based in London, Saad al-Fagih. Although only a few hundred people turned out and scores were arrested, the fact that a distant figure with little popular following can get people out on the streets is seen as an important shift in a country where open dissent has been rare. 
Given the ban on any kind of opposition group, or the lack of any charismatic opposition figure, it is unlikely that such disenchanted, often unemployed youth will coalesce around any one figure. But with roughly half the population under age 20 -- a group lacking much feeling for the tribal loyalties of the past -- the idea that demonstrating could become the norm is a potent threat. The government even issued an edict making protests a sin. 
"There is no danger of the government falling from terrorism," said one Saudi professional. "But if it comes to pass that popular demonstrations take hold in this society, that's dangerous."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Saudi women used the Internet at a human rights conference in October in Riyadh, where they had the unusual freedom to mix publicly with men outside their families. Analysts see signs of change in the kingdom as a way to provide social stability, but the extent of change is still uncertain. (Photo by Lynsey Addario/Corbis, for The New York Times); Sheik Ali al-Khudair, one of Saudi Arabia's most radical clerics, renounced some of his harshest edicts in a TV appearance this month. (Photo by Al Sharq Al Awsat) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); BOMBINGS (77%); TALIBAN (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); CHURCH & STATE (73%); TERRORISM (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); HISTORY (70%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (70%); RIOTS (70%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); POLITICS (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); CITIES (51%) Royal Family; Politics and Government; Freedom of Speech and Expression; Freedom and Human Rights; Demonstrations and Riots; Bombs and Explosives; Church-State Relations; Elections; News and News Media; Islam

PERSON: Neil Macfarquhar

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (90%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Saudi Arabia; Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



554 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: A Museum's Castoff May One Day Be A Collector's Find 

BYLINE:  By JANE GORDON

 BODY:
THE art critic Hilton Kramer once called Ben Benn, who died in 1983, one of the best painters in the United States. But on a recent Monday night at Winter Associates, a Plainville auction house, just a few visitors took note of Mr. Benn's paintings, including an eye-catching portrait of a black-haired, black-eyed woman, lips the color of spilled blood.
 The piece was one of more than a dozen, several by Mr. Benn, belonging to the New Britain Museum of American Art, which was cleaning house in a process known as deaccessioning. The auctioneer, Linda Stamm, cajoled, but there were no buyers for several paintings. Mr. Benn's work, "Portrait of Velida," eventually sold for $392. 
 "They got a good deal," said Paula Reens, director of Wilton's Branchville Soho Gallery, which handled the Benn estate. "He's in 32 museums, and those in the know have bought his work. He is going to pop, and that work is going tobe worth far more." 
Anyone who believes that a good find at an auction is fantasy need only look at the sales featuring museum deaccessionings, particularly the so-called country auctions, to learn otherwise.
Like the New Britain museum, the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art in Hartford, the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, Historic Deerfield in Massachusetts, the Connecticut Historical Society and other institutions periodically edit their collections, and then auction pieces in Connecticut.
"Some of the things that come out of auction are unbelievable," said Joseph Collins, an antiques dealer from Cobalt who was at the New Britain sale. "The museums and historical societies sometimes hire these young kids to deaccession, and they don't always know what they're doing." 
Joseph Wei, a Farmington dealer in Asian art also at the sale, disagreed. Holding an Oriental vase, he inspected it carefully. He was skeptical, he said, of finding any treasures at an auction.
"Flaws, condition problems, all sorts of issues can come up," he said, adding, "I just don't know if you're going to find something wonderful at a little country auction." 
Still Mr. Wei admitted, "I've had luck in some of the most unlikely of places." He became the sole bidder on the Oriental vase, and moments later, its owner. "Shh," he said, grinning. "Don't give away my secrets." 
Deaccessioning is a delicate process. The ethical code of the American Association of Museums says that institutions are not to sell works to raise money for general upkeep. The code says that works should be sold only "for the advancement of the museum's mission," adding that proceeds should not go to "anything other than acquisition or direct care of collections." 
"There are two economies in museums: the operating budget and the acquisition budget, and may they never cross the line," said Peter Sutton, director of the Bruce Museum of Arts and Science in Greenwich, and former director of the Wadsworth Atheneum. "If you sell something from a museum, you need to buy something else," he continued. "When you sell to help the operating budget, I always liken it to burning the furniture to keep warm."
Another concern is that donors, especially those who gave the works being sold off, may be upset and discouraged from further donation. The possibility of a brouhaha from donors, or even from the public, keeps some museums from publicizing their names during auctions. At the Winter Associates auction, for example, several pieces from "the collection of a New York City Museum" were being sold. 
"Some institutions simply want to be identified as a Northeast museum or something equally nebulous," said Ms. Stamm, the auctioneer. "But others want items to be specifically identified as coming from their collection, because they think they will get a greater return on the object.
"I've never understood the hesitation," she added. "You're not weakening the museum's collection, but rather strengthening it, getting rid of something of less importance when there are better examples."
Museums are generally careful, curators said, to let donors know they are considering a deaccessioning.
"An object may be of relatively small value, and by virtue of the donor or heirs of the donors, the amount of money to be gained may not be significant enough to the museum compared to the public relations damage it is going to do," said Willard Holmes, director of the Wadsworth Atheneum. "No two deaccessionings are ever the same. Sometimes the message it might send outweighs the value."
Deciding what to sell off is another issue. There may be internal disagreements about what should go, as well as public disapproval of the sale. 
A few decades ago, the New York Historical Society was hanging from a financial cliff and so decided to sell millions of dollars worth of art and artifacts. People who knew its holdings were horrified because in storage were a large collection of Tiffany glass and paintings from the Hudson River School. Many of those works were sold.
Some museum curators are reluctant to discuss their policy on deaccessioning. Douglas Hyland, director of the New Britain museum, refused repeated requests to discuss this specific issue. But Amanda Lange, curator of historic interiors at Historic Deerfield, said that institution had "a strategic plan for deaccessioning."
"It comes down to filling gaps and refining the collection," she said. "We may have 17 of this form and none of this form. What might be a little uncomfortable for the buyer is that they may be buying the museum's mistakes, especially with a piece of furniture. People think, 'Well, why are they selling it?"'
Deerfield's last major deaccessioning was seven years ago, until this year, when it sold several items earlier this month.
Connecticut curators generally believe deaccessioning clarifies and strengthens museum collections.
"It's a good thing to do," said Mr. Sutton of the Bruce. "Otherwise, you have situations where you have burgeoning storerooms where things are never seen. Why not give it back to the public, rather than have it sit in the dark?" 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ben Benn's painting "Portrait of Velida," left, once owned by the New Britain Museum of American Art, was sold recently at an auction at Winter Associates in Plainville. Also offered for sale was a photograph from 1886. Below, auction house workers preparing items for sale. Far left, workers accepting telephone bids. (Photographs by M.J. Fiedler for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); AUCTIONS (91%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PAINTING (90%); HISTORY (89%); ART DEALERS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (77%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (70%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ETHICS (66%) Art; Auctions; Art

ORGANIZATION: WADSWORTH ATHENEUM MUSEUM OF ART (55%); HISTORIC DEERFIELD (54%); CONNECTICUT HISTORICAL SOCIETY (54%) Winter Associates; New Britain Museum of American Art (Conn)

PERSON: Jane Gordon; Ben Benn

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



555 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Insurance Capital? Just in Hartford 

BYLINE:  By AVI SALZMAN

 BODY:
NO doubt, the shakeup of two of the largest insurance companies in the state is big news here. The companies, Travelers and CIGNA, employ thousands of people here and bring billions of dollars to the state's economy. When the industry makes a major move, people in the state hold their breath.
 But does Connecticut live by insurance alone? 
 "I think it's a little archaic to say that now," said Tom J. Roche, a managing director for the Connecticut operations of Marsh and McLennan Companies, the world's biggest insurance broker. "Although it's still important, it's not as critical as it was 10 or 20 years ago. You've had very little job growth in the insurance sector over the past 10 years and you've had an increase in a number of other jobs.
"Connecticut was at one point the insurance capital of the world," Mr. Roche said. "There's probably five to 10 major places on the globe now that are major insurance hubs."
Analysts were still unsure of what impact the deals announced last week will have on Connecticut's work force. Hartford-based Travelers Property Casualty Corporation announced a merger Monday with St. Paul Companies, which is based in Minnesota, creating the second-largest property-casualty insurer in the country. Also on Monday, CIGNA decided to sell its retirement plan business to Prudential Financial.
While the industry still generated billions of dollars in revenues in the state and employed tens of thousands, it was not the top industry in the state. As far as the number of jobs, that honor goes to the category of food and drink service, according to the State Department of Labor. Next was local education, followed by ambulatory health care, then insurance. Insurance wasn't even No. 1 in gross revenues. Real estate was.
"Connecticut is about as diverse a state economically as you're going to find anywhere on the planet," said Peter Gioia, an economist with the Connecticut Business & Industry Association, which lobbies for about 10,000 businesses statewide. "If you look in terms of employment and output, there are other industries that are larger" than insurance.
In fact, the insurance job market has declined over the past decade, said Daniel W. Kennedy, senior economist with the State Department of Labor.
Insurance and related industries employed 82,900 people in 1990, but only 68,000 in 2002, according to the labor department. The industry hit a low point in 1996 during a major restructuring period when employment figures dropped to 61,800, Mr. Kennedy said. In Hartford, the decline was similar, as total jobs in the industry dropped from 55,414, to 44,500 over the same period.
In Hartford, insurance was still king. There, the industry was the No. 1 employer, with 49,646 jobs as of the third quarter, Mr. Kennedy said.
The decline in insurance jobs, though, seems to have tapered off, he said.
"I guess it's stabilized a little bit," Mr. Kennedy said. "It's certainly stopped losing jobs like it was doing during the restructuring in the mid-90's."
Jobs have also begun to open up in other industries like health care, technology and pharmaceuticals, Mr. Roche said.
But, even if employment numbers have decreased in insurance, output has gone way up.
As of 2000, insurance carriers and agents had created an $11.6 billion industry statewide, making up about 7.3 percent of the gross state product, according to United States Bureau of Economic Analysis. Real estate was a $25.4 billion industry in 2000, making up about 15.9 percent of the G.S.P.
In 1990, insurance was a $4 billion industry in Connecticut, making up a little more than 4 percent of the gross state product. Why did the market share grow as the job market shrunk? Mark R. Prisloe, an associate economist with the state's Department of Economic and Community Development, said he thought workers in the industry have simply become more productive.
"What this saying is that productivity is higher, because they're producing output with fewer workers," he said.
There are other reasons why the outlook is good for the insurance industry here, economists said. Despite the decline in the insurance job market, insurance jobs are among the best-paying in the state, Mr. Gioia said. And the money that pays those salaries comes primarily from out-of-state.
"Insurance sells more of its product outside of the borders of Connecticut," he said.
The Travelers and Cigna deals probably won't change the high profile of insurance in the state, though the job situation was still murky, Mr. Roche said. St. Paul's may bring employees to the area, possibly transferring some from its Baltimore offices. The chairmen of those two companies have stressed that they would be able to find cost savings without mass layoffs in Connecticut.
Mr. Roche said he expected that insurance will always have a strong foothold here, if only because the Connecticut work force is already well-trained in the field.
"What you have is a knowledge economy where there's a great deal of people who have a general knowledge of the area," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hartford-based Travelers Property Casualty Corporation (tower in center) will merge with St. Paul Companies, which is based in Minnesota. (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (73%); COMPANY REVENUES (72%); HEALTH CARE (70%); MERGERS (65%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (64%) Insurance; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: TRAVELERS COS INC (94%); CIGNA CORP (92%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (91%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Travelers Insurance Co; Cigna Corp; St Paul Companies; Prudential Financial Inc

TICKER: TRV (NYSE) (94%); CI (NYSE) (92%); MMC (NYSE) (91%); MHM (LSE) (91%); PRU (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (94%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (54%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (54%)

PERSON: Avi Salzman

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Hartford (Conn) ; Connecticut 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



556 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK; 
Credit Unions Go After a Larger Customer Base

BYLINE:  By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
MEMBERSHIP in a credit union has long been a perquisite for employees of some large companies, government agencies and the military, and for their families. A vestige of Depression-era America, credit unions were created to extend banking services to working-class people.
 Many people discovered -- usually when they needed loans -- that their credit unions offered the best terms around, along with personalized service from people they knew as co-workers. Many became loyal customers. 
 Bill Powers, a Grumman retiree who lives in Port Jefferson Station, said that he and his wife put nine children through college using loans from the Bethpage Federal Credit Union. "It is the only bank we have associated with all these years," he said. "They are like family."
This cozy arrangement is now being extended to millions of people formerly excluded. Credit unions on Long Island and across the country are getting new charters that allow them to act more and more like any other bank. Last Monday, the Bethpage credit union became the latest on Long Island to receive what is known as a community charter, allowing it to offer its services to most Island residents. (By regulatory fiat, the Towns of East Hampton, Southampton and Shelter Island are off limits to Bethpage.) 
The Bethpage credit union, founded in 1941 for Grumman employees, is one of the five on Long Island that have recently been rechartered. Bethpage, the largest of the Island's credit unions, has nine branches; the newest opened in Hempstead this month.
In all, the Island's 39 credit unions serve a total of 600,000 people and hold more than $6.5 billion in assets.
The local activity mirrors a national trend. Nearly 14 percent of the country's 10,000 credit unions have received community charters, as they are known. The trend dates to 1998, when Congress passed a law allowing credit unions to expand their customer bases. 
The Suffolk Federal Credit Union is doing likewise. Having started out in 1967 serving school employees in Valley Stream, over the years it expanded to include all school employees on Long Island, and then all Suffolk County employees. In June, it received a new community charter and now offers membership to anyone who lives, works or worships in Suffolk County. Plans are under way to open branches in Hampton Bays and Huntington next year.
Consumers, including people who own or want to start small businesses, ought to be delighted, said Frank Mitchell Corso Jr., a Jericho business consultant. "Historically, credit unions offer better terms than banks and thrifts and require less paperwork," said Mr. Corso, who specializes in small-business finance. 
For most of their history, credit unions have been content to serve narrowly circumscribed populations, and their marketing consisted mostly of sending fliers to human-resource directors.
"We haven't promoted ourselves in the past," said Edward Boughal, the president and chief executive of the Suffolk Federal Credit Union. "By definition, credit unions have always waited for members to come to us."
Clearly, those days are over. Kirk Kordeleski, the president and chief executive of the Bethpage credit union, said he had expanded his staff by about 25 percent over the past year, to 330 employees, and planned to hire 40 more people next year, to compete directly with banks for the middle-market consumer. He is also doubling his marketing budget to $1.5 million for 2004, and for the first time, Bethpage Federal will advertise in general- interest publications.
Most Long Island consumers, Mr. Kordeleski said, have not yet realized they can enter what had been a closed club, "but now we are going to get the word out."
There's plenty of history underlying credit union's shyness. They are, by design, nonprofit financial cooperatives that pay no taxes or dividends to investors. Because their costs arelower, they can pass the savings along to their members. 
Nationally, credit unions have about $600 billion in assets, compared with $9.2 trillion for banks and savings and loan associations. In the last three years, credit unions' assets have grown by about 12 percent a year, according to Mike Schenk, an economist and the vice president for research at the National Credit Union Association in Washington. During that same period banks grew at a rate of 6.7 percent, he said.
Banks tend to dismiss the new competition. "Banks have tried to combat this growth because it's unfair," said Chris Giamo, a Commerce Bank vice president who runs its Long Island division. "Credit unions are nonprofits that are not governed by the same regulations we are."
But Mr. Giamo does not believe that credit unions will cut into his bank's market significantly. "My competition has market share," he said. "The credit unions don't have market share."
Frank Filipo, who runs Suffolk County National Bank's branch network, expressed a similar view: "Am I pleased at the competition? No. But I don't view them as a tremendous threat, either. They don't show up as Darth Vader, at least not on my radar screen."
Not every credit union wants to compete with banks, either. The Nassau Educators Credit Union has not applied for a community charter and has no plans to do so, said George Papaioannou, a director and a professor of finance at Hofstra University. Its identification with the education sector provides "a distinct advantage, a niche in the market," he said, emphasizing that he was speaking as an individual director, not for the credit union's board.
The Nassau Educators Credit Union may be in the minority. "To be successful long term we need to diversify," said Mr. Kordeleski, of Bethpage Federal, which started out as Bethpage Aircraft Federal Credit Union in 1941. "Grumman once had the largest employment base on Long Island before it shrunk from 20,000 to 2,500. We learned pretty quickly how a strong position can disappear. We don't want that to happen again."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 14, 2003

 CORRECTION:
The L.I.@Work column on Nov. 23, about the rechartering of several credit unions on Long Island, misstated the ranking of one of them, the Bethpage Federal Credit Union. It is the second-largest on the Island; the Teachers Federal Credit Union, based in Farmingville, surpassed Bethpage in total assets this year. The article also misidentified the credit union that has enrolled the largest number of Long Island school employees. It is Teachers, not the Suffolk Federal Credit Union.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kirk Kordeleski, left, the chief executive of the newly rechartered Bethpage Federal Credit Union, has expanded his staff to 330. Bethpage was founded in 1941 for Grumman employees, above. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT UNIONS (93%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); COUNTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CHILDREN (78%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); TRENDS (68%) Credit Unions

ORGANIZATION: Bethpage Federal Credit Union

PERSON: Warren Strugatch

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



557 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2486 words

HEADLINE: Wide Island 

BYLINE:  By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
WHEN Robert Moses unveiled Long Island's parkways and Levittown advertised its reasonably priced cookie-cutter homes, New Yorkers couldn't uproot themselves from the city fast enough to claim their own patch of grass and breathe in all that fresh suburban air.
 But now a recent study suggests that the two-car garages that go with that suburban dream may actually be hazardous to your health. 
 The study, which surveyed 200,000 men and women living in 448 counties across the country, found that people living in communities marked by sprawling development walked less in their daily routine and weighed more than people who live in more compact urban areas. Suburbanites, the study found, are also more likely to become obese and suffer from high blood pressure. 
Health and nutrition experts on Long Island say this study, the first to directly link obesity with the way communities are designed, simply reinforces what they have been saying for years - that Long Islanders need to work on increasing their level of physical activity. 
Some planners and developers have heartily embraced the study's results, saying that it supports their efforts to redevelop downtown areas and create more pedestrian-friendly communities. But others view the results with heavy skepticism and criticize the study as anti-suburban and anti-development. Even if you can't walk a block or so to pick up a quart of milk in Long Island, they argue, the suburbs provide more parks and open space than cities do and therefore more opportunities for exercise and physical activity.
Debbie Brown, a recent transplant to Dix Hills from Brooklyn, let out a big laugh when she was told about the study as she waited for her order at the drive-through window at a Dunkin' Donuts in Hempstead. "Oh, I believe it," she said. "My exercise agenda is horrible, and I don't walk anywhere."
A woman who was two cars behind Ms. Brown agreed. "People don't even walk around the corner out here, and nothing is convenient without a car," she said. "It's just a different way of living."
She said that she and her husband refused to buy a car for 12 full months after they moved from New York City to Rockville Centre in 2001. But now that they have succumbed, she said, she was too embarrassed to give her name "because I'm so excited to have discovered this drive-through." 
Reid Ewing, the lead author of the study and a professor at the National Center for Smart Growth at the University of Maryland, said that researchers have found that the amount of physical activity people got during their leisure time did not vary much between cities and suburbs. "The difference isn't in their leisure but in how they spend the rest of their time," he said. "In an urban environment, you move more for transportation purposes. Instead of walking out of the house and into your car, you're walking to lunch or the subway, and you're climbing up and down those subway stairs."
The study used data from surveys compiled by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It found that in Manhattan -- the most compact urban area in the nation -- an average adult weighs 161.1 pounds, while the average adult weighs 165.8 pounds in Nassau County and 166.4 in Suffolk County. The expected probability of obesity also increased from west to east, with 11.5 percent probability in New York City, 17 percent in Nassau and 17.8 percent in Suffolk.
Patrick Duggan, the executive director of Sustainable Long Island, a group that promotes pedestrian-friendly development, thinks he knows why. "We have such limited walkability in Long Island communities," he said. "We just live such sedentary lives that it's not a big jump to make the correlation between sprawl and obesity."
Mr. Duggan said his group hoped to study the way the design of specific Long Island communities affects health and obesity. "We just have not thought about the health implications when thinking about the design of our communities," he said. "I think the study is significant enough that planners and policy makers need to take notice, and we need to think about how if you're driving all the time, you're not contributing to your health in a meaningful way."
Lee E. Koppelman, the executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board, said that he was very skeptical of the study's findings because he contends that the difference of five pounds between city dwellers and suburbanites was negligible. "I know when I weigh myself at home, I'm 169, but at my internist's it's 177," he said. "So to me statistically, five pounds is a dead heat. The importance of the study is that obesity is a national problem, and people in New York aren't off the hook. They're just as much at risk as people in the suburbs."
He has a point. Obesity has reached epidemic proportions nationally, and federal health officials are saying that it may soon overtake smoking as the nation's biggest health threat. A recent national survey found that almost 65 percent of the adult population in the United States was overweight and almost one adult in three was obese. State Health Department figures show that while less than 10 percent of the population was obese in 1985, the figure had grown to 20 to 24 percent by 2001. 
Obesity is measured by a person's body mass index, which is weight in relation to height. Anyone with an index figure of 25 or higher is considered overweight; anyone with a figure of 30 or higher is considered obese. (To calculate your body mass index, visit http://www.cdc.gov/nccdphp/dnpa/bmi/bmi-adult.htm.)
While it may be true that Long Islanders are completely dependent on their cars to perform even the simplest errand, Dr. Koppelman said, "we probably play more golf and tennis and make use of hiking trails more than people in the city." Besides, he added, "even in the city everybody goes places by bus, subway or taxi, and the only people walking significant distances are the tourists gawking at buildings."
Even if Long Island residents wanted to go for a walk in their neighborhoods, many would find it difficult because most areas were built without sidewalks. Long Island led the way in the 1950's when suburban communities across the country revised their zoning codes to make sidewalks optional.
"People didn't want them because sidewalks and smokestacks were the symbols of what people fled from in the cities," Dr. Koppelman said. And homeowners didn't want people walking on what they considered their private property. 
Dan Burden, a national planning consultant and the executive director of Walkable Communities Inc., has surveyed dozens of neighborhoods on Long Island and said measuring "walkability" on a scale of 1 to 10, Long Island rates a low 3. "It's extremely difficult to find a place where you're not running the whole challenge of 'can I get there from here safely without having to drive?"' he said.
Some areas of the country that developed without sidewalks are now trying to add them. For example, Columbus, Ohio, where Mr. Burden grew up and which has sidewalks along only 40 percent of its streets, has spent more than $4 million in the last three years to build sidewalks near schools so that children can walk there more easily. 
Long Island developers and planners have not yet considered building sidewalks where none exist now, but several proposals for new developments would create old-fashioned village centers complete with sidewalks. Assemblyman Steven Englebright is backing a $250 million development that would convert a series of strip malls in East Setauket into a village center. In Brentwood, Gerald Wolkoff has proposed a $4 billion complex of apartments, town houses, restaurants and shops on a 460-acre site that would be called Heartland Town Square.
"This would give people a different lifestyle than they're used to in the suburbs," Mr. Wolkoff said. "It would be like when I was a kid in Brooklyn, and I could walk to the store or to a friend's house, and it's an added bonus that it would help cut down on obesity."
Although the new study did not examine childhood obesity, it noted that C.D.C. figures show that 15 percent of the nation's children 6 to 19 are overweight. It also noted that a recent poll conducted by the Surface Transportation Policy Project in Washington found that while 71 percent of 800 parents of school-age children walked or biked to school when they were young, only 18 percent of their children do the same. 
"So even children aren't getting as much physical activity in the course of their everyday lives as children used to," said Dr. Ewing, the study's lead author.
State law requires school districts to provide buses for high school students who live three miles or farther from school, and the distance drops to two miles for younger students. But many districts on Long Island provide buses for shorter distances.
Levittown, for example, now provides transportation for any child who lives half a mile or more from school. Thirty years ago, about 50 percent of the district's students walked to school, but only 20 percent walk to school now. Herman A. Sirois, the district superintendent, said the increased busing came mainly because of concerns about traffic safety. "Our streets were not built for four-car families," he said, noting that the original Levittown homes all had one-car garages. "Who could afford two cars in the 1950's and who needed it when most moms stayed at home? But society has changed, and the response to the increased traffic has been to bus our children to school."
In fact, according to census data, the number of cars available for personal use to Long Island households has increased from 522,132 in 1960 to 916,686 in 2000. And the number of households with two or more cars at their disposal rose from 29.4 percent in 1960 to 65.2 percent in 2000.
But, Dr. Sirois said, walking to school -- or not walking -- had little effect on weight. "Our kids aren't getting fatter because they're not walking to school any more," he said. "It's because television advertises junk food, and the kids decide they've got to have junk food." 
He added that with the growth in soccer leagues and other organized sports leagues outside of school, children have many more opportunities to get exercise than they used to. True enough, said Josephine Connolly, a professor of family medicine at Stony Brook University who specializes in physical health and nutrition. "But kids spend so much time riding in a car to get to activities, and a lot of the time at the activity is often spent sitting around, and many of the venues tend to sell junk food," she said. "It's so different from just playing outside in the neighborhood, and there are no vending machines in my backyard." 
At the Center for Weight Management for the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, experts are t trying to inject more physical activity into sedentary suburban lives. Eileen Rosendahl, the center's clinical supervisor, said that patients have often been unable to lose weight despite a series of diets and a host of gyms. "What has a more long-term effect is simply integrating more movement into their daily lives, and that involves learning new life strategies," she said.
One strategy is to have patients wear pedometers to measure the distance they walk every day. For most people, that's about 3,000 steps a day, or about a mile and a half. To help people lose weight, physiologists at the center may set a daily goal of 10,000 steps and devise ways to reach that goal.
That might include parking farther from the supermarket entrance and watching less television, which has a natural tendency to get people up and about.
Those strategies are similar to those used by Weight Watchers. Maggie Jerchau, who led Weight Watchers meetings on Long Island for 12 years before transferring to Manhattan three years ago, said that people in the suburbs often don't realize how little physical activity they get.
Ms. Jerchau started wearing a pedometer nine years ago and has found that when she works from her home in Wantagh, she tends to clock only 2,300 steps a day. But when she goes into Manhattan, the number climbs to 10,000. "We're all very busy people, especially moms on Long Island who are running around all day getting their kids everywhere they have to go," she said. "But what I try to tell people is you shouldn't confuse busy with active, and if you're just getting in and out of the car, you're not being active."
The health departments of Nassau and Suffolk Counties are working to help tackle obesity. Nassau plans to conduct a telephone survey to assess the behavioral patterns of residents next year, and Suffolk already provides an extensive health-education program to local schools.
More than a third of Suffolk's 72 school districts have signed up for the county program. The curriculum on physical activity starts in kindergarten, where children are urged to set a goal for physical activities each day; suggestions include walking to school and playing tag. By the fifth grade, students are asked to map out 30 minutes of physical activity and 30 minutes of exercise daily. 
"The program focuses on teaching children skills they can use to develop healthy lifestyles for the rest of their lives," said Lori Benincasa, Suffolk County's director of health education.
State law requires only two semesters of health education during middle and high school, but the county's program provides lessons from kindergarten through the 12th grade. 
Robert Wieboldt, the executive director of the Long Island Builders Association, said he agreed with efforts to make Long Island more pedestrian friendly, but changing Long Island's well-ingrained car culture, he said, will not be easy.
"Out here people look askance at people who walk," he said. "In the city or even other suburbs it's the norm, but here when somebody sees somebody walking, unless you're wearing expensive jogging clothes, they think you got a D.W.I."

Pedestrian Ideas for Better Fitness
Health and nutrition experts on Long Island say that because suburbanites are so reliant on their cars, they can lead much more sedentary lives than their city counterparts. Here are a few of their suggestions for injecting more physical activity into daily routines.

PARK FARTHER AWAY -- Instead of circling endlessly to try to get the parking space closest to the store entrance, park farther away and walk. Instead of parking at the train station, find a convenient place to park between your home and the station and walk the rest of the way.

PARK JUST ONCE -- When running two or more errands, find a central parking location and walk to each place rather than driving to and parking at each one.

USE THE STAIRS -- In office buildings, skip the elevator when only going two to three floors.

TAKE ADVANTAGE OF OPEN SPACE -- Find out what is available in terms of public parks and beaches in the area and make an effort to plan family outings.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Health and nutrition experts on the Island say a study finding that suburbanites are more likely to be obese than their urban counterparts bolsters their argument that Long Islanders need to work on increasing their level of physical activity. Above, scenes from the Source Mall in Westbury and a supermarket in Franklin Square. (Photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times) Chart: "Evidence Of Preponderance"Number of New York Sports Club gyms on Long Island in:1983: 02000: 9 Number od gastric bypass operations -- stomach staplings -- done at hospitals in the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health Systems in:1997: 1252002: 807 Number of Lane Bryant stores (for plus-size women) on Long Island in:1983: 32003: 10 (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (89%); OBESITY (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (69%); NUTRITION (69%); HYPERTENSION (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Weight; Obesity; Suburbs; Hypertension; Urban Areas; Weight

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (83%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (65%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (65%)

PERSON: Vivian S Toy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



558 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1485 words

HEADLINE: A Struggle to Keep the Recycling Bin Full 

BYLINE:  By DAVID WINZELBERG

 BODY:
THOSE colorful plastic bins on neighborhood curbs have become part of the local landscape and filling them part of the weekly routine. Long Islanders don't usually give much thought to recycling. And in the last few years, statistics show that many may be giving it even less thought, throwing out more trash while recycling less.
 Overall, Long Island towns report recycling rates much lower than the goal set by the state Department of Environmental Conservation, which is to recycle at least 42 percent of all solid waste. Many towns also report recycling less than the 29.7 percent of solid waste the federal Environmental Protection Agency said was recovered nationally in 2001. The Town of North Hempstead's recycling rate has dropped sharply in recent years, and rates in Oyster Bay, Huntington and Islip have also decreased. 
 The North Hempstead supervisor, May Newburger, was at a loss to explain the dropoff in her town's recycling rate, which plunged from 37 percent in 1999 to 20 percent in 2002. "I really don't know why that is," she said. "We regularly send out reminders and advertise recycling. I think we're doing everything we can." 
But in Hempstead, where the recycling rate rose from 25 percent in 2000 to 30 percent last year, officials credited education efforts. Richard Ronan, the sanitation commissioner, said the town had been conducting surveys of town garbage routes to see which homes are not putting out the green plastic buckets at least once a month. Those who don't will receive new buckets, to remind them to participate in the town's recycling program. The town also runs television commercials to promote its hazardous waste disposal initiative.
Maureen Wren, a D.E.C. spokeswoman, discounted the declining recycling rates reported by the Long Island towns and said that "according to the information reported by municipalities and private firms to D.E.C., the amount of materials recycled statewide continues to be stable."
Lawrence Swanson, director of the Waste Reduction and Management Institute at Stony Brook University, said images of the infamous garbage barge and the unwanted New York City trash that floated on it have long faded from people's minds, making recycling seem less urgent. "People are tired of it," he said. "You need a crisis to keep people inspired." 
Although there is no state mandate for towns to recycle at a certain rate, in the 1988 Solid Waste Management Act, the D.E.C. outlined goals for municipalities to recycle between 42 and 50 percent of their garbage by the year 2000. Some Long Island town officials think that was a stretch and complain that the state and federal governments are not doing enough to create markets for recycled materials. But Dr. Swanson put the onus on local government. "The towns would like to see a continuing source for their recyclables, but sometimes they have to eat a little bit of the cost," he said.
Residents who try to sneak tuna cans into their regular trash could be fined, but almost none are. And going after individuals who fail to recycle is not the answer anyway, according to Gordon Gibson of Huntington, executive director of Citizens for a Livable Environment and Recycling.
"We are not what counts," he said. "It is the organizations in the community that counts. Every government office should recycle every scrap of office paper, because once they get their house in order, the whole thing follows. They should account for trash the same way they account for money."
There are other reasons why recycling has slowed here. Markets for recycled products like paper and scrap metal have become saturated by the increase in supply from municipalities who have jumped on the recycling bandwagon in recent years. With the smaller demand for some recyclables, it costs towns more for disposal. This was the reason New York City suspended its plastic and glass recycling program last year. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said ending this type of recycling would save the city about $40 million.
Of course, not recycling puts that much more trash into the waste stream. With most incinerators already burning as much as they can and local landfills closed, the garbage has to go somewhere. Much of New York City's trash goes to landfills in Virginia. Over a million tons of Long Island's trash is burned at the four waste-to-energy incinerators located in Babylon, East Garden City, Huntington and Islip.
Officials of American Ref-Fuel, which operates the incinerator in East Garden City, have proposed a a similar incinerator on the site of the former Shoreham nuclear plant. But the Brookhaven supervisor, John Jay LaValle, has said he opposes the plan. Currently, Brookhaven trucks its garbage to the Nassau incinerator.
Some recycling advocates contend that too much waste that could be used again is going up in smoke, posing a health risk.
"Mass incinerators generate extensive pollution, and it's usually very dangerous pollution, fine particulates like zinc, arsenic cadmium and lead," Mr. Gibson said. "Virtually everything put in a mass incinerator can be recycled." 
Kent Burton, a senior vice president with Covanta Energy, a company that operates two incinerators on Long Island, dismissed the accusation that incinerators are big polluters. "As the E.P.A. recently expressed, waste-to-energy plants throughout the country 'produce 2,800 megawatts of electricity with less environmental impact than almost any other sources of electricity,"' he said. He added that incinerators "save land otherwise used for disposal, destroy dangerous pathogens that threaten public health, decrease groundwater degradation, reduce greenhouse gases, significantly reduce the release of hazardous air pollutants, eliminate the release of methane from trash and control litter, noise and odor associated with burying trash in the ground." 
Mr. Gibson complained that his town's recycling rate has fallen over the last few years, from 37.6 percent in 1999 to 33.8 percent in 2002. Still, among the seven largest towns on the Island, also including Hempstead, North Hempstead, Oyster Bay, Babylon, Islip and Brookhaven, Huntington had the highest rate of solid waste recovery. 
Howard Zeis, a Huntington town employee, has been working in garbage for the last 19 years, most recently at the town's walk-in recycling center on New York Avenue, where residents can dispose of things like car batteries and motor oil. "People think it's easier to toss it out than to do anything with it," Mr. Zeis said. "We need to make people more aware and make it as easy as possible for people to do the right thing."
In the towns of Southampton, Southold and Shelter Island, residents are given a choice about what to do with their garbage; hire a private carter or dispose of it themselves at pay-as-you-throw waste and recycling centers. In Southampton, about half the residents use carters and half bring their trash and recyclables to the town's four centers, according to Judith McCleery, Southampton's recycling coordinator. 
"It's a free market system," Ms. McCleery said. "They can get the best price from the carters. If they don't like those prices, they can do it themselves."
After a 25 percent bump in recyclables collected in 1995, the first year of the program, the town's recycling rate has remained about the same, Ms. McCleery said.
Southampton also offers its residents a do-it-yourself composting device for about $40, to reduce yard waste, the single largest component in Long Island's recycled garbage. The Town of North Hempstead recovered nearly 24,000 tons of yard waste last year, more than double the amount of newspaper, bottles and cans combined. In 1994, the Town of East Hampton built an indoor composting plant to process its yard waste. 
"It doesn't make any sense to landfill yard waste when you've got thousands of gardeners who can never get enough compost," said Peter Garnham, a former recycling information officer for the Town of East Hampton.
But who needs old tires, leaky batteries or oil-soaked rags? These items are not as easily recycled as yard waste, and it costs money to collect, sort and transport them as well. "We spend millions of dollars a year on solid waste management," said Phil Nolan, director of environmental waste for the Town of Huntington. "We get about $370 per year from each property to pay for all this."
Dr. Swanson said that over the long term, recycling will have a positive effect by not depleting natural resources. But he said the idea that recycling can turn garbage into gold is unrealistic, given the costs of collection and the volatility of markets.
"The economic argument for recycling has been very detrimental to the cause," Dr. Swanson said. "I don't think it will ever be a money maker, but it might offset the cost of disposal."
Ms. McCleery agreed. "Recycling is still a cost avoidance for us," she said. "Even when the markets are down, we think it pays." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: RECYCLING IS DECLINING in some Long Island towns, and many towns report recovery rates below the national average. Here, cans pile up at Islip's recycling plant. (Photo by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 1); A worker at Islip's recycling plant sorting recyclable items. (Photo by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 9) Graph tracks percentage of municipal solid waste recycled since 2000. (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); WASTE REDUCTION (77%); SOLID WASTE REGULATION (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (75%); STATISTICS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (66%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (51%) Waste Materials and Disposal; Recycling of Waste Materials

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: David Winzelberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY); Hempstead (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



559 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: JERSEY FOOTLIGHTS 

BYLINE:  By Michelle Falkenstein

 BODY:
'A Feeling About People'
 Donald Williams was 12 when he attended a lecture and demonstration by the Dance Theater of Harlem in his hometown of Chicago. Afterward, he went backstage and met Arthur Mitchell, the company's founder and director. 
 "He asked me if I had been studying dance," recalled Mr. Williams, who had been studying ballet for a year and a half on a scholarship. "Then he asked me to take my shoe off because he wanted to see my foot." 
 Mr. Williams removed his shoe and was promptly offered a scholarship in New York for the summer. This was a tryout? "He had a feeling about people," Mr. Williams said.
 But Mr. Williams's mother was not so sure he should leave home. Finally, he got her permission. He ended up staying in New York for three years. 
 After high school, he considered becoming a civil engineer, but the pull of dance was too great. He joined the Harlem company as an apprentice in 1977, and has been a principal dancer since 1983.
 "I think this is what I was destined to do," said Mr. Williams, 44, who has lived in Hackensack for seven years.
 Mr. Williams will dance in "St. Louis Woman: A Blues Ballet," with music by Harold Arlen and Johnny Mercer, when his company visits the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark on Saturday at 8 p.m. and next Sunday at 3 p.m. Also on the program is George Balanchine's "Serenade." Information: (888) 466-5722.

Two Commissions
 The sculptors Nikolai Melnikov and Robert Pfitzenmeier have been commissioned to create outdoor artworks for Newport, an office and residential development in Jersey City. The sculptures should be completed next spring.
 Both artists work in Jersey City. Mr. Melnikov, originally from Chisinau, Moldova, has created sculptural portraits of celebrities and business leaders, and earlier this year a show of his work toured Russia. Mr. Pfitzenmeier has produced many large public sculptures, including one for the Anchorage Museum in Alaska and another for the General Aviation Terminal at John F. Kennedy International Airport. The model for his Newport sculpture, above, incorporates sail-like parts that will move in the wind.

Making Money Your Friend
 New Jersey's youth can raise its economic awareness by visiting "Once Upon a Dime: The World of Money," at the Newark Museum at 49 Washington Street. The show runs through June 19, and features an interactive exhibition, as well as programs for families and school groups. The goal is to teach children the history of money, how to manage it and the forces that affect it. Information: (973)596-6550.

Money for Morris County
 For the third consecutive year, the Arts Council of the Morris Area has made 14 grants through a partnership with the Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation. The grants are worth between $3,000 and $5,000, and support theater, music, visual arts and other art-related organizations in Morris County.
 Among the recipients are the Chatham Community Players, for their theater program for the disabled and disadvantaged.
 Mrs. Dodge lived in Morris County, in Madison, from 1916 until she died in 1973, and made supporting the county one of her foundation's missions.

New Jersey Opera in New York
 On Tuesday, Alfredo Silipigni, artistic director of the New Jersey State Opera, is to conduct the New York-based opera company Teatro Grattacielo in the North American premiere of Pietro Mascagni's "Guglielmo Ratcliff." The performance is at 8 p.m. at Lincoln Center's Alice Tully Hall.
 Mascagni, best known for his opera "Cavalleria Rusticana," wrote "Guglielmo Ratcliff" in 1890, when he was nearly destitute, Mr. Silipigni said, and on the advice of his friend, Puccini, decided to write something that would be popular. Since Scottish ghost stories were then in fashion, Mascagni based his opera on such a Scottish tale.
 When he conducts the piece, Mr. Silipigni will use an original, handwritten score from 1895. "There are lots of scratches, but it's the real thing," Mr. Silipigni said. 
 Information: (212)875-5050. Michelle Falkenstein

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (92%); BALLET (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); DANCERS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DANCE EDUCATION (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); FAMILY (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); CHILDREN (73%); EXHIBITIONS (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (68%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (67%); AIRPORTS (65%) Dancing

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS BLUES (55%) Dance Theater of Harlem

PERSON: Donald Williams; Michelle Falkenstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (86%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



560 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: TRANSPORTATION; 
Sprawl and Aviation

BYLINE:  By GEORGE JAMES

 BODY:
WHERE planes once took off from an airport in Manahawkin, people now push shopping carts down the aisles of a giant Wal-Mart. Over in Marlboro, the airport closed last year and developers are seeking to build a housing complex there for the elderly.
 The number of airports like these has declined almost 50 percent in New Jersey since World War II and the onset of suburban sprawl. They are known as general aviation, or public-use, airports. Oddly, their demise comes as the demand for plane use by individuals and corporations has grown, especially since regular airline service was reduced at the state's large commercial airports in Newark, Trenton and Atlantic City and stricter security screening was added after the terrorist attacks of 2001. 
The newest public-use airport in the state, the Spitfire Aerodrome, in Salem County, was built two decades ago, in 1983. Since then, 13 have closed. Since 1950, 37 have closed, dropping the total to 45, according to the State Department of Transportation. The reasons include high operating costs, community hostility and soaring land values as developers scramble for sizable tracts of land on which to build housing, shopping malls and office buildings. 
 "The highest bidders for the properties are developers because this is prime real estate for construction of housing or commercial use or big-box type stores," said the state transportation commissioner, Jack Lettiere. "The prices they pay are extraordinary, and there's tremendous economic pressure on the owner to go that way." 
 Nationally, the number has declined over the last decade by only about 10 percent, to 5,148, according to the Federal Aviation Administration. But, as in New Jersey, most of the public-use airports that closed were owned privately rather than by government entities like counties and municipalities. And Warren Morningstar, vice president for communications at the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association, a trade group in Frederick, Md., said that in 1994 public-use airports were closing at the rate of one a week.
 "Fortunately, that trend has slowed down," Mr. Morningstar said. "We now lose about 15 a year nationwide."
 To stop the decline, many states have begun trying to save the airports by buying them or their development rights. 
 "The solution is to acquire the airports; that's fairly common," said Philip Brito, manager of the New York district office of the F.A.A. "One of our highest priorities is to fund the purchase of an airport by a local community or by the state."
 New Jersey is no exception, but Mr. Lettiere says that here the idea is also to prevent sprawl. In recent years the state has acquired, or helped municipalities and counties to acquire, five airports, and it is acquiring eight more, in part with federal funds. 
 "I think there is a core number of airports -- 17 general aviation airports -- that we believe are a must to preserve and that we have to have in our system, no matter how we do it," Mr. Lettiere said.
 As the state's public-use airports have declined, the number of airstrips and helipads for private use has increased. The F.A.A. lists more than 300. They can be found at corporate office complexes, industrial sites, banks, pharmaceutical companies, nuclear generating stations, hospitals, universities, military installations, farms, golf courses and parks. Even the New Jersey Turnpike Authority has one. 
 But it is the fate of the public-use airports that so concerns the aviation industry and state officials, especially since 30 of the 45 airports of this type are privately owned -- so-called mom-and-pop operations that the state sees as especially vulnerable to sale and non-aviation development because they operate on small profit margins. 
 "New Jersey is a special case," said Mr. Morningstar of the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association. "Unlike other states, the majority are privately owned. No other state has such a high percentage of privately owned public-use airports." 
 The loss of more airports could seriously hinder the state's economy and the national transportation network, experts say. State officials say that 70,000 jobs in the state are linked to civil aviation and that these airports generate more than $4.6 billion a year, according to a 1996 study by the Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission. Most licensed pilots -- New Jersey has some 15,000 -- learn to fly at schools based at the public-use airports.
 "It's going to be difficult for general aviation to operate and develop the pilots in the future," Mr. Brito of the F.A.A. said. "And as airports close, there will be pressure on other airports to handle their activities." 
 In addition, 13 of the state's general aviation airports, including the biggest one, Teterboro, are considered "reliever" airports, which serve smaller craft that otherwise might tie up the larger commercial airports, said Jim Peters, a spokesman for the F.A.A. 
 In one case, the state bought the development rights of the 125-acre Central Jersey Regional Airport in Somerset County last March for $4.2 million after residents opposed a plan to update it. The previous owners continue to operate it, but the state hopes to ease the community opposition by keeping the airport going without enlarging it.
 Similarly, in Sussex County, the fear of a plan by Trinca Airport to expand prompted Green Township to buy it and keep it operating. 
 "Generally speaking," Mr. Lettiere said, "I don't think anyone wants to see airports expand around their communities; it's not our intent to expand them." The intent, he said, is "to preserve the existing footprint at each airport."
 New Jersey also bought development rights at Lincoln Park Airport in Morris County for $4.3 million in 2002. The first acquisition after the state began its airport preservation program was Greenwood Lake Airport in Passaic County, for $1.8 million, in 2000. Other airports that have been saved in the program are South Jersey Regional Airport in Burlington County and the Princeton Airport, said a spokeswoman for the Transportation Department. 
 The state is currently trying to help Monmouth County acquire Allaire Airport, and it is looking to acquire Solberg Airport in Hunterdon County, which Readington Township tried to condemn to stop an expansion plan. The state is also working to acquire Alexandria Airport and Sky Manor Airport, also in Hunterdon County; Blairstown Airport in Warren County; Camden County Airport; Spitfire Aerodrome; and Sussex Airport in Sussex County. 
 Manahawkin Airport closed in 1992, long before the state started its preservation program.
 Marlboro Airport had financial difficulties for years and was closed by new owners in November 2002. But state officials said they did not try to save it because the airport was close to a school and transmission lines and thus was not considered a core operation. Now, the proposal for building housing on the site is at a standstill as debate continues over zoning amendments.
 Hugh McElroy, chairman of the New Jersey Aviation Association, a trade group of aviation professionals, said the state's program to save airports was "a step in the right direction."
 "But it's far from a panacea," he added. "From an economic standpoint, it would be prohibitive. There need to be other activities to augment the state's effort and it needs to be done on a case-by-case basis." 
 Governor McGreevey had such issues in mind last month when he established a commission to study the state's general aviation airport system and report back in a year. 
 The commission is to take an inventory of all airports, review their finances and identify their role based on location and user demand. It is also to consider preservation efforts beyond public acquisition of privately owned airports and recommend ways to rehabilitate and preserve the airports.
 Mr. Lettiere said the commission would try to ensure that whatever development occurs in and around airports does not create more sprawl. "We can't separate transportation, even aviation, from smart growth," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A sign at the entrance is friendly, but the Marlboro Airport is closed, one of 37 in the state that have shut since 1950. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (93%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); AIRLINES (89%); COUNTIES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); SUBURBS (76%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); RETAILERS (73%); WORLD WAR II (56%); TERRORISM (54%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%) Airlines and Airplanes; Airports

PERSON: George James

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (72%); FREDERICK, MD, USA (71%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



561 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1993 words

HEADLINE: Wanted: More Campus Housing 

BYLINE:  By DEBRA NUSSBAUM

 BODY:
LAST April, Montclair State University held a lottery for students interested in the Village at Little Falls -- a new 850-bed dormitory complex -- with four students to a unit sharing a living room, a kitchen, two bathrooms and three or four bedrooms. In a matter of hours, the complex was filled and a waiting list was started.
 The phenomenon was hardly surprising. At colleges around New Jersey, campus housing fills up as quickly as it can be built -- all in the hopes of keeping the best and the brightest in the state from attending colleges and universities in Pennsylvania, Maryland and Delaware. 
 Not only are more high school graduates in New Jersey going to college these days, but while students were once content to head home after class each afternoon, today they are looking for college life. "Students want a campus experience," said Dr. Susan A. Cole, president of Montclair State University. "They want to go away to college, to have the experience of living on a campus." 
 Yet as the number of college-age students continues to rise, campus housing remains in short supply -- even though there has been a building frenzy at Rowan University and Ramapo College as well as Montclair State.
 Dr. Cole noted that in terms of percentages, New Jersey ranked 45th of the 50 states as far as the number of undergraduate and graduate students it can educate at its public colleges and universities -- about 140,000 places in a state of more than 8.5 million people. 
 One solution, she said, was a change in policy at the state level that would make it easier for private developers to build housing on college campuses. "We are trying to develop more creative mechanisms," Dr. Cole said. "Then we don't have to be in the housing construction business. We're not developers; we're educational institutions."
 The fact is, New Jersey loses about 20,000 college students a year to other states, exporting about 55 percent of the students who want to earn an undergraduate degree, Dr. Cole said. "One of the things New Jersey has not done over the last few decades," she said, "is build the type of campuses other schools have built."
 Over the past several years, many of New Jersey's colleges and universities have evolved from commuter schools to suitcase colleges -- where students flee on Friday and return on Monday -- to campuses in which students live and stick around on the weekends. But New Jersey's schools are struggling to build fast enough for the new live-in student. 
 In addition, the lagging economy combined with the allure of smaller tuition payments has led to higher enrollments in the state's public colleges and universities. "In-state tuition definitely keeps a lot of people here," said Bob Quarteroni, a spokesman at Montclair State, "especially with everybody losing jobs these days."
 In 1998, there were 42,637 undergraduates at the state's public universities and 66,707 students at the colleges. By 2002, those numbers had grown to 45,094 at the universities and 71,001 at the colleges. At the same time, the number of full-time students jumped from 34,578 at the universities to 38,147 and from 42,848 in 1998 at the colleges to 48,085, according to the state's Commission on Higher Education. 
 "We have heard that more students want the residential opportunity," said Jeanne Oswald, deputy executive director of the commission, which does not involve itself in housing issues. "But it is left up to the individual campuses to decide how much housing they want to provide for students."
 Colleges, well aware of the demand for more housing, have been chipping away at the shortage, but there is a long way to go. 
 For instance, at Rutgers-Camden, where enrollment has increased to 5,800 students today from 4,750 in 1996, there are only 500 beds on campus. Mark Rozewski, associate provost for administration and finance, said the university was planning to build housing for about 500 more students over the next two years. "We're in the same boat as almost every other school in New Jersey," Mr. Rozewski said. "We are actively putting together a public and private partnership to build 500 more beds and another 500 after that."
 Part of the problem is the changing nature of the student population. At Rowan in nearby Glassboro, one in three students was part time only 10 years ago, as against one in six today. Dr. Donald Farish, who has been president of the university since 1998, said that when he arrived at Rowan, two-thirds of the students were from South Jersey. Now, Dr. Farish said, about half of the school's 9,600 undergraduate and graduate students are from other parts of the state, and 5 percent are from outside New Jersey.
 "There was a time you could set off a cannon on a weekend and not hit anybody," he said. "But that has changed. At any given moment, there is vibrant activity going on here."
 Dr. Farish explained that in 2001, 900 of the 1,200 freshmen asked to live in dormitories on campus and that the following year more than than 1,100 of the 1,250 freshmen wanted dorm rooms.
 "They think living on campus is part of the educational process, and I tend to agree," he said. "We have seen this gradual growth, and suddenly it was a crisis."
 For now, Rowan, which has about 5,600 full-time undergraduates, is short about 450 beds, said Joe Cardona, director of university relations. About 350 students are the third person in what were intended to be double rooms. In an effort to keep up with demand, Mr. Cardona said, the university plans to break ground on a 450-student townhouse complex before the end of the year. 
 "We've been tripling students who want to live on campus for the past four years," he said. "We are transforming ourselves to meet the needs of the students. There's been a shift in the type of students."
 At Ramapo College in Mahwah, where more than 5,600 undergraduate and graduate students are enrolled, new housing was built in 1999, 2000 and 2002, said Bonnie Franklin, a spokeswoman for the college, who added that students were "clamoring to stay on campus." 
 "We do have a housing crunch," Ms. Franklin said. "We've had a housing crunch for several years now. We are growing because of demographics and demand."
 Eight years ago, enrollment at Ramapo was about 4,800 students, with about 1,100 of them living on campus. Three years ago, she said, the college was leasing rooms at a Holiday Inn in nearby Suffern, N.Y., to house some of the overflow. Today, 2,400 students live in campus housing.
 One reason for the housing crunch, Ms. Franklin explained, is that students are staying for all four years rather than transferring after a year or two. For instance, in 2002, 87.1 percent of the freshman class stayed for sophomore year, while in 1994 that number was only 72.9 percent.
 "Students want the whole college experience," she said. "They want to participate in the extracurricular activities. That's what happens when you have a critical mass on campus. It means you have to provide facilities to develop the whole student."
 In addition to adding dormitory space, Ms. Franklin said, in the spring Ramapo plans to open a sports and recreation center with workout rooms, a climbing wall, juice bars and places to eat.
 Ramapo was not the only school to recognize the need for student facilities in addition to more living space. Dr. Karen Pennington, vice president for student development and campus life at Montclair State, said she and her staff tried to challenge the notion that students would go home on weekends because there was not enough to do on campus. Two years ago, the university opened a 24-hour diner on campus with activities like karaoke nights. 
 "Students seek a place where they can belong," Dr. Pennington said.
 While the College of New Jersey in Ewing, with a student enrollment of 5,400, is not facing as much of a shortage as other campuses, said Patrice Coleman-Boatwright, director of college and community relations, housing is filled to capacity and it is often difficult for transfer students to find on-campus housing. Currently, Ms. Coleman-Boatwright said, there are 3,500 beds on campus, about 95 percent of which are filled by freshmen and sophomores. "Our niche is that this is a residential experience," she said.
 As Ms. Coleman-Boatwright explained, the school began changing from a commuter college to a residential campus in the late 1980's. "We realized we could really strengthen our educational experience that way," she said. "Our students are telling us that they want to live on campus."
 Indeed, she said the school's is able to retain 95 percent of its freshmen partly because of its ability to provide a life on the campus.
 Then there is the main campus of Rutgers in New Brunswick, the state's largest university campus with about 35,000 students -- 13,800 of whom live in campus housing.
 Kyu-Jung Whang, the university's vice present for facilities and capital planning, said that with the exception of this school year, there has in recent times been a waiting list for campus housing. 
 While Rutgers may not need additional units at the moment, Mr. Whang said, "we do need to upgrade the quality of our dorms." In addition, he said, the university is working with a development agency in New Brunswick on plans for two more dormitories -- one on the main campus and another at Douglass, the women's college of Rutgers.
 Yet with cutbacks in state financing and the number of students increasing on most state campuses, universities and colleges must also wrestle with some hard choices like whether to spend limited funds on housing or on academic buildings.
 "We cannot increase our capacity without extra support from Trenton," said Mr. Cardona of Rowan.
 At Montclair State, where the student population is now at 11,375 undergraduates and 3,829 graduate students -- up 3,000 students in the past five years -- Dr. Cole has become a leading spokeswoman on the issue of under-building at the state's colleges and universities.
 "The challenge facing New Jersey is whether or not the political will can be created to address the state's benign neglect of its public colleges and universities and whether or not a truly comprehensive and far-sighted plan for meeting the state'sbroad higher education needs can emerge from the current deliberations," she wrote last April in New Jersey Reporter, a magazine that focuses on public issues. "It would be an error to think that New Jersey does not have to educate its own workforce. It would be an error to think that New Jersey can continue to off-load the costs of higher education onto individual families. It would be an error to think that New Jerseyans will accept a situation in which an increasing number of young people will be turned away from state colleges and universities because there simply is no room for them."
 In the meantime, students at schools like Rowan and Montclair will bunk up with three in a room.
 Jennifer Savitsky of Oradell rooms with two other freshmen at Rowan. Ms. Savitsky knew all summer that she would be living with Natalie Gericke of Deptford, but she did not know until a week before classes started that Meggan Haig of Ocean View would also be moving in. "Everybody made it work," she said. "When we first got here, things were a little tense between us, but after the first week it all melted away. Everyone is on different schedules."
 The three freshmen have managed to get beds and desks for everyone along with a microwave, a television and two computers in their room in Evergreen Hall. In addition, they will each be getting at least a $300 refund because they are living three in a room.
 For Ms. Haig, one of 11 children at home in Cape May County, living with two other women is not a challenge. She does much of her studying in the library and goes home most weekends to work as a waitress.
 "It's actually fairly easy for me," she said. "At home, I share a room with three of my sisters. I actually have more room here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Three students -- Luisana Rosario, left, Clarisa Bido, center, and Vivian Acosta -- share a dormitory room at Montclair State University in Little Falls. (Photo by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)(pg. 1); John Barbadoro, left in top photo, and Keith Heimer, share a room at Rowan University, where for now, at least, there is a shortage of dormitory space. At Montclair State, above, a new 850-bed complex filled up in a matter of hours. (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); STUDENT HOUSING (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%) Colleges and Universities; Dormitories 

PERSON: Debra Nussbaum

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



562 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: GOVERNMENT; 
Spano Budget Bears Few Good Tidings

BYLINE:  By MAREK FUCHS

 BODY:
WHEN the Westchester County budget proposal for 2004 was made public not long ago, it bore few glad tidings. And one of the worst pieces of news for many people was that the budget plan relies on an increase in the sales tax in the county, where residents may already feel that they are being taxed within an inch of their lives.
 The prospects for the sales tax increase are not clear. The $1.4 billion budget proposal by County Executive Andrew J. Spano relies on a nearly $100 million revenue stream from a sales tax increase. But sales tax increases can be passed only in a cumbersome process that requires both local and state approval. And though some Democrats and Republicans in both Albany and Westchester are voicing a small degree of encouragement to the sales tax increase, the outlook is still murky. 
 The same tax was rejected by the State Legislature earlier this year, when Mr. Spano tried to get it for his 2003 budget. Mr. Spano says this year things will be different.
 Mr. Spano is contrite about his previous loss, saying that he failed in his quest because he criticized the state too strongly. 
 "We've built up relationships with State Legislatures during the year," he said. "We didn't have that last time." Mr. Spano, a Democrat in his second term as county executive, put the odds of the sales tax passage this go round at 60/40 in his favor.
 Nicholas Spano, a Republican state senator from Yonkers and no relation to the county executive, said it was too early to gauge the prospects. He added: "The county executive has started the debate on a constructive and positive note. We want to help." 
 Any sales tax increase would not apply to the county's four largest cities, Yonkers, White Plains, Mount Vernon and New Rochelle, where the sales tax is already at the legal limit. Elsewhere in the county, the proposed sales tax increase will amount to 1 cent on every taxable dollar spent, bringing the total percentage people will pay at the check-out counter (which includes others taxes like state sales tax) to eight percent, from the current seven percent. 
 If the sales tax increase does not pass, Mr. Spano will have to seek either corresponding services cuts or an increase in Westchester's already high property tax burden. 
 As the current budget proposal stands, factoring in the sales tax revenue, roughly 250 jobs would be cut from the county' s Department of Social Services and Health Department. Additional jobs that aren't currently filled will be eliminated. There will also be a two percent increase in county property taxes. Despite these trims, spending in 2004 will still be up about five percent. Mr. Spano, the county executive, said the discretionary portion of the budget has been "cut to the bone." He attributes the increase to state mandates for items like Medicaid. 
 Others, like George Oros, a Republican and the minority whip in the County Legislature, also blame the still-growing budget on profligate spending locally on items like golf courses. 
 Westchester still receives an Aaa bond rating from Moody's, the rating agency, which is an indicator of Moody's faith in the county's fiscal health. With or without a sales tax increase, the county has received a warning from Moody's that the rating may change. 
 Westchester is not alone in its financial woe. The effects of extravagant spending back when times were flush, state mandates and a national economy that has, until recently, been weak have conspired toput many counties in a difficult financial position. 
 In the usual process, to provide political cover for the state, the county board of legislators will usually call for introduction of a state bill allowing for a local sales tax increase. This step was skipped last year. If the State Assembly introduces the bill, it then is endorsed by the County Legislature. The state then votes, and only after it passes that stage can the county can enact it on a majority vote. Mr. Spano said he is certain he has the nine votes needed for final passage from the County Legislature. 
 Whatever ultimately happens in Albany, the County Legislature must pass a budget by the end of the year. The sales tax approval process, however, will most probably stretch into 2004, with the State Assembly currently in recess until January. As a result, said County Executive Spano, the county will probably have to pass two budgets--one with the sales tax and another contingency budget. This will help maintain the bond rating, he said. 
 Some tax experts criticize sales taxes, saying they punish the poor, but the county executive disagrees. He points to the fact that sales tax in the four cities, where many of the county's poor live, are already higher. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); SALES TAX (94%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (91%); COUNTIES (91%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%) Taxation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Sales Tax

PERSON: Andrew J (County Exec) Spano; Marek Fuchs

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%) Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



563 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Tech Workers Struggle To Answer Overseas Threat 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOEPPEL

 BODY:
STOCKING shelves and hauling boxes on the graveyard shift at Target was something Ed Marx never imagined he would be doing. After 27 years as a computer programmer, Mr. Marx said, he thought his technology skills ensured he would be employed in that field for many years. 
 It has not turned out that way. In August 2002, Mr. Marx, 49, lost his job at the Computer Sciences Corporation, a technology contractor and services company in Moorestown, N.J. Mr. Marx and his company say he was a victim of offshore outsourcing, known as offshoring. Unable, so far, to find a full-time job in his field, he has been working at Target since September. 
 Seeing examples like Mr. Marx, many technology workers have become increasingly concerned and angry about offshore contracts, which can cause certain jobs or whole departments to be moved to countries like India and China, where technology workers are paid lower wages. 
Information technology industries have "led the initial overseas exodus," according to a study by Forrester Research, published in November 2002. In a survey of 400 hiring managers in May, the Information Technology Association found that 12 percent of the information technology companies in the survey had moved jobs offshore, compared with 6 percent of the nontechnology companies. 
"I feel to some extent the train has already left, and I'm not sure how it can be reversed," Mr. Marx said. "The layoff has had a profound effect on me. It's difficult walking away from something you've been doing for 27 years. There used to be two pages of tech jobs in the classified section. Now there's maybe one column." 
Many American technology workers whose jobs have not been moved offshore say that they are being offered lower salaries than in the past. "It's a total deflation period" for information technology workers, said John C. McCarthy, a Forrester Research group director who led the firm's offshoring study. Many technology workers "can expect to make at least 20 percent less than they did during the boom," he said.
Many experts are stressing that technology workers must upgrade their skills and are advising them to shift their sights to sectors that are still hiring.
Wireless technology, broadband and security technology are all growing fields, according to John Challenger, chief executive of Challenger, Gray & Christmas, an international outplacement consulting firm. Mr. Challenger also recommends that tech workers consider looking into government and military technology, health care and pharmaceuticals. 
"When the dot-com bubble burst it was the end of skyrocketing I.T. salaries," Mr. Challenger said. "It's important for I.T. workers to make sure their skills are not outdated."
The proponents of offshoring see it as an effective solution to rapidly rising costs. An August report by the McKinsey Global Institute, a research group that is part of McKinsey & Company, called offshoring a win-win situation for the global economy and asserted that it allowed American companies to not only reduce their costs but also reap larger profits by investing in new businesses at home.
That study said that an Indian software developer could make as little as $6 an hour, compared with $60 an hour for an American. 
Atul Vashistha, the chief executive of neoIT, a California-based company that specializes in advising companies on moving work overseas, and whose clients include Siemens and Lucent Technologies, said that most of the jobs being outsourced overseas are "lower end" positions in data processing and programming.
But Marcus Courtney, president of the Washington Alliance of Technology Workers, a union affiliated with the Communications Workers of America, said high-level white-collar workers were just as endangered as anyone else.
"Any job can be exported, irrespective of skills," he said. "This goes beyond training and education. Employees shouldn't snow themselves into believing that if they have an advanced certification or an M.B.A., their job can't be sent overseas."
Mr. Courtney's organization opposes the growing offshoring tide by trying to promote public awareness and political action. He said that his group was fighting for legislation like the bill being considered in the New Jersey Legislature that would allow only United States citizens to work on certain state contracts.
But Joseph Stubblebine, the chief executive of JobCircle.com, an online job board geared to technology professionals in the Northeast, said tech workers should focus on learning in-demand skills like Java and Linux programming. Mr. Stubblebine said that well-rounded tech workers who could strike a balance between business, social and technology skills would best survive the upheaval.
"Tech folks that understand what a business needs will survive," he said. "Someone who just writes codes and sits in the corner will not."
Bill Beck, a 50-year-old unemployed programmer, has developed new skills but also said he had a contingency plan. Mr. Beck, a native of Tyrone, Ga., has been laid off twice since 2001, but he has taken courses in HTML and advanced Java.
Although he is reluctant to give up on a career that has lasted 20 years, he recently enrolled in a six-week class in real estate appraisal, a field he plans to enter if he cannot find work in technology. He said that his former employer began outsourcing programming jobs to India several years ago.
Mr. Beck contemplated a move for a job in Pennsylvania but learned that the position would pay 40 percent less than his previous salary.
Mark Higby of Granby, Conn., said he planned to upgrade his credentials. He is looking into certification programs in security technology and is considering studying for an M.B.A.
While he does not attribute the loss of his position in infrastructure maintenance and design last year to work contracted overseas, he said he did believe that offshoring had made his job search tougher. After his layoff, Mr. Higby said, he was forced to declare bankruptcy so he could retain his home for his wife and 2-year-old son.
After nine months of looking for work, Mr. Higby landed a part-time consulting job with Pepperidge Farm and recently interviewed for a full-time technology position in Rhode Island. His wife started working part time at Starbucks so that the family could afford health insurance.
But Mr. Higby, 49, does not express bitterness about offshoring. "It's all about being as competitive as you can be," he said. "I'm not going to get depressed. I'm not going to give up. I want to be a big-picture guy. I don't want to go after jobs that are moving offshore, I don't want to chase after something that's running away." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ed Marx lost his programming job last year after his employer sent the work overseas. (Photo by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); OFFSHORING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (89%); OUTSOURCING (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); RELOCATIONS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (64%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (62%); BROADBAND (60%) Computers and the Internet; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Wages and Salaries; Relocation of Business

COMPANY: COMPUTER SCIENCES CORP (84%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%); CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (51%)

TICKER: CSC (NYSE) (84%); FORR (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: Edward Marx; David Koeppel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



564 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: Health Insurance For All Americans? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In "The Universal Cure" (Op-Ed, Nov. 18), Ezekiel J. Emanuel and Victor R. Fuchs do not note one important disadvantage of employer-based health insurance: its failure to provide adequate preventive coverage (which can save lives and costs), especially to workers in high-turnover service-sector jobs. 
Employers are reluctant to pay since a worker's future employer would reap the benefits. 
 In the Netherlands, which has universal, individual-based health insurance without employer involvement, it is not unusual for people to be enrolled for 20 years or more with the same insurer, providing ample incentive for provision of preventive benefits.

WARREN GREENBERG
Washington, Nov. 18, 2003

The writer is a professor of health economics at George Washington University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INSURANCE (87%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (87%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: Warren (Prof) Greenberg; Ezekiel J (Dr) Emanuel; Victor R (Dr) Fuchs

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (74%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



565 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Schenectady Hits a New Low, And There's No Edison in Sight 

BYLINE:  By MICHELLE YORK

 BODY:
Schenectady -- once so lively that Thomas Edison moved a company there and it grew into General Electric -- has experienced such a downhill slide that on Thursday, Moody's Investors Service gave the city the lowest credit rating of any municipality in New York State. 
 "It's probably about a clear a signal as anyone could receive that the city has to do something dramatic," the departing mayor, Albert P. Jurczynski, said in a telephone interview. Mr. Jurczynski chose not to run for re-election after facing much criticism for the city's economic woes. 
 According to the report by Moody's, however, it is clear that no one person is to blame. 
Like many older cities around the country, Schenectady has experienced a huge loss of manufacturing jobs. General Electric, its main employer, once had 40,000 people on the payroll, compared with about 8,000 today. 
"Schenectady was never prepared for that," said the director of communications for the Chamber of Commerce, Marc DeNofio. "The city had a tough time," he said. "It just wasn't competitive. No other big company was ever solicited." 
Perhaps even more damaging is the population decrease in Schenectady, which lies 18 miles northwest of Albany. It has lost 30,000 people since 1950. In the 2000 census, the population stood at 61,821, a 33 percent decline over 50 years. 
Attempts to fix Schenectady's problems have ranged from raising property taxes by 25 percent in 2003 to urging Guyanese immigrants to relocate from Queens. Mr. Jurczynski promoted his community as a place in which they could experience urban living, but in a much larger house than they could buy in the New York City region. 
"It's one of the best things Schenectady has going for it," said Mr. Jurczynski of his recruitment program, which he credits with attracting as many as 5,000 Guyanese. "They have a similar work ethic of my Polish grandparents, and they're buying up older homes and renovating them." 
But the programs have not done enough, according to Moody's. "They have deteriorating financial conditions," said Edith Behr, a vice president and senior analyst. 
In Schenectady's 2004 budget, which includes a tax increase of 7.8 percent, city officials did not include police overtime and wage increases for two unions negotiating with the city, leaving analysts convinced that the municipality's projected deficit of $250,000 would balloon.
One of the city's parking garages poses a major problem, having lost money each year since 2000, resulting in a deficit of more than $2.5 million, according to Moody's report. 
Officials are negotiating the garage's sale to Metroplex, the Schenectady County-sponsored economic development agency, but talks have not dealt with that deficit, and if the city has to bear that debt and other losses, the municipality will see an overall deficit of about $4 million, according to the Moody's report. 
Because of those factors, Moody's lowered Schenectady's bond rating to Ba2 from Ba1, making it and Cicero, a town 10 miles north of Syracuse, the lowest-rated of 364 rated municipalities in the state. 
In 1996, Mayor Jurczynski suggested that the city abolish itself and consolidate services with Schenectady County. The reaction was so negative, though, that he said he felt like he "ran into a buzz saw." 
But now that he is leaving and the Moody's report is dismal, Mr. Jurczynski said he hoped the new administration would reconsider at least a version of his proposal. 
Meanwhile, he said, Schenectady is rebuilding its downtown and working with several organizations that help regions recruit high-tech firms. 
That's welcome news to the Chamber of Commerce. "Hopefully, we're going to be innovators again," Mr. DeNofio said. "We've hit rock bottom. We can't go any lower, so the only way to go is up. It's not going to happen tomorrow, but in 10 years from now, hopefully Schenectady will be back on the map." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (84%); LAYOFFS (78%); TRENDS (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); MAYORS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POPULATION DECLINE (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); OVERTIME (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); CENSUS (71%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); TAX LAW (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%) Ratings and Rating Systems; Credit; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor; Unemployment; Population

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (91%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Moody's Investors Service

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%) SIC2721 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: Michelle York

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Schenectady (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



566 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 2928 words

HEADLINE: Spoiling (Carefully) for a Fight 

BYLINE:  By Matt Bai; Matt Bai, a contributing writer, will be covering the 2004 campaign for the magazine.

 BODY:
In a green-and-beige hotel suite overlooking the Detroit River, John Edwards sits cross-legged, his back to the bleak Canadian vista, absently bouncing his stockinged foot. The day started so inspiringly, with Edwards, the North Carolina senator and presidential candidate, bounding up to the pulpits of two African-American churches and energizing crowds who'd never heard of him. ("The Lord is in this place!" he shouted, to elated calls of "Yes, sir!") But now, a few hours later, here he is in Room 661 of the Renaissance Center Marriott, surrounded by a circle of half a dozen senior aides who are prepping him for tonight's Democratic debate. Nodding impatiently as he shifts in his chair, Edwards has the look of a man whose date has dragged him to a foreign film.
 David Ginsberg, Edwards's communications director, tells him that the organizers of the debate, the Congressional Black Caucus and Fox News, have notified them that there won't be a discussion on foreign policy. This is good news for a campaign staked on domestic issues, but Edwards shakes his head warily. "They'll never get through this thing without talking about Iraq," he says. 
In the five previous debates, Edwards's strategy has been to avoid the verbal darts the other candidates have been aiming at one another. Instead of garnering headlines with one-liners, Edwards has been hoping to reach the voters watching at home with talk of his "Real Solutions for America" plan, a booklet full of policy proposals. The strategy isn't working out so well. Current polls have him close to the back of the pack, jockeying for position with Al Sharpton. 
Ginsberg and other aides have recently begun prodding Edwards to be more aggressive, to make his presence felt, to mix it up in some of the testier exchanges. "We all agree that you did really well with the last debate, getting engaged in the fight," Ginsberg says. 
"And we've seen, in the last two weeks, Dean lumping his opponents all together and attacking them as Washington insiders," Ginsberg continues. "You're not from Washington."
Edwards sits up. "This is something I want to know," he says. "How long has Dean been in politics?" Edwards himself has been in public life for only five years, and he can't quite understand how Dean has managed to cast him as just another Washington lifer.
"Since 1986, right?" Ginsberg says, looking around. 
Christina Reynolds, Edwards's research director, begins typing away on her laptop.
"What did he do before that?" Edwards asks. "Just practiced medicine? For how long? And where? At a hospital?"
Reynolds looks up from her computer. "Exactly 20 years, that's how long he's been in politics, Senator." Edwards nods thoughtfully. 
The advisers point out some other weak spots. Dick Gephardt has been linking Dean to Newt Gingrich because Dean once spoke in favor of raising the retirement age for entitlements. Perhaps Edwards should join in. "That's absurd," Edwards says dismissively. "No one believes he's like Gingrich. I think we just need to say that he wanted to limit the cost of Medicare, which is exactly what the Republicans wanted to do."
Then there is Wesley Clark's war position; he has been criticized for a lack of clarity. Edwards shakes his head. "I don't think I want to be in that," he says. "I just don't really want to go there."
Edwards seems chiefly concerned with how best to talk about his plan for the economy. On one hand, he has a series of proposals to create jobs. But he also likes to rail against the growing tax burden on working families.
"I just need to know whether you would rather have me hit jobs or work force," he tells the group. "Because it's very hard to do both in 60 seconds."
Edwards and his wife, Elizabeth, are partial to the jobs argument. His aides are more invested in the workers-versus-the-wealthy message -- which leaves Edwards groping for a clear answer. 
Robert Gordon, a young policy expert with an almost freakish recall of arcane data on every conceivable subject, suggests that Edwards talk about wage-earners first. "If you have enough time left, you could still talk about jobs," he says.
"There's just not enough time," Edwardsreplies. "Sixty seconds is just not very much." He sighs dejectedly and rubs his head. "What would you say about prescription drugs?" he asks. "I mean, if I had three minutes, I could crush it. But what can I say in 60 seconds?"
I have embedded myself, to use the latest Washington lingo, with Edwards's debate team because I want to know if presidential debates like this one, packed with so many candidates and coming so early in the primary season, are anything more than a pointless ritual. The Detroit showdown is, remarkably, the sixth full-scale debate among the Democratic hopefuls this year. While the debates do have the value of articulating a broad Democratic critique of the president's agenda, the campaign staffs have largely come to see them as black holes in the schedule, sucking candidates away from their chosen battlegrounds. The viewing audiences, meanwhile, have dwindled to the point at which, if this were some new reality series, it would have been canceled midseason.
I'm also wondering whether a guy like John Edwards can do what lesser-known candidates have traditionally done, which is to use the debates to establish his relevance to the race. Long touted as a Southern successor to Bill Clinton, Edwards has a trial lawyer's courtly eloquence, the most coherent set of policy proposals in the field and -- hands down -- the best hair in politics. But unlike the voluble Sharpton or the squarish Joe Lieberman, Edwards has struggled to define himself with voters.
It's not for lack of trying; perhaps because he looks so polished, Edwards spends much of his time repeating, at a rate of about once every 40 heartbeats, that he grew up in a tiny town and that his father worked in a mill. It's true, but it also sounds canned and thus has the effect of distancing him from the very working-class ideal he's trying to embrace. 
The Detroit debate doesn't open auspiciously. As Edwards suspected, the first round of questioning is all about Iraq. The voices of the candidates bounce off the ornate walls of the historic Fox Theater and make their way up to the battered old dressing room above the stage where the Edwards team watches the live feed on TV. "They always do this," Ginsberg complains, referring to the organizers. "They just lied. They said there was no foreign-policy section. We had three conference calls with them."
The Iraq grilling goes on for a full 45 minutes. "John's going to kill us," Ginsberg says, slumping in his chair.
Edwards gets only five questions all night, which he answers adequately -- and forgettably. His final question comes in a round in which Gwen Ifill, the PBS reporter, is asking all of the candidates about their perceived weaknesses. "The expectations for you were so high in the beginning that you were on the cover of Newsweek magazine," Ifill says. (It isn't true, though Edwards might wish it were.) "What happened?"
There are low groans in the dressing room.
"First of all, nothing happened," Edwards says, unhelpfully. He is the fourth candidate to answer in this round, and yet he seems a little taken aback by the question. "I'm doing great in Iowa, moving up in New Hampshire, got a double-digit lead in the state of South Carolina. I'm very proud of what's happening in my campaign." He gets hold of the wheel and steers himself onto the familiar tracks of his stump speech. "I am fighting for, in this campaign, the very people that I grew up with," he says, "people like my father, who worked in a mill all his life." 
"What a bunch of silly questions," Ginsberg says, looking away from the TV.
After the debate, Edwards and most of the other candidates are hustled into what's known as "Spin Alley." It's one of the stranger scenes in American politics: aides hold up placards that say "Edwards" or "Dean," and reporters and cameramen swarm like wasps around whichever candidate interests them most. The whole thing resembles a kind of adolescent playground nightmare, with all the cool kids getting chosen while the less coordinated players wait awkwardly under their placards. At one debate this fall, aides to Representative Dennis Kucinich literally grabbed wandering reporters and implored them to come interview their boss.
Several reporters surround Edwards. There are more questions about why he isn't winning the race, but none on his policies.
The debate wasn't a total loss, Gordon tells me hopefully as we leave the theater. "We got attacked," he says, "and we got named a few times."
More than anything else, presidential debates are remembered for specific moments. George H.W. Bush checking his watch. Al Gore sighing repeatedly. Ronald Reagan, in a primary debate, scolding, "I paid for this microphone!" (Lou Cannon, a Reagan biographer, wrote that Reagan tended to ignore policy questions in debate prep, preferring to practice one-liners.) Such moments give narrative to personalities; they enable us to understand, in a concrete way, what it is we like or disdain about a candidate. They also generate headlines. It's not the 10 things you say in a debate that matter; it's the one that leads the evening news and the next day's paper. 
The general consensus this fall is that there are too many candidates and too many debates, and that they sound about as spontaneous as a George Foreman infomercial.
"They're not debates," Paul Begala, one of the party's leading debate strategists, said. "You have a collection of people with their canned lines, some of them good and some of them not good, and they just recite them in random order. In fact, maybe we should just do that. 'Senator Kerry, could you please give us your line on Medicare?"'
Begala said the best way to fix this mess would be to somehow winnow the field, giving a smaller number of candidates more time to answer each question. When I repeated this suggestion to Sharpton, who has clearly been the most agile debater thus far, he scoffed. "What are we really talking about?" he asked. "A minute or two? It's not like some of them were on the verge of brilliance and then somebody cut them off!"
I asked Sharpton to rate the debating skills of his rivals. Gephardt and Kucinich show the most passion, Sharpton said, while Lieberman is the most sure of his convictions. "He don't care if they heckle or boo, that's who he is. I respect it." Dean, he said, "can come off as arrogant or even mean-spirited." Sharpton likened Kerry to a prizefighter who scores well in every round but never lands the knockout punch.
I asked him about Edwards. "He suffers from his handlers maybe building something up that he couldn't live up to," Sharpton said, sympathetically. "I don't blame him for that. I think sometimes you can be overpromoted, and it can hurt you in the end."
Some Democratic insiders, including at least one friend of the senator's, suggested to me that Edwards might have something to gain by remaining tepid. The 50-year-old candidate, who has already said that he will give up his Senate seat, would be a natural pick for vice president should he lose the nomination, and his chances will be better if he doesn't savage the eventual nominee.
Then again, if Edwards still has any chance of winning the nomination, it rests in his ability to differentiate himself as a fighting Southerner. The best possibility for Edwards goes like this: Dean beats Kerry and Gephardt in Iowa and New Hampshire, and Edwards takes South Carolina, setting up a showdown between Dean and Edwards as they head into the remaining Southern primaries. If that's the plan, Edwards needs to convince Southern voters that Dean isn't the friend of disadvantaged blacks and white rural men that he purports to be. And that means that at some point, Edwards may have to pick a fight. 
He gets his chance a few days later, when Dean tells The Des Moines Register that he wants to be "the candidate for guys with Confederate flags in their pickup trucks." The comment draws angry rebukes from Sharpton and other candidates, who say it's racially insensitive. Edwards is furious for a different reason: he thinks Dean, the New Englander, doesn't understand that most Southerners don't drive trucks with Confederate flags. For Edwards, Dean epitomizes the kind of Northern elitist who insists on seeing the South as it used to be, not as it is.
On the morning of the next debate, a "Rock the Vote" youth event at Faneuil Hall in Boston, the staff gathers in Edwards's Washington home to discuss this new opportunity at length. Edwards agrees to raise the issue, but he's reluctant to turn it into a more personal confrontation. Even after his plane lands in Boston, he tells his aides, "I don't want this to be about Howard Dean."
It takes only three questions for a black audience member to confront Dean about his remark. Seemingly stunned by the question, Dean digs in, becoming flustered and defensive. Behind his podium, Edwards smolders, his resentments about class and region building. Edwards sees his opening, and like any good cross-examiner, he won't let it pass.
"Let me bring in Senator Edwards with his comments," says CNN's Anderson Cooper, the moderator.
"Well, let me say, first of all, unless I missed something, Governor Dean still has not said he was wrong," Edwards begins. "Were you wrong, Howard? Were you wrong to say that?"
Dean looks as if a beam has just broken loose from the ceiling and landed at his feet. "No, I wasn't, John Edwards," he replies, and he defends his statement yet again. As Dean struggles, Edwards takes a few menacing steps toward him, and then he strides onto center stage.
"Let me tell you," Edwards seethes. "The last thing we need in the South is somebody like you coming down and telling us what we need to do. That's the last thing in the world we need in the South." Surprisingly, the Boston crowd bursts into cheers. 
He pivots the issue expertly back toward the youthful audience, just as he and his aides discussed in his living room. "One of the problems that we have with young people today is people talk down to you," Edwards says in his best lawyer's drawl, index fingers jabbing the air. "Exactly the same thing happens with people from the South. I have seen it. I have grown up with it. I'm here to tell you it is wrong. It is condescending. And the only way that we as a party are going to win the White House back is to reach out to everybody and treat them with the dignity and respect that they're entitled to."
The applause is heartfelt. "He got just plain mad!" Ginsberg says in the hotel suite, grinning. 
Reynolds looks up from her laptop. "He was awesome!" she says. "That's the best I've ever seen him."
At the commercial break, Jano Cabrera, Lieberman's spokesman, wanders into the Edwards suite and swipes some M&M's. "That was great, by theway," he says. "That was un-be-liev-able."
In Spin Alley this time, the reporters are crowded three deep around Edwards. Ginsberg stands nearby, lost in his BlackBerry. The Associated Press is moving an article on the debate, and Edwards is quoted in the second paragraph. 
Edwards is hustled onto the set of a live radio show. "When you get the stage, you make a hell of an impression, Senator," the host says admiringly. Edwards stays on long enough to reprise his condemnation of Dean and talk about his love for Bruce Springsteen -- the kind of personal detail reporters hadn't been asking about much before tonight. Then he steps out into the plaza at Quincy Market, striding through the raw ocean air with a new, purposeful swagger. He slaps a cop on the shoulder and shakes the hand of a sound-truck engineer.
I mention to his press secretary, Jennifer Palmieri, that he seems happy.
"Oh, yeah, he's happy," she says. "You do get your moment. You have to wait sometimes, but you do get it."
There's a buzz on board the "Real Solutions Express," Edwards's state-of-the-art campaign bus, as it chugs up Route 95 in New Hampshire the day after the Boston debate. This may be the most encouraging day Edwards has had as a candidate. He's prominently quoted in all the national papers, and he's the subject of a rare laudatory column in The Boston Globe. Dean finally apologizes publicly, which seems to give Edwards the familiar satisfaction of a jury verdict.
Edwards and his wife sit eating sandwiches at a cozy little booth at the front of the bus. I slide in next to Elizabeth and ask the senator what made him suddenly go on the attack.
"It really wasn't very planned," he says. "I think it's important for people to see that when it matters, you will be as tough as you need to be. And that's why I did it."
Edwards arrives at a Concord vocational school to give a major policy speech on his ideas to shore up family savings. It is the kind of issue he says he believes should dominate the campaign, and yet, before he utters a word from his prepared text, he chooses to deliver a short statement rehashing his position on Dean's remark. 
It is a nod to reality. He knows this moment will be part of tonight's news lead, and even if it isn't the John Edwards story he'd most like the voters to see, at least he'll be news for another day. He takes questions from reporters after the speech. None of them concern predatory lending or tax credits or anything else in "Real Solutions for America." They're all about Dean.
Bathed in camera lights and surrounded by microphones, Edwards seems not to mind. Sixty seconds, he is finding, can last a lot longer than you might think.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Edwards preparing for the Democratic debate in Detroit last month. (Photograph by Marc Asnin; Redux Pictures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (53%) Presidential Election of 2004; Debating; Election Issues; Television

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (69%); REAL SOLUTIONS (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (93%); AL SHARPTON (50%) John (Sen) Edwards; Matt Bai

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



567 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends; 
What Partisans Embrace, Politicians Fear

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IN one corner are the social conservatives with their fists raised against gay marriage, girded for a new battle in the cultural wars. "Politicians don't want to face it, but they're going to have to," warned Sandy Rios, the president of Concerned Women for America, a Christian group. "It's going to be used by groups like ours as a litmus test."
 In the other corner are gays, lesbians and their supporters, fists aimed at those who would press for a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage. "They'd better think long and hard before they push this, because they're going to have a war on their hands," said Tony Kushner, the playwright, who won a Pulitzer Prize for "Angels in America." "A real movement for an amendment will electrify this community and bring about an entire new generation of dissent and civil disobedience." 
 In the middle of the ring are President Bush and the Democratic candidates for president, caught ever more uncomfortably between the edges of their parties. Last week's ruling by the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court allowing gay marriage in the state incited both sides of an angry debate that, for better or worse, may well become a pivotal part of the 2004 campaign. 
For many candidates, the ruling was bad news. Culture wars tend to drown out what the parties consider election priorities. Mr. Bush wants to run on the economy and national security, the Democrats against Mr. Bush's policies in Iraq. Cultural wars can be personal and bloody. In any case, nobody wants to run on gay marriage -- and not only because nobody knows how the issue will play in a campaign. 
For now, though half of the nation supports gay civil unions, some 60 percent of Americans oppose gay marriage. Most of the Democratic presidential candidates also oppose gay marriage, but they all support extending legal benefits to domestic partners of gays, and some explicitly support same-sex civil unions. Mr. Bush has not publicly said whether he supports same-sex unions, but in the 2000 presidential campaign he said that as governor of Texas he would not support them.
"It's front and center, and it's a terribly difficult issue for everybody on both sides," said Charles Francis, a Bush family friend and the co-chairman of the Republican Unity Coalition, an influential gay-straight political alliance.
The political danger for the president, Mr. Francis argued, was that he risked looking intolerant by siding too strongly with his conservative supporters. For now, Mr. Bush has taken a cautious course: he opposes gay marriage, like the vast majority of Republicans (75 percent, according to a poll conducted in October by the Pew Research Center) but he has not yet endorsed a constitutional amendment to ban it.
"We're hopeful that the campaign will steer clear of this amendment," Mr. Francis said. "It's an issue of tone. It's the issue of writing discrimination into the founding document. Also it's so distracting from the real priorities of the campaign, which are his leadership, the war in Iraq and the economy."
But Mr. Bush's most conservative supporters vow they will pressure him to back a constitutional amendment, and threaten consequences if he does not do as they wish. "If he doesn't take leadership, he's not going to have the support that he needs," Ms. Rios said. "I'm not saying he won't be re-elected, but I'm saying he's running a risk."
Former Vice President Dan Quayle, who launched his own culture war in 1992 when he criticized the television show "Murphy Brown" for exalting single motherhood, said that Republicans should campaign against gay marriage as "another attack on the institution of marriage" and tell voters that "marriage is the only way to bring children into this world." If he was running himself, Mr. Quayle said, "that's the way I would approach it."
The Democratic candidates may face bigger problems. While Mr. Bush's opposition to gay marriage keeps him in step with three-quarters of Republicans, the Democratic candidates opposed to gay marriage find themselves in step with only half of their voters. (The Pew poll found that 52 percent of Democrats opposed gay marriage.) In other words, the Democrats in favor of gay marriage -- 39 percent, according to Pew -- could see their party's presidential candidates as running scared on the issue.
Mr. Kushner is one of them. "The Democrats have done an appallingly bad job of running around in circles on this," he said. "I think you could get up and say, 'Listen: there's the marriage you have in church, and there's the marriage you have in City Hall with a license, and those laws should govern all people who get married. It has nothing to do with God.' "
BUT will Mr. Kushner's feelings of alienation result in Democrats not voting for Democrats? In other words, how much will the issue actually move votes? Political commentators say the issue is too new to voters to tell.
"It's not like gun control, when you can go back to 1972 and 1996 and say, 'See, this is who votes on this issue,' " said Grover G. Norquist, the president of Americans for Tax Reform, a conservative group. "When people talk about unemployment, they have a sense of how this affects votes. On a new issue, people can tell you their prejudices. They can extrapolate from other issues, but elected officials don't know.
"If Teddy Kennedy thought this was a huge winner issue for him, he'd be on TV saying we must talk about this from now to November. If Sam Brownback thought this was a huge issue, he'd be out holding press conferences saying the Democrats are toast. But neither team is jumping out."
In fact, though Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, reacted to the Massachusetts ruling with only a brief supportive statement issued by his office, Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, is expected to sponsor the legislation for a constitutional amendment in the Senate. Representative Marilyn Musgrave, Republican of Colorado, has already introduced a constitutional amendment in the House.
"This is something that people get," Ms. Musgrave said. "Much of what goes on on the Hill is esoteric to the average person out there, but they read one sentence and they understand what's going on with this."
But in a sign that even some conservatives are concerned about alienating moderates, Representative Tom Delay of Texas, the Republican majority leader, said that a constitutional amendment would be a last resort. "Amending the constitution is never our best recourse," said Stuart Roy, Mr. Delay's spokesman.
For now, the presidential candidates on each side seem to be waiting for the other guy to strike first. "If gay activists try to use the Massachusetts decision to nationalize government sanction of gay marriage," said Ed Gillespie, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, "there's no way it doesn't become an issue."
But as for whether there was a need for a constitutional amendment, Mr. Gillespie would not say yes. He carefully repeated the White House formulation, saying "we will support whatever policy is necessary."
As Mr. Norquist concluded, "Somebody with focus groups is going to make a lot of money figuring out where all this comes down."

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (91%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); COHABITATION (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MARRIAGE LAW (78%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); DRAMA LITERATURE (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (70%); WRITERS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (58%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (53%) Marriages; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Constitutional Amendments; Marriages

ORGANIZATION: CONCERNED WOMEN FOR AMERICA (58%); MASSACHUSETTS SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



568 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: The World: No Crisis, No Bill?; 
At 1,200 Pages, the Energy Plan Weighs Itself Down

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
THE struggle over the first national energy legislation in a decade culminated Friday when the Senate failed by three votes to cut off debate on the bill, leaving the measure -- and American energy policy -- in limbo. 
 Supporters of the bill warned of dire consequences should it not pass. "Failing to pass this bill will mean losing every incentive we need to maximize American energy production, to stabilize the energy market, to improve the power grid, and to create jobs," said Senator Peter W. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico. 
 But the sudden stall came over what appeared to be a relatively minor issue -- the costs of a provision protecting oil companies from lawsuits filed over water contaminated with the gasoline additive MTBE. This leads to a question: If the nation were truly confronting an energy crisis, would the first energy bill in years, sought by the White House, Republican leaders and some Democrats, entailing $31 billion in eventual costs,suffer this kind of defeat? 
The answer, many supporters and opponents of the legislation acknowledge, is no.
The 1,200-page bill was built on President Bush's 2001 National Energy Policy, which, responding in part to the power shortages that roiled California, spoke of "our nation's energy crisis," and called for large investments in energy of all kinds -- old-fashioned, renewable, nuclear, alternative.
But California's problems, like last summer's great blackout, were the result of flawed policies and ineffectual regulation, not a shortage of gigawatts or oil, according to the findings of government commissions and scientists. 
The real crises on the horizon are rising dependence on foreign oil, uncertain natural gas supplies and the climate impact of emissions from unabated burning of fossil fuels, say some energy analysts and environmentalists. 
To its critics, then, the stalled energy bill is merely a "porkfolio" of special-interest spending that, among many expensive provisions, doubles the amount of ethanol produced from corn, a process that uses far more energy than it provides, and authorizes a uranium enrichment plant in New Mexico that could cost $1 billion. 
In addition, there is so much money for boosting the use of coal, the fuel that scientists say contributes the most to global warming, that Jack Gerard, the president of the National Mining Association, issued a statement proclaiming, "The grants, loans, tax incentives and research dollars for coal in this bill will give an unprecedented demand stimulus to coal-based economies." 
Through the debate on the bill, Mr. Bush maintained some distance, lauding Congress's efforts to write the energy package, but not embracing the legislation itself. But late Friday, the president told reporters, "For the sake of our national security and economic security, the Senate's got to pass this bill."
But Steven M. Nadel, executive director of the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy, a private research group, disagrees with the administration's basic approach. The cheapest way to harvest energy, he says, is to use less of it. Indeed, he applauds the conservation measures included in the energy bill, like higher efficiency standards for refrigerators.
"If this was just a bill that contained the efficiency provisions, I'd probably say it's an excellent bill," Mr. Nadel said.
Most advocates of conservation agree, however, that the country will not move in that direction until Americans are faced with a costly energy crisis. 
Mr. Nadel noted that the first time Congress wrote bills combining energy conservation and alternatives to fossil fuels was 30 years ago, as Americans sat in blocks-long lines at gas stations.
IN large part through measures requiring higher gas-mileage standards for cars, such legislation led to strong economic growth and simultaneous sharp drops in energy use. From 1979 to 1986, while gross domestic product grew 20 percent, Americans cut total energy use 5 percent, said Amory B. Lovins, a founder of the Rocky Mountain Institute, a private energy analysis group, and an advocate of energy efficiency.
The institute has calculated that the country's biggest new source of energy since the 1970's has been energy saved through efficiency gains -- not gleaned through a new oil well or mine. 
Administration officials say that new production is essential. Without the new legislation, Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham said on Friday, "We can't do the sorts of things that we've been talking about to transform our energy dependency into a situation in which America has abundant natural reserves of energy here at home." 
Mr. Nadel believes conservation as a national policy will not arrive until it costs too much to avoid it. 
"If we truly have an energy squeeze like we did in the 1970's, then it's possible to get a decent energy policy," Mr. Nadel said. "Until then, no one wants to sacrifice their S.U.V.'s or tax breaks for the folks back home and most votes will tend to be on parochial interests rather than the big picture."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 30, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about federal energy legislation misstated a provision for uranium enrichment projects. The bill would have streamlined regulations for a plant proposed for New Mexico and shifted responsibility for its waste to the federal government, but did not authorize any federal money for it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The energy bill backs development of coal, which, critics complain, contributes to global warming. (Photo by Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (94%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (93%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); FUEL ADDITIVES (88%); CLIMATOLOGY (86%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (76%); BIOFUELS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ETHANOL (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ALCOHOLS (71%); SCIENCE FUNDING (70%); WATER POLLUTION (69%); GLOBAL WARMING (68%); TAX LAW (64%); CLIMATE CHANGE (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (61%); MINES & MINING (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%); SUITS & CLAIMS (55%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%) Energy and Power; Law and Legislation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (75%); PETE DOMENICI (58%) Andrew C Revkin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



569 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 2264 words

HEADLINE: Finding the Intersection of Supply and Demand; 
Already Facing Demands for Higher Fares, City Considers Adding 900 Taxis

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON

 BODY:
It is 5:22 p.m., and here at the intersection of Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street the rush hour dance is well under way: commuters are weaving toward the subway, lines have formed at the bus stops, hands are in the air for any available cab and a gridlock of cars and buses is on the streets, belching exhaust and raising tempers.
 It is a scene about as archetypal as the hot dog vendor in Central Park. But there is something else going on. This Midtown corner is a laboratory. And the experiment under way may reshape the taxicab industry, which has long exasperated and befuddled New Yorkers and tourists alike. 
 The Taxi and Limousine Commission is measuring air quality and traffic flow at this intersection and four others in Manhattan to decide how many more cabs should be set loose on city streets. Also under review by city regulators is how much the people who hail a cab each day in New York -- more than half a million of them -- should have to pay to indulge in this modest luxury. The implications are significant, cutting across the political fortunes of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, the livelihood of 40,000 cabdrivers, and, of course, the frustration level of New Yorkers as they engage in the fight during busy hours to find an available cab. 
"Downtown there are no cabs," Janet Block said as she waited one recent evening at the Pennsylvania Station taxi stand near the end of a line of nearly 80 people. "On the Upper East Side, there are no cabs. Midtown, there are no cabs. No matter where you are, there are no cabs."
If New York City issues 900 new cab medallions, as it is considering, it would be the biggest increase in new cabs since 1937, when the city imposed a taxi cap. And if fares go up, it could further increase the availability of cabs, by enticing more drivers to enter the business.
"Nine hundred more cars in the city of New York might not sound like a lot," said Jonathan Orcutt, associate director of the Tri-State Transportation Campaign, which studies transit in the metropolitan area. "But a cab in the city has a greater impact on traffic than any other vehicle, as its job is to stay in motion and their focus is in Manhattan, below 110th Street." The average cab in the city is driven about 64,000 miles a year.
The political equation for Mr. Bloomberg is a complicated one. His administration has prided itself on its campaigns to ease Midtown traffic, including a crackdown on double-parked trucks and a weekday prohibition against turns on certain crosstown streets. Allow too many new cabs, and some gains he has made could be lost. Mr. Bloomberg is already fighting an image that he is immune to the economic pressures on average New Yorkers, having supported increases in city sales, real estate and property taxes. But if the Taxi and Limousine Commission, whose chairman is appointed by the mayor, rejects or indefinitely delays action on the pending fare increase petitions, an alliance of cabdrivers has already made it clear that there will be a strike.
"If we do strike, it will be successful," said Bhairavi Desai, coordinator of the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, which startled city officials in May 1998 when it organized a one-day strike against new disciplinary rules, a demonstration that left city streets largely bereft of cabs.
Members of the Taxi and Limousine Commission say they want to make their decisions on medallion and fare increases soon, with a vote on higher fares perhaps as early as January. While the addition of most, if not all, of the 900 medallions is likely, Allan J. Fromberg, the deputy commissioner of the Taxi and Limousine Commission, said a fare increase was far from certain. "We need to study it very carefully," Mr. Fromberg said. "The onus is on the industry to document that it needs it."
Three of the nine board members said in interviews that they supported a raise and believed that one would be approved.
"There is going to be a fare increase. That is almost 99 percent sure," said Stanley E. Michaels, a former city councilman who was appointed to the taxi commission recently.
The impetus for the new medallion sale had more to do with a need to balance the city budget than a desire to ease the search for available cabs, city officials acknowledge. Since the city first imposed the cap on the number of cabs in 1937, the value of the painted metal shields mounted on the hoods of cabs has grown from $10 to about $225,000 today. That means that selling 900 new medallions could earn the city an estimated $190 million, a third of which the city is already counting on to help balance this year's budget. The city hopes to sell the first 300 medallions before the end of June.
Adding to yellow cab fleet has long been a tricky political issue. Mayors John V. Lindsay, Edward I. Koch and David N. Dinkins tried during their terms. Doing so now requires the approval of the State Legislature and the City Council. 
Mayors also face opposition by taxi owners, who for decades prevented the city from holding an auction, keeping the limit fixed at 11,787, based on an argument that more medallions could dilute their investment and mean more competition for their drivers. During the Koch years, the powerful Bronx Democratic leader Stanley M. Friedman represented the industry and managed to block Mr. Koch's repeated efforts to increase the medallions sold. 
Mr. Koch also faced another roadblock. A late-1980's study of traffic and pollution related to his plan to allow 1,800 more cabs found that the city could, at most, add only 400, raising the total to 12,187; any more would have violated clean air rules.
"It was incredibly startling," Mr. Koch said in a recent interview, still frustrated that he could not get a single additional cab onto the streets during his three terms. "People did have difficulty getting cabs. I never understood it."
It was not until the mid-1990's, during the tenure of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, that the city first adjusted the medallion cap, adding the 400 cabs that the traffic study had cleared. 
This year Mr. Bloomberg was able to win approval for the 900 new medallions in Albany and from the City Council partly because the industry, which has been pressing for a fare increase, decided not to oppose the sale. The only remaining hurdles are the Taxi and Limousine Commission and the environmental study, which should be complete within a month.
The study, conducted by Urbitran Associates, a New York City engineering firm, is examining how issuing 300, 600 or 900 additional medallions would affect carbon monoxide at five intersections: Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street; Broadway, Columbus Avenue and 65th Street; Third Avenue and 57th Street; Broadway and 34th Street; and Eighth Avenue and 42nd Street. All are notoriously congested spots where cabs are often hard to get, even though cabs make up about half the traffic.
State air monitoring data from an East 34th Street testing station shows that New York City's air has greatly improved since the mid-1980's and that carbon monoxide is consistently far below federal limits. The Bloomberg administration plan would require 9 percent of any new cabs to rely on compressed natural gas or to be hybrid electric-gas vehicles, reducing their emissions impact. 
The crucial question the traffic study will answer is whether the new cabs would significantly increase carbon monoxide. A significant increase is defined as consuming half the available cushion between the federal limit and the current air quality.
At the same intersections, the consulting firm is counting overall movement of cars, how often they turn, how long they sit in traffic and how long it takes to move across nearby eight-block sections of the city.
What the study will not answer is the ever-urgent question of just how long, on a rainy day, or at rush hour, a traveler will have to wait for a cab at those high-demand locations. Cab availability, it turns out, has to do with a lot more than simply how many medallions the city allows.
The economy, for one, is a significant force. Most city residents may not realize it, but the recession has made it easier to get a cab in New York now than in 1999. 
Cab use goes down in New York City almost in direct correlation to declines in employment at restaurants and bars, declines the city has experienced recently, said Bruce Schaller, a former Taxi and Limousine Commission policy director who runs a cab research and consulting firm. Meanwhile, city data shows that drivers, struggling to make a living, have been putting in more hours. A combined result is that city cabs cruised for 303 million miles in 2002 in search of fares, up from 288 million in 1999, suggesting that it was about 5 percent easier to get a cab last year. This trend may already be reversing as the economy begins to revive.
A fare increase typically means that more people opt to take public transit or to walk, at least initially, making it easier for others to hail cabs. More cabs might also mean fewer sedans would be illegally picking up people trying to hail cabs. That variable also complicates any study of the environmental impact of the medallion increase.
During a recent rush hour at the Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street intersection, would-be taxi riders did not have their hands up for more than a few minutes before a sedan pulled up and offered a ride.
"I'd rather pay a little extra and get going," one man said as he gave up on getting a cab and stepped into a limousine for a $10 ride to Penn Station.
Raising the fare could also affect the availability of cabs -- as well as the environmental impact -- because more drivers could be drawn into the business, allowing fleet owners to put more cabs on the road for double shifts.
As it stands, a cab ride in New York City is a relative bargain. New York City's average fare of $6.85 (assuming a 2.8-mile trip and about five minutes spent sitting in traffic) is the lowest among the nation's 14 cities with sizable cab fleets, according to a survey by Mr. Schaller. A similar trip would cost $9.19 in Los Angeles and $7.77 in Chicago.
Full-time cabdrivers, on average, take in about $1,375 for working six 12-hour shifts a week, according to Mr. Schaller's analysis of city taxi meter data. After the typical costs for leasing the cab and gasoline are deducted, it works out to about $720 in take-home pay before taxes, according to Mr. Schaller. Ms. Desai, of the Taxi Workers Alliance, said she believed that the average take-home wage, before taxes, was more like $565 a week.
Each driver, of course, has his own story. Mohammed Ahmed, who lives with his wife and two young children in Woodside, Queens, said he took in about $1,200 in fares and tips during his six-day week. Subtract $565 in lease payments for his cab and $150 in gasoline, and that leaves about $500.
"Policemen, firefighters, teachers -- their salaries have gone up," said Mr. Ahmed, 38, who said he had more than $10,000 in credit card debt. "It is hard to survive with what I make."
But giving Mr. Ahmed and other cabdrivers an increase is not an easy call for Mr. Bloomberg. In February 2002, he all but endorsed a taxi fare increase, saying during a news conference that "somehow or other, if you don't make it economically attractive for people to drive taxis, the public's not going to have taxis." He also said, "You probably will see some kind of a rate increase."
Since then, however, Mr. Bloomberg has been more circumspect.
"The T.L.C. will follow its charter-mandated process as it considers applications for a fare increase," said Jordan Barowitz, a spokesman for Mr. Bloomberg. "A medallion sale will make it easier for New Yorkers to find a cab and encourage people not to drive their own cars. 2.2 million vehicles travel New York's streets each day; the addition of 900 cabs isn't even a drop in the bucket."
Mr. Koch said that Mr. Bloomberg should put aside any concerns about his political fate and back the fare increase.
"What did you pay seven years ago for a bottle of milk and a pound of steak?" he said, referring to the last time there was a fare increase. "The mayor should do the right thing and people will support it. And the right thing is to issue the additional medallions and allow a fare increase to go through."
The most intense part of the debate might end up being which version of the fare increase should be approved, as the fleet owners and the alliance of drivers have strikingly different requests pending before the city. The Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade, which represents fleet owners, wants a 23 percent fare increase, which would produce an average fare of $8.45 and increase the flat rate for a ride from John F. Kennedy International Airport into Manhattan to $49 from $35.
The taxi workers alliance, meanwhile, is pushing for a nearly 50 percent increase, raising the average fare for a 2.8-mile trip to $10.14, not including tip.
The dispute extends beyond the basic fare. Fleet owners want to increase the cap on how much they can charge drivers to lease cabs, while the drivers want a reduction in that cap. 
In Midtown, where the battle for cabs is waged every evening, the prospects of a fare increase were greeted with something of a collective shrug. New Yorkers have already seen increases in the subway and bus fare this year, and taxi fare increases often follow close behind.
"I am willing to pay more for the convenience of knowing that there will be a cab when I need one," Amy Innerfield, who lives on the Upper East Side, said while waiting at a Midtown curb for a cab last week. "At least I can get where I want to go."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hailing a cab in Manhattan could be easier next year. The city hopes to add 300 taxis before the end of June. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 34); (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 31) Chart: "N.Y.C. TAXI"There are 12,187 licensed taxis in New York City.The average taxi travels 64,000 miles a year.Taxis carried an average of 650,000 passengers a day last year.The average fare costs $6.85 before the tip.In the 2003 fiscal year, passengers filed 11,913 complaints about taxis. (pg. 31) Chart: "Examining the Need for More Taxicabs and a Fare Increase"Here are some factors that will go into the decision whether to add 900 cabs and raise fares. The city stands to gain $190 million by selling 900 medallions, which would be the largest increase in taxis since 1937. Graph tracks total riders per year from 1992-2002.Ridership has increased over the past decade. Graph tracks total number of miles driven by available cabs per year from 1992-2002.Taxi availability has not fallen over the same period. Graph tracks average fare in New York City, in current dollars and adjusted for inflation from 1965-2003.Taxi fares have not been lower, in real terms, since 1965. Fare for a 2.8-mile trip with 4 minutes 45 seconds of waiting, which is theaverage trip in New York*Relative to other major cities, New York's fares remain lowSan Francisco: $10.85Boston: 10.08Las Vegas: 9.30Los Angeles: 9.19Honolulu: 8.92Houston: 8.40Atlanta: 8.08Detroit: 8.05Miami: 8.03Chicago: 7.77Philadelphia: 7.49Dallas: 7.35New Orleans: 7.09New York: 6.85 *Excluding surcharges; Washington, D.C., is excluded from the list because its zone system is not comparable. (Source by Schaller Consulting)(pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (77%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); AIR QUALITY (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (77%); AIR QUALITY MONITORING (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%) Taxicabs and Taxicab Drivers; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Air Pollution

ORGANIZATION: Taxi and Limousine Commission (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (71%) Eric Lipton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



570 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: A FINAL PUSH IN CONGRESS: THE SAVINGS PLAN; 
Tax-Free Accounts Drew Yeas From the Wary

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 22 

 BODY:
For some conservative Republicans opposed to expanding a government entitlement program, the sweetener that allowed them to swallow the medicine and vote for the Medicare bill on Saturday morning was the inclusion of a new tax-free health savings account.
 These accounts have long been a goal of conservative lawmakers and academics who want to add cost-cutting competition to the health insurance marketplace and offer a way for workers to save money formedical expenses in their retirement. 
 Given the extraordinary political muscle applied to fence-sitters in the all-night session leading to the final vote, it is impossible to know whether this was the decisive factor that allowed the bill to pass, but it was certainly important.
One Republican who said it was the crucial element for him, Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, predicted before the vote that as many as 40 Republicans who would otherwise oppose the bill would end up voting for it. 
"This will spark a consumer revolution in health care," said Mr. Ryan, who was an economic policy analyst for conservative research institutes and Congressional staffs before he was elected to the House in 1998.
"It will get people shopping with their own dollars for health care," Mr. Ryan said. "Now, you don't care what your treatment costs because insurance is paying for it."
Opponents of the savings account measure, mostly liberal Democrats, see it as a tax shelter for young, healthy and wealthy people and a potential trap for unwary workers.
Representative Pete Stark of California, the top Democrat on the health subcommittee of the House Ways and Means Committee, said that if the savings accounts became law, lower-paid workers who participated would deny themselves needed preventative care, and the people most likely to get sick would have to pay more for their insurance as healthier workers opted out.
"Health care is not like other goods," Mr. Stark said. "You're not a consumer. How can you shop when you're scared and in pain."
Here is how the accounts would work: Consumers or their employers would buy relatively inexpensive health insurance policies with high deductibles -- at least $1,000 a year for individuals and $2,000 for families -- so that patients would be fully covered for costly injuries or illnesses but have to pay routine medical expenses out of pocket.
With the money saved in lower premiums, they would open health savings accounts into which they or their employers could put up to $5,000 a year ($10,000 for a couple). The contributions would be tax deductible, the money would accumulate year after year tax free, and it could be withdrawn to pay not only for the kinds of medical expenses normally covered by insurance, like doctor visits and laboratory tests, but also for expenses often not covered, like cosmetic surgery, dental care and eyeglasses.
Republicans have dreamed of creating these accounts since they won control of Congress in 1994, but the most they have been able to get is an experiment, called medical savings accounts, enacted in 1996. 
The law specified that it was an experimental program, not a permanent one, and available only to the self-employed and those working in companies with 50 or fewer employees. 
In addition, many workers under the current law can put up to $5,000 a year tax free into devices called flexible spending accounts to cover medical expenses. But workers cannot invest this money, and any money not spent each year is forfeited.
The medical savings account program has not been particularly popular. According to the Internal Revenue Service, only about 70,000 taxpayers had the accounts in 2001, out of 130 million tax returns filed.
In interviews, executives from the two main providers of medical savings accounts -- the Golden Rule Insurance Company, with executive headquarters in Indianapolis, and Fortis Health of Milwaukee -- said the program was handicapped because the accounts were limited to the self-employed and those in small businesses and because most insurance companies were unwilling to get involved in a temporary program that might soon be ended.
The new health savings accounts would be a permanent part of the law and available to all workers. The executives said they expected many more people to take advantage of the accounts.
But the Congressional tax staff estimated that the loss of tax revenue to the government would be only $500 million a year over the next five years, indicating that the staff did not expect many taxpayers to use the accounts.
Fortis has not been particularly active in politics. But Golden Rule and its executives have been major contributors to the Republican Party and its candidates for years.
Scott Krienke, a vice president of Fortis, gave this example of how the program would work. A 38-year-old couple with two children in a large city in Ohio could buy an insurance plan with a $5,000 annual family deductible for $250 a month, or $3,000 a year. A conventional insurance plan with a $500 deductible would cost the family $600 a month, or $7,200 a year. 
If the family bought the $3,000 plan, the $4,200 saved in lower premiums could be invested in a savings account, spent to pay routine health bills and deducted from income taxes, and the chances are that the family would have some left over as a nest egg against bills in succeeding years, Mr. Krienke said.
Critics of the program say that employers who pay for their workers' insurance would be unlikely to put all the premiums saved into the workers' savings accounts and that many workers would take a chance and end up with thousands of dollars of medical bills they could not afford.
They also object to the idea that unlike 401(k) plans and other tax-advantaged savings accounts, the money in health accounts would be both deductible when deposited and untaxed when withdrawn. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (89%); DENTAL INSURANCE (89%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (77%); INSURANCE (76%); INSURANCE POLICIES (76%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (50%) Medicine and Health; Law and Legislation; Medicare; Aged; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); PETE STARK (58%) David E Rosenbaum

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



571 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: A FINAL PUSH IN CONGRESS: THE WHITE HOUSE; 
For White House, 2 Bills Offer Route to Political High Ground

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 22 

 BODY:
As President Bush flew over the North Atlantic on Friday, heading home from three days as the houseguest of Queen Elizabeth, he switched his attention from the glamour of royal Britain to the grit of American politics.
 From Air Force One, with his politically critical Medicare bill in precarious straits on Capitol Hill, Mr. Bush placed calls to pressure wavering House Republicans. Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's chief political aide, had already made calls from Buckingham Palace, House Republicans said. 
 So when the presidential helicopter landed at 6:20 p.m. on the White House South Lawn, it was no surprise that Mr. Bush strode over to the waiting television crews, quickly dispensed with pleasantries about his trip -- "Her Majesty the Queen was a great host" -- and made a pitch for the Medicare and energy bills, his top two legislative priorities, which were at that moment embroiled in frantic negotiations on Capitol Hill. 
The normally early-to-bed president made calls to the Hill into the small hours of Saturday morning, White House officials said, and kept up the pressure on Congress to pass the Medicare bill in his weekly radio address. "I urge all members of Congress to remember what is at stake," Mr. Bush said.
What was at stake for the White House was command of the high ground in the 2004 re-election campaign.
The weekend capped an intense, yearlong effort by Mr. Bush's aides to get the Medicare and energy bills passed before the heavy politicking began. (After the House passed the Medicare bill near dawn on Saturday, the Medicare legislation in the Senate moved toward a final vote, probably on Monday. On Friday, Senate opponents blocked the energy bill -- "a minority," Mr. Bush noted on the South Lawn -- but Republicans said it still had a chance.)
The goal of the White House, administration officials and Republicans said, was to get the two bills off the table and to leave national security and the economy as the chief focus of the president's 2004 campaign. The bills would at the same time help Mr. Bush's appeal to two crucial constituencies, the elderly and the Republican big-business class. Republicans added that the sweeping overhaul of Medicare would allow Mr. Bush to make inroads with voters on an issue that the Democrats had long considered their own.
"This is the equivalent of what welfare reform did for Clinton," said Bill McInturff, a Republican pollster. "Having a Republican president deliver on the largest expansion of Medicare in two generations is an enormous advantage going into the 2004 election. Imagine the ad that says, 'Millions of seniors are getting help through the drug card.' "
Democrats countered that they would attack the president for a bill they said was stuffed with giveaways to drug and insurance companies and that in the end would cut benefits to the old people it was designed to help.
"It would be a dagger in the heart of Medicare as we know it," Representative John Lewis, Democrat of Georgia, said in typical comments on Friday. "This bill is a backdoor attempt by the Republican Party to privatize Medicare."
But Republicans close to the White House scoffed at those arguments, saying that the Democratic opposition to giving private insurers a big new role in the program would be too complex for the simple sound bites of a political campaign.
"I don't think that's easily understood by seniors," said one Republican close to the president. "You either have prescription drugs or you don't."
The White House began focusing on the two bills shortly after the November 2002 midterm elections. Stephen Friedman, a former co-chairman of the Goldman Sachs investment bank who became the president's chief economic adviser last December, was put in charge of the White House push on Medicare, while Vice President Dick Cheney, with his longtime ties to the nation's oil and gas industry, was in charge of the energy bill.
The Medicare team included Mr. Rove, Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy G. Thompson and Thomas A. Scully, the administrator of the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. Meetings were held at the White House from December to February every two weeks or so. They died down during the Iraq war from March into the late spring, but picked up in the summer and then increased this fall. Participants said the president presided over some 20 Medicare meetings over the course of the year.
"He was basically rolling the dice that he was going to get it done," said Mr. Scully. Participants said Mr. Bush started out intent on "doing the right thing," but as the negotiations intensified late this year he emphasized his desire for a bill to run on in 2004.
People in the meetings said Mr. Bush always arrived precisely on time, demanded cogent updates from the staff, then crisply dispensed new orders before leaving -- again, precisely on time. Mr. Bush, his advisers said, had a good knowledge of the substance of the bill, and was always well aware of the political twists and turns on Capitol Hill.
"He clearly understood all the angles," Mr. Scully said. "He could definitely pick every issue in this bill and mix it up with the most intense policy wonk."
Mr. Thompson, Mr. Scully and a team of White House legislative liaisons made frequent trips to Capitol Hill, trips that intensified over the last month. In recent weeks, Mr. Thompson spent close to 75 percent of his time pushing the Medicare bill, his spokesman said.
"He'd go up to the Hill in the morning, spend hours meeting with members, come back, have lunch, take care of the other business of running the department, then go back up and spend a couple of more hours on the Hill," said the spokesman, Bill Pierce.
But both Democrats and Republicans on the Hill said the White House made the real push on Medicare only in the final moments, and kept the president and big hitters like Mr. Rove out of the process until the very end. The heavy lifting, Congressional Republicans said, was left to the Republican leadership -- Bill Frist, the Senate majority leader; House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert; and Representative Tom DeLay, the House majority leader.
"The strategy on Medicare was a Congressional strategy," said one House Republican aide, who did not want to be identified because he was implicitly criticizing the president's team. "It really wasn't a White House strategy. It was Hastert, Frist and DeLay who got this done."
Republicans close to the president maintained that the White House's distance was deliberate in order to keep Mr. Bush inoculated from conservative Republicans agitated over the huge expense of what became a $395 billion bill. For this reason, Republicans said, Mr. Rove never wanted more than a White House statement of principle on the legislation, and left the shaping of the actual bill to Capitol Hill.
"All along Karl knew that any kind of enormous expansion of the entitlement programs was going to be an ideological-philosophical problem with the conservatives," said one Republican with close ties to the White House who did not want to be identified because it would hamper his relationship with a president who prefers that his advisers are not named in the newspapers. "They kept guiding the process but they also had enough distance from it when the president needed it."
Mr. Cheney, meanwhile, made trips to the Hill to push for the energy bill, and at one critical point ended an impasse on ethanol-based gasoline between Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, and Representative Bill Thomas, Republican of California.
"Cheney got the two sides talking," said an official in the vice president's office.
Now, should the energy bill die after a bipartisan effort to defeat it, Mr. Bush's advisers say that he will simply blame the Democrats in 2004.
The Republican close to the White House said, "Bush can basically say that they don't care about blackouts and brownouts."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush and his wife, Laura, on the South Lawn of the White House after returning from England on Friday evening. Mr. Bush told reporters he was eager to see both Medicare and energy legislation passed. (Photo by Reuters)(pg. 26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BRITISH ROYALTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (61%); INSURANCE (60%) Medicine and Health; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Law and Legislation; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals) ; Medicare; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Aged; Medicine and Health; Medicine and Health

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); KARL ROVE (58%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



572 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: A REGION INFLAMED: MOURNING; 
Bomb Attacks Fail to Weaken Public Resolve Of U.S. Allies

BYLINE:  By FRANK BRUNI

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Nov. 22 

 BODY:
Angry young people scattered throughout a crowd of mourners here on Saturday, carrying placards that amplified their belief that Turkey was paying with its blood for American sins.
 Some were rude; others merely said Turkey's relations with the United States should be abolished. 
 But as more than 1,000 Turks gathered to express their anger and sorrow over the deadly bombings in this city, the more commonly expressed feeling was Turkey's determination not to be cowed by the bombers. 
Although an apparent aim of the bombings here during the past week was to drive a broad and deep wedge between the United States and Turkey, it is not at all clear that they have succeeded in doing so. Nor is there any indication that Britain and Italy, two other American allies that recently suffered losses in connection with terrorism and the American-led war in Iraq, are re-examining their commitments to the United States. 
The Turkish, British and Italian governments have all more or less pledged continued allegiance, and they have not cast the damage inflicted on their countries as a direct, negotiable cost of helping the United States.
When Jack Straw, the British foreign minister, was asked by a British radio station if the bombing of the British Consulate in Istanbul was payback for Britain's role in the war, he called that notion "utter and palpable nonsense."
That is perhaps to be expected: a matter of political self-preservation. But less predictably, those governments do not yet seem to be facing new opposition to their partnerships with the United States, although the opposition that existed has been emboldened.
"I don't see any hostility or sort of alienation of Turkey from the Western world," said Ozdem Sanberk, the director of the Turkish Economic and Social Studies Foundation. "The message is going in a totally different way."
The losses suffered by Turkey, Britain and Italy could, however, force those governments and the United States to make adjustments as President Bush prosecutes his declared campaign against terrorism. 
Late this week, opposition politicians in Italy began to insist more urgently and pointedly on an enhanced role for the United Nations in Iraq and the swifter installment of an Iraqi government. "The conditions for our presence there cannot remain the same," said Lapo Pistelli, a center-left member of the Italian Parliament, referring to Italian armed forces.
After the fall of the government of Saddam Hussein, Italy authorized the dispatch of 3,000 police officers, soldiers and civilians to Iraq, and 19 of them were killed in a suicide bombing there a week and a half ago.
It was the most deadly single attack on Italian military forces since World War II, and it prompted a heart-wrenching, tear-filled week of memorial services. But it did not prompt an outcry that the troops be brought home, even though a majority of Italians opposed the American-led invasion of Iraq.
"The 19 dead have maybe strengthened this resolve," said Roberto d'Alimonte, a political scientist in Florence. "I think that they have been for us, with all due deference, and I ask for apologies, what Sept. 11 was for Americans."
He was suggesting that, in response to an attack, both outrage at the bombers and national pride had kicked in, and that those reactions prevented any other, more critical ones.
Something similar could be sensed in the statements of government officials in Turkey. Speaking at a funeral for one of the victims in Istanbul on Saturday, the interior minister, Abdulkadir Aksu, said, "We will maintain our fight till the end."
But there are political and cultural currents in Turkey that could complicate that vow. In Islamic-oriented newspapers with readers who are part of the governing party's political base, there have been assertions that the bombings were part of a convoluted American plot to torture Turkey, a secular but predominantly Muslim country.
At the gathering in Istanbul, one of many around the country, a jumble of conflicting opinions and theories bumped against one another.
There were people who saw the hand of the United States in the bombings here and people who said merely that the United States had upset the world, making it less safe.
"We want occupation in Iraq to end," said Kaya Guvenc, addressing the crowd. "We want freedom for Palestine."
But there was no coherent, shared call to break ties with the United States, and most people's viewpoints seemed to predate the recent bombings, which left people more convinced of what they already believed.
That was also true in Italy and in Britain, where opponents of the government's policies saw what happened in Istanbul as a validation of their apprehensions and used it to put more pressure on Prime Minister Tony Blair.
"The shock this week is that Bush and Blair not only still believe that war is the way to deal with terrorists but that even when faced by the escalation of Istanbul they think victory is possible," wrote Jonathan Steele in a column published Saturday in The Guardian, a British daily. 
One emerging outcome of the losses suffered by Turkey, Britain and Italy seemed to be an intensified push by those allies -- and others -- for a greater say over American efforts in Iraq and policy in the Middle East.
Those losses underscored not just the vulnerability of America's allies but also their stake in the success of the American campaign, along with all it has yet to accomplish.
"We need to start an international discussion on a deep and new strategy," said Mr. Pistelli, the Italian lawmaker. "We have to discuss very frankly how to behave in the future."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A woman with a banner showing Ataturk, the founder of modern Turkey, at a demonstration in Istanbul. (Photo by Lynsey Addario/Corbis, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (92%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (84%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); WAR ON TERROR (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); IRAQ WAR (71%); POLITICS (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%) Bombs and Explosives; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Foreign Service 

PERSON: JACK STRAW (70%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (52%) Frank Bruni; Jack (Sec) Straw

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); TURKEY (96%); ITALY (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Turkey; Italy; Great Britain; Istanbul (Turkey); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



573 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: PAGE TWO: THE READING FILE; 
Dear Mr. President: Are You Getting Out Enough?

 BODY:
BEFORE President Bush's visit to Britain last week, the liberal newspaper The Guardian asked 60 people to write him an open letter. Excerpts follow (the letters can be read in their entirety at www.guardian.co.uk/antiwar/story/0,12809,1087630,00.html).

Dear Mr. President,
 Today you arrive in my country for the first state visit by an American president for many decades, and I bid you welcome. 
 You will find yourself assailed on every hand by some pretty pretentious characters collectively known as the British left. They traditionally believe they have a monopoly on morality and that your recent actions preclude you from the club. You opposed and destroyed the world's most blood-encrusted dictator. This is quite unforgivable. 
I beg you to take no notice. . . .

Frederick Forsyth, novelist

Dear President Bush,
I'm sure you'll be having a nice little tea party with your fellow war criminal, Tony Blair. Please wash the cucumber sandwiches down with a glass of blood, with my compliments.

Harold Pinter, playwright

Dear Mr. Bush,
Two years ago, shortly after the 9/11 atrocity I was arrested in the early hours of the morning at the home I shared with my wife in Colnbrook. . . . 
The front page headlines around the world reported the U.S. and their representatives as saying that I was the "lead instructor" of four ofthe pilots responsible for the hijackings and that I would in time be charged for "conspiracy to murder." . . . 
I spent five months of hell in Belmarsh prison where threats were made on my life. My dream of a career as a pilot is over. . . . My wife and I are unemployed. Many people will now always think of me as a terrorist. . . . The "war on terror" has moved on but my life and family are still in pieces.

Lotfi Raissi, the pilot falsely accused of aiding the Sept. 11 terrorists.

Dear George,
. . . To tell you the truth, I am glad that someone is doing the cleaning up, and thank you for getting rid of that scary guy with the hideous mustache that we had for president. But I have to say that the advertisements you were dropping from your B-52's before the bombs fell promised a much more efficient and speedy service. We are a bit disappointed. So would you please, pretty please, with sugar on top, get your act together and stop telling people you have Iraq all figured out when you are giving us the trial-and-error approach? . . . 

Regards, Salam Pax, the Baghdad Blogger

Dear George,
I would like to welcome you to our country. Both as a person and a president, you are a nice guy, and it is a good idea for both yourself and the people of England that you have taken the time to come over to visit our country. I am a self-employed person, and have been getting quite a lot of free advertising from your being in the public light for many years now. I would like to thank you for that. . . .
Although my family and friends vary a little in their opinion, I think you are the right man for the job. 

George Bush, builder

Dear George,
I would just like to say how much I hate you. You have done nothing positive in your whole time as president. You are the reason for the poverty in the Middle East. You have no idea what you are doing. . . . 
I don't want to grow up in a country which is so influenced by you and your policies. 

Mickey, 12

Dear Mr. President,
Are you getting out enough? The world is divided into two groups of people and here I draw no political or social distinctions. I am, of course, referring to those that run and those that do not. . . . 
Maintaining your daily running diet will keep your head clear and your mind focused, and will remind you constantly that, as a runner, you have the advantage over others, knowing that the road is often undulating and the gradient and surface uncertain. You will also know, as any runner does, that the session has to be completed and, unlike the bluffers who make up the ranks of the political intelligentsia, you do something on a daily basis that is objectively measured. Good luck and, as they would say in the north of England, "Get the miles in."

Sebastian Coe, former athlete and Conservative M.P.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The whole town is reading his mail. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); TERRORISM (87%); LIBERAL MEDIA (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); WAR CRIMES (72%); HIJACKING (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); ARRESTS (67%); NEWS BRIEFS (65%); MURDER (53%) United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: Guardian (British Newspaper)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); TONY BLAIR (58%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (51%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); IRAQ (79%); ENGLAND (73%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



574 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2290 words

HEADLINE: A REGION INFLAMED: RECONSTRUCTION; 
Iraqi Town Relishes Freedom, But Resentment Runs Beneath

BYLINE:  By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: KIFL, Iraq, Nov. 20 

 BODY:
The first bombs began falling unexpectedly on this village at 3:30 one morning in March. Ali Kazim Hamza was shepherding his family into what he hoped would be a safe room when one bomb landed outside his front door.
 The blast crumbled the front of the house and hurled him across the entryway. He cradled his son, Muhammad, in his beefy arms. Shrapnel or perhaps flying shards of brick had sliced through the boy's forehead, killing him. He was 2. 
 Eight months ago, this small, dusty village on the Euphrates became an unexpected obstacle to the American assault on Baghdad. Massed a few miles west, the Army's Third Infantry Division ordered its forces across the river and into the village to cut off Iraqi reinforcements headed toward Najaf. 
What followed was some of the most intense fighting that the division's First Brigade encountered, and it left deep scars.
Now, Kifl is one measure of America's halting progress since Saddam Hussein's overthrow. Violence continued Saturday, as a missile reportedly hit a civilian plane in Baghdad and bombers killed 14 people at two police stations near the capital. Page 18. 
The people of Kifl -- all Shiites repressed under Mr. Hussein's rule -- relish their new freedom but fear the uncertainty that freedom has brought. They have rebuilt some of what was destroyed. 
But they also angrily complain that their expectations -- of aid and compensation, of democracy and security -- remain unmet. And some of what was lost can never be restored.
"We are breathing freedom," Mr. Hamza said. 
For him, though, more than for most, it came at a cost -- a son's short life. "Yes," he said, "it was too expensive a price." 
Compared with the violence and chaos of Baghdad and the triangle of seething cities to the north and west, Kifl is an oasis that fulfills much of the Bush administration's vision for a new Iraq. Today there are no foreign forces here, no barriers of concrete and concertina wire. The covered market pulses beneath ancient brick vaults, its stalls full of trinkets and cheap goods. Its main street -- eight months ago a shattered mess, strewn with charred wreckage and a gruesome trail of death -- is now a cacophonic bustle of crowds, cars and carts.
Beneath the outward peace, however, runs an undercurrent of need and grievance and simmering resentment that has not boiled over but easily could.
There was no electricity for three days this week. Trash and sewage foul the streets. The bridge over the Euphrates, which Iraqi forces blew up on March 25 after the First Brigade's troops crossed it, remains buckled and blocked to traffic, severing the city from Najaf to the south and Karbala to the north.
There have been 21 cases of cholera and smaller outbreaks of other infectious diseases, including typhoid and meningitis. The hospital has no medicine at all.

Prices Skyrocketing
On the main street an agitated crowd quickly gathered as Sheik Aziz Izzi al-Abud explained that Kifl had welcomed the American overthrow of Mr. Hussein, only to grow wary and increasingly impatient. 
The men shouted and shoved as they voiced their complaints. It is not safe to drive at night. There are no new jobs. Pensions are delayed. The prices of staples -- gas, cooking oil, grains, sheep -- have skyrocketed. The mayor's friends have skimmed off what aid has come, they complained, while the rest of the village's residents have gone wanting.
"We have had a lot of unjust treatment," Sheik Izzi said. "For 13 years we were under embargo. The Americans promised everything. All the good would come with the tanks, and it didn't."
What becomes clear on the streets of Kifl, as in other parts of Iraq, is that a cold calculation is being made, as people tally the dinars in their pockets. Freedom and democracy, it would seem, are often beside the point. Some people have more than they did under Mr. Hussein, and others have less. 
To hear Fadil Abdul Amir, a butcher who can no longer afford to buy sheep to slaughter, more and more people have less. 
"They're going to become terrorists!" he shouted over the din of the crowd, referring to those disenfranchised in the new Iraq. "They're going to join bin Laden!"
Later, inside his cobwebbed shop, he sounded less strident. For Mr. Amir, 44 and the father of 11 children, the American promise of freedom has brought only destitution and uncertainty.
"We were hungry for change, but nothing changed," he said. "Only Saddam is gone."
Kifl, nestled among groves of date palms beside the wide, smooth waters of the Euphrates, is an ancient place. At its heart is the tomb of the biblical prophet Ezekiel, who preached to the captive Jews in Babylon and is revered by both Jews and Muslims.
Attacking Kifl was never part of the Third Infantry's war plan, which envisioned an uninterrupted march to Baghdad. But with the division's advance stalled and its overstretched supply lines under attack in the south, Kifl became a battlefield.
For the soldiers of the First Brigade, encountering the enemy close up for the first time, Kifl seemed apocalyptic.
Waves of lightly armed but fanatical fighters hurled themselves toward the brigade's armored vehicles in the middle of a sandstorm that turned the sky the color of blood. Sgt. Mark N. Redmond struggled to comprehend attacks he called suicidal. 
One tank commander called Kifl "a little piece of hell." It seemed that way for Kifl's residents, too.
The fighting, they said, started without warning. In fact, the mayor, Ahmed Kabit al-Abassy, explained, the Americans tried to warn them by dropping leaflets, but the canister holding them failed to open.
Before dawn on the first day, American shells damaged several homes behind Ezekiel's tomb, including Mr. Hamza's. Across the village a shell landed in the courtyard of Hassun Ali, blinding the right eye of his 14-year-old daughter, Ragad.
When day broke and the fighting intensified at the bridgehead, residents fled to the countryside. Many sought sanctuary in the shrine of Iman Zaid, a few miles away. Mr. Hamza, his son dead and his own body torn, was taken to a hospital in Hilla.

A Four-Day Battle
There, he said, he saw Qusay Hussein, the Iraqi leader's son, who is believed to have commanded Iraq's defense during the war. Qusay's presence so near Kifl might explain the intensity of the battle, which flared for four days before the Third Infantry Division resumed its attack northward.
The division's official record said Iraqi soldiers and even civilians were forced at gunpoint to fight in Kifl, but no one here confirmed that.
Dozens of residents served in the military, but they did so in other parts of Iraq, people like Fazil Hasan. He served with an air-defense battery in Yusufiya but cast off his uniform two days after the bombing started -- not just because he felt no loyalty to Mr. Hussein but also because "the Americans started dropping cluster bombs."
Mr. Abassy, the mayor, said the Iraqi forces included two brigades of fedayeen soldiers and another from the Baath Party's militia -- perhaps 500 fighters altogether, all from outside Kifl.
Eleven people from Kifl died, along with 60 other civilians from other villages, according to the mayor's official count. The bodies of 240 Iraqi fighters were buried in mass graves after the battle subsided -- fewer than the American estimates of enemy killed but about the same magnitude.
More than a dozen homes were destroyed. Few buildings escaped damage, especially along the main street. But Kifl has recovered more quickly than many places in Iraq, in large part because it has not experienced the continuing resistance that has brought new destruction elsewhere and hampered efforts to rebuild.
There was also no frenzied looting in Kifl -- mostly, the mayor noted, "because we have nothing of value."
With one incalculable exception: someone pried three of four stone tablets, inscribed in Hebrew, from the walls of Ezekiel's tomb, as well as a menorah mosaic, historic remnants of a Jewish community that lived here for centuries until 1948. The tomb's aged caretaker, Mahady al-Dharib, said part of the tomb's soul was now missing.
It took two months for Jassim Jiwad, 62, to rebuild his brick factory. On the third day of the battle, with Iraqi fighters using the factory's buildings and stacks of bricks as cover, an unseen B-52 dropped a string of 500-pound bombs. The blasts punched gaping holes in the kiln, cracked the smokestack, destroyed several outbuildings and killed 20 donkeys used to haul bricks.
There are still unexploded bombs in the stacks of bricks, and prices for fueland parts have risen, forcing up the prices he must charge. He had to spend $3,000 to rebuild, but the factory and its 100 employees are at work again. 
"It's war," he said with a shrug, when asked about his losses. "There must be some casualties."
Adam Abud al-Budairy also rebuilt his barbershop. On the shop's back wall hung a poster of lower Manhattan, seen from New Jersey with the towers of the World Trade Center intact.
He replaced the shattered glass storefront, but someone stole the poster, and he has been unable to find another. He bought it not as some political statement, he said, but simply because "we all love New York."
Like a barbershop anywhere, it is a forum for gossip and debate. Muhammad Habib, a clerk in the newly re-formed Justice Ministry, said the Americans should capture Mr. Hussein and then leave Iraq. One of the barbers, Raid al-Shimmari, disagreed, saying a withdrawal would plunge Iraq into chaos.
Kifl has many problems, but something profound has changed.
"Before we talked only about girls and sex," Mr. Shimmari said, speaking of Iraq's old fears and new freedoms. "Now we talk about Saddam -- and sex."
Only days after Mr. Hussein's fall, tribal chiefs met and chose a mayor, Mr. Abassy. The legitimacy of that decision remains a matter of debate here. This much is clear: it was far from a vote of the people, many of whom remained in hiding.
Mr. Abassy, a lean man of 41, is a leader of Kifl's predominant tribe, the Bani Hassan. Mr. Hussein's government executed his father in 1987, a brother and an uncle four years before that. As a student, he fought in the Shiite uprising that followed the Persian Gulf war in 1991, and then after it was brutally crushed, he fled to Saudi Arabia. 
He returned to Kifl and his studies, eventually becoming a lawyer. That he survived the crackdown of 1991 has aroused suspicions among his critics that he had reached an accommodation with the government.
By April 18, Kifl had a mayor and a council of five other leaders. Mr. Abassy proudly claimed that it was the first functioning administrative body in Iraq after major combat operations ended.
L. Paul Bremer III, the leader of the American occupation, visited in May and pledged $5 million for reconstruction.
The money paid for repairs at Mr. Abassy's office, as well as the courthouse, the sewage plant, three schools and Kifl's small athletic stadium. This last project especially angers residents who said the money would have been better spent on rebuilding their broken homes.
People stream through Mr. Abassy's office. They complain about shortages and ask for jobs. As mayor, though, he has little power and less money. As a new politician in a new Iraq, he already sounds weary.
"People's satisfaction," he said, "is an unattainable object."
On Tuesday, the loudspeakers atop Kifl's mosque announced that an election was being held to create an administrative council with 20 seats.
At the elementary school 10 candidates vied for six of the seats. They were chosen by the mayor's office based on criteria that included no ties to the Baath Party.
For people here, it was their first real taste of democracy. Mr. Hussein held what he called elections, but as one voter, Kasim Mahidi, put it, "You couldn't say no."
As a measure of Iraq's embrace of democracy, the vote was a disappointment.
Of some 4,000 eligible voters, 117 cast ballots. An official from the mayor's office took the ballot of one man and filled it out himself after sending the man away. Another man began angrily shouting that the candidates were all Hussein stooges.
Sheik Izzi boycotted the election, calling it a farce. Mr. Amir, the butcher, did vote, but left with a pointed warning. "If these guys are thieves just like the others," he said angrily, "then it will be a mess."

Will Democracy Work?
Later the mayor, oddly, agreed. In his home is a picture from 1921, showing his grandfather and other tribal chiefs sitting with a British general. The problem then, like now, Mr. Abassy said, was that each of Iraq's major groupings -- Sunnis, Shiites, Kurds -- all demanded a share of power.
Like many here, he said Iraqis were not ready for democracy. Instead, they need an authoritarian ruler, perhaps a king. "I think if the Iraqis have the power to rule themselves, it will be a disaster," he said.
Then echoing a realization that has dawned on many from Iraq to Washington and fueled the debate over the Bush administration's planning for occupied Iraq, he said: "The politics are harder than the liberation."
Still, in a school auditorium, in a place battered by repression and then by war, here were the first stirrings of power passing through the hands of the people. After the poll closed, the votes were tallied as the candidates and others squeezed into children's chairs. However flawed the process, it was a tentative first step to democracy.
Amir Jabir, 42, who won the most votes, became a member of an elected body, though one with no budget and ill-defined powers in a village with profound needs and an unclear future.
"It was like a nightmare under the previous regime," he said. "There is some hope for democracy now. God willing, we will succeed. Before, we didn't have a chance."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kifl, Iraq, is recovering from a major battle this spring. But the covered market, which was undamaged, pulses, its stalls full of cheap goods. (Photo by Michael Kamber/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Kifl, Iraq, is recovering from the damage of a major battle that took place as American forces advanced on Baghdad in the spring. Still, the town's brick factory, left, is one of the few thriving businesses. Sheik Aziz Izzi al-Abud, above, said residents welcomed the overthrow of Saddam Hussein but have grown impatient as prices skyrocket, street crime rises and politicians skim off aid, leaving the rest of the town without. (Photographs by Michael Kamber/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. 16) Map of Iraq highlighting Kifl: During an intense battle in March, Kifl became a little piece of hell. (pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); ARMIES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (75%); TRENDS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); POLICE FORCES (66%); TROPICAL DISEASES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Freedom and Human Rights; Economic Conditions and Trends; Looting

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%) Steven Lee Myers; Saddam (Pres) Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (95%) Iraq; Kifl (Iraq) ; Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2003 



575 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: GEORGIAN LEADER AGREES TO RESIGN, ENDING STANDOFF 

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: TBILISI, Georgia, Nov. 23 

 BODY:
President Eduard A. Shevardnadze of Georgia, once acclaimed for his role in helping to end the cold war, resigned Sunday in the face of huge public protests over the corruption and economic collapse that have marked his nearly 12-year rule.
 "I'm going home now," Mr. Shevardnadze told reporters on live television after a final meeting with opposition leaders, and the streets of the capital erupted in celebration. 
 Fireworks exploded overhead and the air was filled with cheers, whistling and the mad honking of car horns. People hugged, kissed and shouted into their cellphones. They waved flags and held small children over their heads. 
"I see that this could not have ended bloodlessly, and I would have had to exercise my power," said Mr. Shevardnadze, 75, referring to his futile declaration of a state of emergency after he was forced by protesters to flee the Parliament building in this former Soviet republic on Saturday.
"I have never betrayed my country, and so it is better that the president resigns," said Mr. Shevardnadze, who was born to a rural family in the village of Mamati, on Georgia's Black Sea coast.
He gave a small, tight smile and a wave to reporters as he turned away, ending a career that reached its high point when, as the Soviet foreign minister, he watched the Berlin Wall come down.
Mr. Shevardnadze was a major figure on the world stage. As foreign minister under Mikhail S. Gorbachev, he helped improve relations with the West and bring the superpower confrontation to an end.
Both Russia and the United States have significant interests in Georgia, which is strategically located between the south of Russia and the Black Sea, and is on the route of an important oil pipeline now under construction.
Mikhail Saakashvili, the main opposition leader, said new parliamentary and presidential elections would be held and that there should be no retribution against Mr. Shevardnadze.
The parliamentary speaker, Nino Burdzhanadze, who is also an opposition leader, stepped in as acting president, as mandated by the Constitution. She said elections would be held within a statutory period of 45 days.
Like the other opposition leaders, she spoke with respect for Mr. Shevardnadze and said history might be a gentler judge than the ferocious crowds in the streets.
The third major opposition figure, Zhurab Zhvania, said, "Shevardnadze said firmly and categorically that he is not going to leave Tbilisi, and is prepared to offer his assistance to future Georgian authorities."
Mr. Saakashvili told reporters it would be a point of honor for the country to provide Mr. Shevardnadze and his family with "guarantees of absolute security."
"The important thing was that the military switched sides," Mr. Saakashvili told CNN, describing the turning point after a three-week standoff following parliamentary elections that have been widely condemned as fraudulent.
In the final days, some military units had joined the round-the-clock crowds that were massed in front of the Parliament building, and their commanders pledged their support to the opposition.
Mr. Shevardnadze was also put under pressure during the weekend in telephone calls -- one from President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and one, jointly, from Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Kofi Annan, the United Nations secretary general.
Foreign Minister Igor S. Ivanov of Russia arrived here on Saturday and played a central role as an informal intermediary. On Sunday evening, he brokered what turned out to be a decisive meeting between Mr. Shevardnadze and the three main opposition figures.
Mr. Zhvania said that Mr. Shevardnadze had rejected the urging of some of his advisers to order a military assault on the protesters.
He said that Mr. Ivanov had proposed a compromise that would have allowed Mr. Shevardnadze to stay in office, but that the opposition leaders had persuaded the president that the huge, emotional crowds would not accept such an outcome.
"He took his decision in front of our eyes and I was really touched, very much, by how responsibly he was acting," Mr. Zhvania said. "It wasn't the gesture of an angry person but it was the gesture of a president who realized that he had failed, failed very badly."
Commenting on Mr. Shevardnadze's resignation, Mr. Gorbachev told the Interfax news agency: "He is not a coward and probably understood that the moment had come to make this step so that Georgia would not break up. I think he was right."
One year after Georgia became an independent nation in 1991, Mr. Shevardnadze stepped in to help end a period of turmoil and brought a measure of stability.
His tenure was a difficult one as he faced separatist rebellions in four provinces, lost control of the breakaway region of Abkhazia and survived three assassination attempts.
At the same time, he became increasingly unpopular as the Black Sea nation of nearlyfive million people sank deep into poverty, corruption and a collapse in government services. Georgia's problems became a worry for the United States, which is counting on the completion of a pipeline from the Caspian Sea through Georgia to Turkey as an alternate source of oil.
Partly because of the esteem in which Mr. Shevardnadze is held in Washington, his country became one of the leading recipients of American assistance, with $1 billion flowing in over 10 years. The United States has also helped train and equip Georgian Army, border and security personnel to strengthen their ability to combat terrorism. 
The parliamentary elections, on Nov. 2, were seen as a first round in advance of a presidential election in 2005. After two terms in office, Mr. Shevardnadze would have been required to step down then.
But fury over the conduct of the election, which international observers condemned as fraudulent and blatantly manipulated, quickly escalated into demands for Mr. Shevardnadze's immediate resignation.
Mr. Saakashvili led the charge, staking out an uncompromising position on Mr. Shevardnadze's resignation. When Mr. Shevardnadze tried to convene the new Parliament on Saturday, it was Mr. Saakashvili who led protesters into the chamber, forcing the president to flee. 
He appropriated for his movement the phrase of Czechoslovakia's peaceful overthrow of its Communist government, repeatedly calling it a "velvet revolution." On Sunday, he said he wanted to make his party's flag the national flag of Georgia.
On the other hand, when Ms. Burdzhanadze was asked whether she now planned to run for president, she said she had not decided.
"You know, it's not a very good idea to be a president of Georgia," she said. "Georgia is a country that has very serious problems. Ethnic problems. The problems with Chechnya nearby. Economic difficulties. A lot of very serious problems. So a person who will run for president should be very brave."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Celebrations erupted yesterday in Tbilisi after the resignation of President Eduard A. Shevardnadze. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COLD WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); ASSASSINATION (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); ETHICS (77%); RIOTS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); CHILDREN (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (63%); ARMED FORCES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%) SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS; ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; CONSTITUTIONS; ASSASSINATIONS AND ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; SHEVARDNADZE, EDUARD A (PRES); SAAKASHVILI, MIKHAIL; BURDZHANADZE, NINO; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (90%) GEORGIA (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%) GEORGIA (GEORGIAN REPUBLIC); TBILISI (GEORGIA); RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2003 



576 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: E-Commerce Report; 
Sensing economic opportunities, many developing nations are laying the groundwork for online commerce.

BYLINE:  By Bob Tedeschi 

 BODY:
E-COMMERCE is starting to find a place in some of the world's emerging economies. Governments and businesses in a growing number of developing nations have begun building the infrastructure needed for online commerce, according to a report released Thursday by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, or Unctad.
 "Governments are more and more aware that this can be a tremendous boon to their economy," said Angel Gonzalez-Sanz, an Unctad economist who spoke by phone from Geneva. "They're starting to recognize that policy choices matter; the attitude of the government, the business community. When you tackle issues like infrastructure and lack of awareness, results come." 
 Mr. Gonzalez-Sanz said that Thailand, for example, is starting to see results from a government strategy that began in 1996 and was updated in 2002. Under that plan, the nation has moved aggressively to improve computer and Internet literacy by, among many other things, selling $250 personal computers and $500 notebook computers to its citizens and wiring thousands of schools for the Internet in the last two years.
 The government has also set up two national Internet switching points and created a plan to offer Internet services throughout the country.
 The early results for online commerce are modest but promising. From 2000 to 2001, the latest period for which data is available, the share of Thailand's Web sites selling goods or services online doubled, to 12 percent. The proportion of Thailand's Internet users who live outside Bangkok, the capital, has steadily improved, reaching 50 percent last year.
 Mr. Gonzalez-Sanz said that in Southeast Asia, among other regions, "companies have been feeling pressure from the market to get on the Internet." That is particularly true, he said, with companies that export goods to countries where a significant amount of business is conducted through the Internet, like the United States.
 But, Mr. Gonzalez-Sanz said, not all developing countries have followed that path. "Some countries have still had trouble identifying the benefits" of online commerce development, he said. "In places where most of the economy is exporting agricultural commodities, or where you're less integrated in the global economy as a whole, you don't have that pressure." 
 Indeed, in countries like El Salvador, the development and use of online commerce has been haphazard. 
 Earlier this year, Everest S.A., a family-run business in San Salvador, sold a 69-kilogram lot (152 pounds) of coffee beans in an Internet auction from one of its five farms for a record price of $14.06 a pound. 
 According to Aida Batlle, who helps manage the farms, the family had no grand e-commerce plan. Rather, she had heard about a coffee competition, Cup of Excellence, held in El Salvador by a coffee industry trade group based in the United States. Ms. Batlle entered the competition, which included 335 of the country's roughly 23,000 farms, and in early May received first prize for beans from the family's Kilimanjaro farm.
 Cup of Excellence then arranged an online auction featuring lots from the competition's finalists. Ms. Batlle sat in a hotel room in San Salvador with 31 other farmers, watching a big screen TV that displayed the auction's Web site, where price increases were updated every 90 seconds. 
 That was exciting, Ms. Batlle said, but an equally important part of the auction was that it put her company in direct contact with buyers. In the past, she said, local mills would buy the farms' beans and sell them to distributors. "We've now taken the middleman out, which is huge," she said.
 Ms. Batlle said she had maintained a relationship with the Norwegian coffee distributor that bought her beans as well as a Japanese distributor that bid $3.20 a pound for coffee from another of the family's farms in a July auction. That change, she said, will help the farm lift average prices above the 30 cents a pound it received last year.
 The entry into the global market will also benefit the company's workers, who in past years have earned 75 cents for every 25 pounds of ripe coffee cherries picked. (Workers pick, on average, 250 pounds a day.) Because of better coffee prices, Everest now pays its workers $1.03 for 25 pounds. And, Ms. Batlle said, the nation's other farms could ultimately benefit, as well. "This has given the country's coffee industry great exposure," she said.
 For businesses that export services from developing nations, the Internet can be equally critical. The Unctad report, for instance, noted the rise of "business process outsourcing," in which companies in countries with high labor costs contract information technology and other service jobs to foreign workers abroad. Some American companies have begun to use Indian workers to handle online monitoring of their information systems. 
 But successful online enterprises do not necessarily require a telecommunications system as developed as India's, said Mr. Gonzalez-Sanz. Cambodia, which as a nation has modest Internet access, has a small but growing outsourcing company, Digital Divide Data, which has gained clients around the world in the last three years.
 The company, a nonprofit organization started by Americans, employs about 115 people to digitize data from maps or documents, and then send it back to the country of origin. According to Nhev SithSophary, the general manager of Digital Divide Data's main office in Phnom Penh, the company hires people who might otherwise not find work, including disabled people, workers from rural areas and women who were in the sex trade.
 The workers earn $1,200 a year, which is four times the average Cambodian's income, and receive free education while on the job. "That way, they can move on to the next job, for higher pay," Mr. Nhev said. "It's really helpful." Digital Divide Data will generate about $200,000 in revenue this year.
 In all, according to the report, global e-commerce revenue this year will reach $1.4 trillion to $3.9 trillion, with more than 95 percent of the transactions in industrialized countries like the United States, Britain and Japan. By contrast, Africa and Latin America combined will account for less than 1 percent of global online sales.
 That online commerce will take years to emerge in many countries is understandable, Mr. Gonzalez-Sanz said. "Some of these countries have been preoccupied with very serious issues" like AIDS, he said. In those situations, he added, "e-commerce probably won't be your first preoccupation."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Aida Batlle, who helps to manage a family-run coffee farm near Santa Ana, El Salvador, sold beans through an Internet auction. (Photo by Luis Roberto Rivera for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); COFFEE (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); COFFEE & TEA (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (74%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (74%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); AUCTIONS (69%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (68%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (68%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (67%); RETAILERS (67%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 

COMPANY: EVEREST SA (62%); TRADE & DEVELOPMENT BANK OF MONGOLIA (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE ON TRADE & DEVELOPMENT (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%) UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE ON TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) EL SALVADOR (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (91%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%) THAILAND; EL SALVADOR

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2003 



577 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: Opening Pandora's Flip Phone 

BYLINE:  By MATTRICHTEL 

 BODY:
The mobile telephone business is one of the most competitive sectors in the American economy. It is an arena of brutal marketing wars, aggressive price competition and heated technological one-upmanship.
 The battles will become more intense as federal rules go into effect today allowing customers to keep their cellphone numbers when they move from one wireless carrier to another. With this new freedom, tens of millions of consumers are expected to switch companies, but what is less certain is the answer to a multibillion dollar question: Will the chaos created by the new rules prove fatal to weaker companies and lead to industry consolidation? 
 The answer is far from a simple "yes" or "no." Eventual consolidation of the six major mobile phone carriers is all but inevitable, and the rules will probably hasten it by making it easier to change providers. Even so, allowing consumers to transfer cellphone numbers will not by itself determine which companies will survive the shakeout. 
 "I've heard this for years now, 'the wireless industry's going to roll up,"' said Michael K. Powell, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, in an interview. "And in many ways it hasn't." What is certain about number portability, he said, is that "it's definitely going to increase competitive pressure." 
 In the less muted words of Patrick Comack, an analyst for Guzman & Company: "This will be a bloody mess. It is throwing gasoline on a fire."
 At stake for cellphone carriers is no less than the chance to become the dominant force in 21st-century telecommunications. As mobile communications become ubiquitous, they are assuming the status of a utility, becoming a necessity in the lives of most Americans, and a monthly expense.
 Cingular Wireless, T-Mobile, AT&T Wireless, Verizon Wireless, Nextel and Sprint PCS collectively have invested billions of dollars to become the next great utility. Still, many industry analysts and executives say six companies cannot be profitable and that at least one and possibly three of the competitors will sooner or later be subsumed by the others. 
 "This industry can't sustain six companies," said Len Lauer, president of Sprint PCS. "Unfortunately, nothing yet has triggered consolidation." Some analysts say that a key to long-term survival is having a wealthy telecommunications parent -- like Verizon or SBC -- to help finance the costly and intensifying fight for market share. 
 Many analysts agree that, in the short term, companies that distinguish themselves on quality or price will win. Many say Verizon Wireless has the edge on reputation for high-quality service, while Cingular and T-Mobile are the most competitive on price. But, as network quality becomes more uniform, among the providers, price could become more important, with other factors like having the financial backing to afford an acquisition.
 The overall growth of the market had allowed even smaller companies to grow and put off consolidation. But with about 70 percent of American adults owning mobile phones, according to Gartner Inc., most subscriber growth for any company means stealing a rival's customers. Companies typically lose 25 percent to 30 percent of their customers each year, industry executives said.
 Number portability removes a major obstacle to competition, particularly for business customers who need to keep their telephone numbers and are the most coveted customers because they have high monthly bills. 
 Greg Carr, the chief executive and president of Teldata Control, an East Rutherford, N.J., business that manages telecommunications services for companies like Citigroup, said his clients were negotiating with mobile phone companies for better deals. He said clients often had contracts with three or four companies but wanted to consolidate services to one or two. The most important criterion for his clients is low price. "We're going to people and saying, 'we'll give you all our business, but we want a bigger discount,"' he said.
 On the consumer side, many surveys say tens of millions of Americans plan to switch providers. But how many will do so is unknown. Telephia Inc., which compiles data for the wireless industry, found in surveys that 21 percent of people said they would like to switch if they could take a number with them. But Steve Chan, executive vice president of Telephia, said that consumers might not follow through when they realize that they would have to buy a new phone if they change providers. He said about two-thirds of users are under contract with their current service, which means they would pay a penalty to switch.
 Another complicating factor is whether and how much the overall wireless market will grow as Americans abandon traditional wireline phones for wireless service.
 Randall Stephenson, chief financial officer for SBC, the telephone company in San Antonio that owns 60 percent of Cingular Wireless, for example, contends that wireless communications, "is where the voice business is headed." While he said that most older Americans would not abandon traditional phones, a generation of young Americans is already getting by without wireline service. The migration to all-mobile service, he said, " is effectively happening now."
 The new federal rules allow consumers to transfer their wireline numbers to wireless phones. Mr. Powell, of the F.C.C., said he expected that change to lead to "an overall growth in the wireless consumers," with the mobile phone industry seeing continued growth from wireline substitution. On Friday, the United States Telecom Association, a phone industry group, filed a motion in federal court in the District of Columbia to delay that particular rule. The court ordered the F.C.C. to respond by Wednesday. 
 While overall growth may help mobile providers stave off consolidation, the financial forces at play will be hard to overcome in the long run. The industry is already spending huge sums for marketing and advertising as well as infrastructure improvements to keep customers and to win those of rivals. Yet Mr. Stephenson of SBC said that not one wireless company was earning back its capital investment. Wireless companies spend $300 to $350 to attract and sign up each customer, he said. 
 With consumers empowered to move phone numbers, from carrier to carrier, all providers will be pressured to add subscribers to make up for higher customer turnover, or churn. 
 "That means increased financial stress," he said, which will be hardest on the weaker competitors. In that sense, the new rules allowing transfer of phone numbers are likely to be most burdensome for companies that are not managing costs well.
 Still, Mr. Stephenson says he does not think that greater customer churn will force any of the big wireless companies to give up the fight. "It's a hard business to get out of," he said, because all the players see themselves as acquirers, not the soon-to-be acquired. Acquisition power may have little to do with a company's ability to deal with the new rules or its short-term success.
 For instance, Cingular Wireless -- with two phone company parents, SBC and Bell South, which holds a 40 percent stake in the company -- might have greater financial resources to last through the market turmoil than Nextel, an independent company. Similarly, Verizon Wireless, which is 51 percent owned by Verizon, the country's largest phone company, may be better able to weather increased competition than AT&T Wireless, a stand-alone public company. 
 Despite many factors, Mr. Comack, the Guzman analyst, said the rules that go into effect today would make the eventual losers more apparent. Noting that profit margins are sure to be squeezed next year, he added, "we've got to have a shakeout."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Jockeying for Position"The largest cellphone companies have a lot to gain, and a lot to lose, as the new cellphone number portability rules take effect. VerizonSUBSCRIBERS (MILLIONS)*: 36.0MARKET SHARE: 24.6%CHURN RATE+: 1.9 %SELLING POINT: It works everywhere.OPTIMISTIC VIEW: Widely voted "most likely to succeed," because of strong reputation and quality of network.PESSIMISTIC VIEW: Its prices run higher, so if cell service becomes a commodity where every carrier is perceived as equal, Verizon may suffer. Cingular WirelessSUBSCRIBERS (MILLIONS)*: 23.4MARKET SHARE: 16.0CHURN RATE+: 2.8SELLING POINT: Lets consumers roll over unused minutes to the next month.OPTIMISTIC VIEW: Its parents, Bell South and SBC, have deep pockets. And it has finally settled on an identity: price warrior against T-Mobile.PESSIMISTIC VIEW: Can it afford a long price war? If it doesn't get costs in line, Cingular could lose a war of attrition. AT&T WirelessSUBSCRIBERS (MILLIONS)*: 21.9MARKET SHARE: 14.9CHURN RATE+: 2.7SELLING POINT: Consumers can test phones and service for 30 days.OPTIMISTIC VIEW: With a strong brand name, it has sought, with some success, to share the "quality" niche with Verizon.PESSIMISTIC VIEW: A poorer runner-up to Verizon. If it does not win on quality or on price, AT&T Wireless could be trapped in no-man's land. SprintSUBSCRIBERS (MILLIONS)*: 15.5MARKET SHARE: 10.6CHURN RATE+: 2.7SELLING POINT: Night hours start at 7 p.m. rather than 9 p.m.OPTIMISTIC VIEW: It is overcoming its reputation for having the worst customer service. Its data network is considered "the least bad" by some analysts.PESSIMISTIC VIEW: If it does not find a way to stand out from the crowd soon, it could be destined to be acquired by a stronger wireless carrier. NextelSUBSCRIBERS (MILLIONS)*: 12.3MARKET SHARE: 8.4CHURN RATE+: 1.4SELLING POINT: Best known Push-to-Talk (walkie-talkie) service.OPTIMISTIC VIEW: Ninety percent of clients are business users, the most lucrative customer base, giving it a powerful niche to depend on.PESSIMISTIC VIEW: Not owned by a major telephone company, Nextel has less ability to bundle services and turn to a corporate parent for support. T-MobileSUBSCRIBERS (MILLIONS)*: 12.1MARKET SHARE: 8.3CHURN RATE+: 3.3SELLING POINT: Free weekend minutes now can be used on Fridays.OPTIMISTIC VIEW: It has made a name for itself among younger users as the lowest cost option. Sexy marketing by Catherine Zeta-Jones gets customers in the door.PESSIMISTIC VIEW: It loses customers quickly, too, because of what analysts say is a lower quality network. If others can match its prices, TMobile will lose its greatest advantage. *As of third quarter 2003+ Percentage of subscribers dropping each companys service each month. (Source by The Yankee Group)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (95%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (93%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (66%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (86%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (85%); TELECOM AS (66%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%) VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC; T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG; NEXTEL COMMUNICATIONS INC; CINGULAR WIRELESS; AT&T WIRELESS; SPRINT CORP 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (86%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (86%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (53%)

PERSON: RICHTEL, MATT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2003 



578 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
Supercomputing has the momentum, judging by dueling conventions.

BYLINE:  By John Markoff 

DATELINE: PHOENIX 

 BODY:
TWO seemingly unrelated indicators the fact that hotels in downtown Phoenix were sold out at the same time that there were no taxi lines in Las Vegas -- point to subtle but sweeping changes under way in the computer industry.
 Here in Phoenix, 8,000 people crowded into SC2003, the 15-year-old supercomputing industry trade show and conference that has traditionally been the exclusive province of some of the brainiest techies in the computer industry. Meanwhile, Comdex -- long the computer industry's premier annual event -- was a shadow of its former self at its 24-year-old home in Las Vegas. 
 The contrast tells a lot about how winners and losers emerge as computing technology reacts to technical advances as well as changing market and political realities. 
 The supercomputer industry has begun to show renewed signs of life after almost a decade of decline -- bolstered in part by the government's efforts to develop systems to help prevent terrorism as well as concerns over global economic competitiveness.
 One crucial factor behind the new interest in supercomputers -- the ultrafast machines capable of handling vast quantities of information to tackle such tasks as modeling the effects of global warming or sorting through millions of digital photographs to find a particular person -- was the completion of the Japanese NEC Earth Simulator, now the world's fastest supercomputer.
 "The Japanese Earth Simulator has re-energized the U.S. government and the high performance computing field," said Jim McGraw, deputy director of the Institute for Scientific Computing Research at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California and chairman of SC2003.
 The exhibition also highlighted the extent to which the industry has seized on grid computing, which uses complex software to harness dozens, hundreds, even thousands of computers in a single, far more powerful system.
 "Grids have happened," said David Turek, vice president of I.B.M.'s Deep Computing initiative. "It's fundamentally a proposition about access to computing power and it's cascading across the industry."
 The supercomputing renaissance could be seen here in a 100,000-square-foot exhibit floor, which was two-thirds the size of the once vast but now shrinking Comdex exhibition in Las Vegas. 
 The decline of Comdex, which this year concentrated far more on heavy-duty applications for corporations, illustrates how the center of gravity in the computing world is shifting from its focus on the development of faster, morepowerful personal computers. Instead, the action now seems to be, on one hand, in creating super-sophisticated machines capable of taking on new tasks and, on the other, building computing intelligence into common consumer electronics devices like wireless phones, home entertainment equipment and even kitchen appliances.
 Comdex, which for years had been the Las Vegas showplace for the booming personal computer industry, reached dizzying heights in the late 1990's. Just three years ago, several thousand companies supported the event, which filled more than 1.2 million square feet of space, drew more than 200,000 attendees and sprawled across exhibition halls, producing hourlong cab lines. 
 This year, after the company that runs the show emerged from bankruptcy protection, attendance estimates ranged from 45,000 to 50,000 -- several analysts said the actual number was lower -- to view exhibits from about 550 companies taking up about 150,000 square feet.
 There are several reasons for the decline of Comdex that go beyond the downturn in high-technology spending. The principal cause is almost certainly the way personal computers are now sold. The rise of the Internet as a dominant sales channel, which has contributed to wiping out most independent computer dealers, has made the show increasingly irrelevant for its original purpose.
 By contrast, the SC2003 exhibition this year sold out its largest venue since the show was created and turned away 50 companies because the hall had run out of space.
 For the first time, Microsoft was an exhibitor. Apple Computer, which in the past had only a tiny presence, was also a new force on the strength of a surprisingly powerful homebuilt supercomputer recently assembled by researchers and students at Virginia Tech from 1,100 new Apple G5 desktop computers.
 The achievement was viewed here both as a vindication for I.B.M., whose microprocessor is at the heart of the new Apple computer, and as an indication that the action in computer design is shifting from the PC world and back to the makers of powerful machines.
 Indeed, one of the liveliest discussions recently has been about why Microsoft chose I.B.M.'s processor technology over Intel's for the next generation of its Xbox video game machines. Neither Microsoft nor I.B.M. has explained the decision in detail, but several technology experts here speculated that one reason might be because I.B.M. has quietly begun pushing its hardware in a new direction known in the industry as reconfigurable logic.
 Such semiconductor devices can be reorganized internally to run different kinds of applications quickly. The chip technology could be used to run both Microsoft's existing Xbox software and newer applications at high speed.
 An I.B.M. executive refused to comment on the possibility. Several computer makers here, however, were exhibiting designs that for the first time take advantage of reconfigurable logic to adapt hardware to different computing problems.
 Back in Las Vegas, even though Comdex continued to attract industry titans like Bill Gates, Microsoft's chairman, and Scott McNealy, Sun Microsystem's chief executive, the trade show had the desultory feel of an event that has lost its way, several attendees said.
 "Shows have to step up to the changes in the technology," said Rob Enderle, a computer industry consultant in San Jose, Calif. "When the world changes you either adapt or you become extinct."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Comdex personal computing convention in Las Vegas stills draws industry titans but has been drawing fewer convention-goers. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPERCOMPUTERS (92%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); EXHIBITIONS (87%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); PARALLEL COMPUTING (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); DISTRIBUTED COMPUTING (77%); COMPUTATIONAL RESEARCH (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (60%); TERRORISM (52%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMDEX (COMPUTER TRADE SHOW); TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS; SUPERCOMPUTERS; ELECTRONICS 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SCIENTIFIC INFORMATION CO (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (90%) NEVADA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) PHOENIX (ARIZ); LAS VEGAS (NEV)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2003 



579 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: MOST WANTED: DRILLING DOWN/WIRELESS CITIES; 
E Pluribus Unwired

BYLINE:  By TIM RACE 

 BODY:
As wireless communications companies wait to see how customers will respond this week to new rules allowing subscribers to keep their phone numbers regardless of the carrier they use, the industry can find satisfaction in at least one fact: The cellphone is a part of everyday life for the majority of people in the nation's largest metropolitan areas.
 According to data from the wireless research firm Telephia, 58 percent of people in the nation's 48 largest markets were wireless subscribers as of October. 
That compared with 52 percent of the population in those markets a year earlier. 
 Notably, wireless penetration figures are highest in smaller cities, led by Greenville, S.C. Some larger cities, like St. Louis and Atlanta, also have high percentages of cellphone users. Among the very largest cities, however, wireless subscriptions as a percentage of population tends to be lower. In the metropolitan New York City area, with its ethnically and economically diverse population, wireless percentage is only 53 percent, ranking it 44th among the 48 largest cities, according to Ray DeRenzo, a Telephia vice president. Once you get into a market that's more heterogeneous, Mr. DeRenzo said, you get a larger variety of factors working against cellular usage. TIM RACE

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wireless in St. Louis ChartMetropolitan areas with largest share of wireless phone users 1. Greenville, S.C.WIRELESS PENETRATION RATE, OCT. 2003: 77%PERCENTAGE CHANGE FROM OCT. 2002: +16% St. LouisWIRELESS PENETRATION RATE, OCT. 2003: 77PERCENTAGE CHANGE FROM OCT. 2002: +14 3. Orlando, Fla.WIRELESS PENETRATION RATE, OCT. 2003: 72PERCENTAGE CHANGE FROM OCT. 2002: +13 4. AtlantaWIRELESS PENETRATION RATE, OCT. 2003: 71PERCENTAGE CHANGE FROM OCT. 2002: +11 5. Raleigh, N.C.WIRELESS PENETRATION RATE, OCT. 2003: 70PERCENTAGE CHANGE FROM OCT. 2002: +9 (Source by Telephia)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); CITIES (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES 

PERSON: RACE, TIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (86%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (59%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (86%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) GREENVILLE (SC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2003 



580 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

President of Georgia Relinquishes His Post
President Eduard A. Shevardnadze resigned in the former Soviet republic of Georgia, driven out by protests over corruption and economic collapse. The parliamentary speaker, Nino Burdzhanadze, who is also an opposition leader, stepped in as acting president. A1

28 Die in Moscow Dorm Fire
A fire ripped through a Moscow dormitory housing foreign students, killing at least 28 people and injuring 78 others, the government said. A8

Nationalists Ahead in Croatia
Preliminary results showed Croatia's former governing nationalists had won a clear lead in parliamentary elections. The victory for the Croatian Democratic Union follows an overhaul of its image and a purge of extremists. A8

5 More Soldiers Die in Iraq
Three American soldiers were killed in fighting in Iraq, including two whose throats were cut. The third, a soldier from the Fourth Infantry Division, was killed by a roadside bomb in the city of Baquba. Two others died in accidents. A10

Hezbollah, the Iranian-backed Shiite group, has established a significant presence in Iraq, but it is not taking part in the attacks on American forces. Iran is believed to be restraining the group. A10

Turkey's European Relations
Many people in Turkey have conflicting feelings about the country's relationship with the West, even as the country recovers from the violence of Islamic extremism. A3

Taliban Maintaining Presence
The American forces that toppled the Taliban regime two years ago are risking death and injury from guerrillas who have shown no sign of fading out. Five Americans died in a helicopter crash. A1

New Middle East Negotiations
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel is expected to evacuate civilians from some isolated settlements in the Gaza Strip as he prepares to renew negotiations with the Palestinian leadership. A6

Lively Elections in Hong Kong
Pro-democracy candidates mostly prevailed over pro-Beijing candidates in the first elections in Hong Kong since rallies shook the city's political establishment. A7

NATIONAL A12-19

Debate on Medicare Bill Focuses on Drug Prices
Some of the fiercest debate on the Medicare bill being considered by Congress has focused on a section of the bill that prohibits the government from negotiating lower drug prices for the people on Medicare. A1

Senator Bill Frist spent the weekend arm-twisting and trolling for votes, because for the Senate majority leader, the final hours of a Congressional session are the clearest measure of success or failure. A1

A Split on Gay Marriage
Many voters in Pennsylvania's Sixth Congressional District, one of the country's most evenly divided between Republicans and Democrats, have strong views on same-sex marriage but share a great level of tolerance toward gays. A12

Speed Limits Linked to Deaths
Increased Interstate Highway speed limits led to nearly 1,900 extra deaths in 22 states from 1996 to 1999, a report from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety says. A12

Dean's New Challenges
The Howard Dean campaign is devoting more attention to a looming question: How can Dr. Dean, the former governor of a nearly all-white, mostly rural state speak to urban issues and motivate minority voters? A13

Representative Richard A. Gephardt attacked Howard Dean's record as governor of Vermont, accusing Dr. Dean of trying to balance the state budget by slashing social programs for the poor and the disabled. A14

Dr. Dean's campaign and Senator John Kerry's said they would begin showing television commercials in Iowa criticizing a Republican Party advertisement on terrorism. A14

Bison Roam on the Reservation
Tribal leaders have invoked a 1994 federal law to request a compact to participate in managing the National Bison Range on Montana's Flathead Indian Reservation. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

PATH Station Reopens At Trade Center Site
The World Trade Center PATH Station opened to applause and tears after a $323 million, 16-month reconstruction, restoring a crucial commuter link to Lower Manhattan. The public is able to view the trade center foundations from within them for the first time since Sept. 11, 2001. A1

Playing the Endorsement Game
New York Democrats are preparing to take sides in the presidential contest as primaries and conventions loom. Many Democratic leaders are sitting on the fence or maneuvering behind the scenes to rally support for their favored candidate. B1

Filipinos Dominate Nursing
Filipinos are the largest ethnic group among nurses at many hospitals in the region. This phenomenon follows national trends. B1

A City of Many Faces
Mount Vernon, N.Y., a city marked by a spate of violence involving young people, is a complicated community, whose demarcations of race and class mirror those of Westchester County in many ways. B1

Neediest Cases B4

SPORTSMONDAY D1-8

EDUCATION

University Resisting Merger
Gov. James E. McGreevey's proposal to merge Rutgers, the New Jersey Institute of Technology and the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey is faltering because Rutgers is resisting a Jan. 1 deadline the governor set last week. B5

Rhodes Scholars Are Selected
The Rhodes Scholarship Trust announced the selection of 32 students as Rhodes scholars from the United States for 2004. A15

ARTS E1-10

OBITUARIES A21

Tony Thompson
A drummer whose beat for Chic helped define both disco and hip-hop, he was 48. A21

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Warner Music Deal Seen
Edgar Bronfman Jr. and a group of investors are expected to announce an agreement with Time Warner to buy Warner Music for $2.6 billion, people involved in the deal said. A1

Pressure on Cellular Providers
Federal rules allowing customers to keep their cellphone numbers when they move from one wireless carrier to another go into effect today. C1

Several companies that have created systems allowing cellphone numbers to be transfered are poised to profit from the ruling. C4

A separate ruling that allows customers to transfer their home numbers to cellphones will test the regional Bell companies. C1

Basic Cable Rates on the Rise
The average monthly rate for expanded basic cable service is up 40 percent since 1997, according to a report by the General Accounting Office. There is little public outcry. C1

The New Face of Seventeen
Hearst Magazines plans to use wholesome values to rejuvenate Seventeen magazine. C1

Mickey's Popularity Waning
The Walt Disney Company celebrated Mickey Mouse's 75-year anniversary, but some analysts say the mouse's popularity is dropping. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Rays of hope on energy; Microsoft's monopoly, in Europe; public campaign financing collapses; sheltering the neediest.
Column: William Safire.

Autos D9
Metro Diary B2
Bridge E4
TV Listings E8-9
Crossword E4
Weather A20

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TALIBAN (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (87%); CORRUPTION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SPEED LIMITS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); STUDENT HOUSING (76%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (76%); FIRES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (74%); HEZBOLLAH (74%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); BOMBINGS (71%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (71%); RELIGION (67%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (63%); MARRIAGE (60%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (56%); HELICOPTERS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (55%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (68%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CROATIA (93%); IRAQ (93%); TURKEY (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); HONG KONG (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); GEORGIA (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CHINA (68%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2003 



581 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Developing Nations Join Wireless World, U.N. Says
A recent United Nations report shows that governments and businesses in a growing number of developing nations have begun building the infrastructure needed for online commerce.
 Still, in countries like El Salvador, the development and use of online commerce has been haphazard. Earlier this year, Everest, a family business in San Salvador, sold in an Internet auction a big lot of coffee beans for a record price. But Aida Batlle, above, who helps manage the farms, said the family had no grand Internet plan. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. Page C7. 

Dana Rejects Latest Takeover Bid
The Dana Corporation said it had rejected a $2.7 billion takeover bid from a rival maker of auto parts, ArvinMeritor. Dana's rejection came a week after ArvinMeritor raised its bid to $18 a share from the $15 it had originally bid in July. C7.

Switching Allegiances in Computers
The dwindling relevance of the venerable Comdex computer show contrasts with the rising excitement of the Supercomputing show last week in Phoenix. The contrast tells a lot about how winners and losers emerge as computing technology reacts to technical advances as well as changing market and political realities. New Economy. C2.

Unconventional Music Outlets
Over the last several years -- with the practice of downloading songs free from the Internet exploding and the music industry slogging through a three-year sales slump -- musicians and labels have increasingly looked to avenues outside conventional stores to sell their wares. Many nontraditional music outlets, though, fall outside the reporting of Nielsen SoundScan, the industry's compiler of sales data, which is trying to keep its data current. C8.

Gruner & Jahr Executive Departs
The fallout at Gruner & Jahr USA Publishing after the end of the court case against Rosie O'Donnell has begun with the departure of Diane Potter, a senior vice president in charge of consumer marketing. Separately, Kate Kelly Smith, the publisher of Gruner & Jahr's Child magazine, is leaving to become publisher of Prevention. C6.

Satellite Service Takes Aim at Cable
The mudslinging between cable and satellite companies has become messier of late, as EchoStar Communications' recent advertising campaign for its Dish Network satellite television service depicts cable operators as money-hungry pigs. Advertising. C9.

The Muse Is in the Software
Ray Kurzweil, an inventor in the field of artificial intelligence, and John Keklak, an engineer, were granted a patent covering software that allows a computer to create original poetry by imitating but not plagiarizing the styles and vocabularies of poets. Patents. C7.

Deal Expected in Insurance Case
French Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin said in an interview that he thought France and United States legislative authorities were nearing an accord on Executive Life, an insurer in California that collapsed in 1991, a day before the deadline for a deal was to expire. C9.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 9,628.53 down 140.15Nasdaq composite -- 1,893.88 down 36.3810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.16% down 0.06The euro -- $1.1915 up 0.0136The dollar -- 108.80 yen up 0.55

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); PUBLISHING (87%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (85%); PLAGIARISM (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (76%); FAMILY (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INSURANCE (74%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (74%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); PATENTS (71%); MUSIC (70%); WRITERS (68%); POETRY (68%); INTERVIEWS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (66%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (65%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (65%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (61%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: DANA HOLDING CORP (84%); GRUNER & JAHR USA PUBLISHING (82%); DISH NETWORK CORP (82%); MERITOR INC (56%); GRUNER + JAHR AG & CO KG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%)

TICKER: DAN (NYSE) (84%); DISH (NASDAQ) (82%); MTOR (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (82%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (82%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (53%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EL SALVADOR (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2003 



582 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Little Outcry From Viewers As Rates Rise For Cable 

BYLINE:  By GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

 BODY:
John Dunning figures that he spends several hours a weekend watching cable channels, mostly sports. 
 But Mr. Dunning, a 64-year-old metallurgist in Corvallis, Ore., says that he has begun to think his cable bill -- $40 a month for about 50 channels -- is pretty high. He toyed with switching to satellite from cable, but so far he is sticking with cable. 
 For one thing, he receives high-speed Internet access through his cable provider, a service that satellite systems do not offer. But also, "it is a bit of a hassle to switch," he said. "Doing nothing is always easier."
 Mr. Dunning's attitude may not be unusual among the nation's cable subscribers. A recent report by the General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress, shows that the average monthly rate for what the industry calls expanded basic cable service is $36.47. That is up 40 percent since 1997, when the monthly average was $26.06. And it contrasts sharply with the rise of 12 percent in the Consumer Price Index for the same period. 
 Yet the comparison is not quite as stark, considering that the average expanded basis cable tier -- a menu of nonpremium services, typically including CNN, ESPN and MTV -- is 63 channels, compared with 48 in 1997. That may partly explain why there has been relatively little consumer outcry over the steady increase in cable rates since the industry was deregulated seven years ago. And the expansion of satellite television has provided an alternative, particularly in rural markets, for customers seeking specialized programming like sports. 
 Consumer groups argue that the public has simply given up protesting the increase in cable rates because no one in Republican-controlled Washington these days seems interested in doing anything about it -- a theory supported by Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, who tried to preserve cable regulation in 1996 and has long been seen as a consumer advocate in communications matters. Even if someone is unhappy about cable rates, Mr. Markey said in a telephone interview, "They can't go to the House, they can't go to the Senate and they can't go to the president, because nobody cares." 
 The GAO report, commissioned by Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, stopped short of saying anything should be done about price increases or whether they were justified. But it did recommend that the Federal Communications Commission continue to monitor the state of competition in the pay-TV business. Cable industry executives insist that consumers are not complaining about their monthly bills because they are getting so much value for their cable dollar. And cable executives argue that much of the money from the higher rates has been reinvested in network technology. A report by the National Cable Television Association says that the industry has made $75 billion in capital expenditures since 1996 to upgrade systems and to add digital video, fast Internet access and telephone calling capabilities. Today, of the nation's 70 million cable subscribers, about 21 million take digital video and 15 million use high-speed Internet access.
 The industry also contends that it is saddled with rising programming costs. Cox Communications, the nation's third-largest media company behind Comcast and Time Warner is making a very public case that its spending for programming has been rising steadily. Indeed, Cox is in a battle with the Walt Disney Company's ESPN sports network, contending that ESPN's demand for 20 percent annual increases in the per-subscriber fee that Cox pays is unrealistically high. ESPN counters that, after local advertising revenue is factored in, Cox's monthly costs for all programming represent only $6 to $7 of a customer's monthly bill.
 On Friday, Cablevision Systems, which provides cable service primarily on Long Island and other parts of metropolitan New York, said that it would raise rates by 3.2 percent next year, citing higher programming costs. It is the company's lowest increase in 15 years, a Cablevision spokesman said. 
 Leo Hindery, chairman and chief executive of the YES Network, which carries New York Yankees and New Jersey Nets games, has been in arbitration with Cablevision over programming fee payments. He also disputes the cable operators' argument that their programming fees are too high. "The cable industry raises rates to make more money, to cross subsidize its data and telephone businesses and to pass through legitimate cost increases," he said. "But to put it all on the backs of programmers is disingenuous." 
 The Cablevision spokesman countered, "Our capital and overhead costs are decreasing, while programming costs are up 34 percent over three years, according to the G.A.O. report."
 Analysts say cable operators are so sensitive about programming costs, because basic cable services are a mature business, with little room to grow.
 "Most of the major cable companies are generating strong cash flows, but the growth rates of the video units is slowing," said Matthew Harrigan, an analyst at the investment firm Janco Partners. "Meanwhile, the high-speed business has a bigger contribution relative to its size because the margins are high." 
 The industry also likes to cite data indicating that while consumers are spending more for cable, they are also spending more time watching it. An industry-commissioned study by Steven Wildman, an economist and professor for telecommunications at Michigan State University in East Lansing, found that people are spending 43 percent more time watching basic cable television than they did in 1997. 
 "It suggests that people are taking that time away from other things, so they believe cable TV is providing more value per unit of time spent," Professor Wildman said in a telephone interview last week. 
 But Gene Kimmelman, director for public policy at Consumers Union, questions whether such findings justify higher cable rates. "People may be watching more cable, but they are largely watching just a handful of cable networks and, therefore, consumers are being forced to pay for dozens of channels they hardly ever watch," Mr. Kimmelman said. He pointed to data by the Television Bureau of Advertising indicating that much of the cable viewing is devoted to eight advertiser-supported channels: ESPN, Lifetime, TNT, Nickelodeon, TBS, the Cartoon Network, USA Networks and Fox News. 
 The G.A.O. report addressed the possibility of cable channels being offered a la carte, but concluded that such a system could undermine the advertising support that enables cable operators to offer subscribers a diverse array of channels. 
 For all its spending, whether on programming or technology upgrades, the cable industry is financially healthy. Profit margins for Cox's cable operations were up for the first three quarters of the year -- to 36.6 percent, compared with 34.8 percent a year earlier. And Areyh Bourkoff, a cable analyst at the investment bank UBS, forecasts that Comcast will report an 18 percent increase in cash flow next year; Cablevision will show a 17.6 percent increase; and Cox will achieve a 12 percent increase. 
 In light of such projections, Mr. Hindery, the YES Network chief, has little patience for the cable operators' complaints about higher programming fees. "When a guy tells me his profits will be up 18 percent next year," he said, "it is not a bad business." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE TELEVISION (91%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (89%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); CONSUMER LAW (87%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (85%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); CABLE SYSTEM REGULATION (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (76%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (76%); BROADBAND (76%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (76%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); ACCOUNTING (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); EXECUTIVES (60%) TELEVISION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%) GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE; FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (79%); EDWARD J MARKEY (53%); BETSY MARKEY (53%) FABRIKANT, GERALDINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2003 



583 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Turks Say to Europe: Can't We Just Come as We Are? 

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Nov. 23 

 BODY:
Serra Bayburt raised her voice over the thumping strains of Gloria Gaynor's "I Will Survive" in a fashionable bar beside the Bosporus and expressed her views on Turkey's future.
 "Most of us want the economic advantages of being part of the West, but we don't want to be their slaves," said Ms. Bayburt, 34, a Muslim in a tight black dress drinking Campari and soda at the Memek bar. 
 Like many people in this city shaken by terrorist bombs, Ms. Bayburt has conflicting feelings about Turkey's relationship with Europe and the United States. While past opinion polls show that the vast majority of Turks aspire to become part of Europe, conversations with many people here in recent days suggest that there is a limit to those ambitions. 
The four deadly bombings over five days have once again energized talk of Turkey's joining the European Union, with some European leaders urging that this Muslim country be brought more quickly and firmly into the Western fold. The British foreign secretary, Jack Straw, said here on Saturday that the violence "strengthens our will and determination to do everything we can to ensure Turkey becomes a full member as soon as possible."
But many Europeans oppose Turkish membership, both on cultural and political grounds, and there remain huge obstacles to the country's further integration into the continent on which it has but a geographic toehold. The longer Turkey waits, the less its people are inclined to beg for membership in an organization that many think does not really want them.
"We've done everything they wanted, and they still haven't accepted us," complained a man in a blue track suit last week at the funeral of a friend killed in the bombings on Thursday.
Turkey has campaigned to become a part of Europe ever since the creation of the European Economic Community in 1958. But its efforts have been found continuously wanting, even as other nations -- most notably those from Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union -- have been ushered ahead into the club.
It took until 1999 for the European Union to accept Turkey as a formal candidate, and it still has not set a date to begin negotiations on the country's membership application. The union's heads of government have promised to review Turkey's bid in December next year and make a decision "without delay" on when negotiations will begin.
Turkey has worked hard to meet the union's expectations, passing legislation that allows Kurdish-language broadcasts, for instance, or reducing the role of the military in the day-to-day management of the country. But the union's November progress report said more needed to be done, and it raised the bar higher again by suggesting to Turkey that its application is tied to the intractable Cyprus problem.
Cyprus has been divided between Greek and Turkish administrations since 1974, when Turkey seized the northern third of the island in response to a Greek-engineered coup. Greece became a full member of the European Union in 1981, and Greek Cyprus will join the organization in May, leaving the Turkish-held north outside the union. The union said in its report that failure to find a Cyprus solution would pose a "serious obstacle" to Turkey's membership.
"We're facing a very big dilemma and a huge double standard on the Cyprus question," said Egemen Bagis, foreign policy adviser to Turkey's prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan. He complained that the union was applying a double standard by allowing Cyprus to join but making resolution of the issue a prerequisite to Turkey's membership.
"No Turkish politician can tell people we have to put up with this double standard," Mr. Bagis said.
Many people in Turkey see the European Union's chronic dissatisfaction as a pretext to press the nation into adopting pro-European policies. Even if Turkey accedes to union demands on Cyprus, they say, there is still no guarantee that it would become an member.
"Most people think Turkey will never be accepted and that these are delaying tactics to postpone making a decision," said Cigdem Nas, a professor at Mamara University's European Community Institute in Istanbul. "They are using membership as a carrot to try to make Turkey change for Europe's benefit, as in its Cyprus policy."
In fact, the core of the union's reluctance is less Cyprus or Turkish reforms than an intramural debate over Europe's own identity as the continent slips into an era of demographic change. Many in Europe have yet to accept that the white, Christian culture of their ancestors is giving way to a multicultural mix heavily weighted with Islam.
Europe's governments are already grappling with the social tensions created by expanding Muslim immigrant communities. Shrinking populations across Europe mean more immigration is in store. Accepting Turkey as a European Union member would quicken that trend and irrevocably alter the definition of Europe.
Part of the problem is Turkey's population of 70 million. In Europe only Germany is bigger, and given the two countries' birth trends, Turkey could be the leader by the time it is admitted to the union. That would give it a major -- to some Europeans, an inordinate -- say in European affairs. Former President Valery Giscard d'Estaing of France spoke for many Europeans a year ago when he said Turkey's membership would be "the end of Europe."
But there is also a deep, amorphous fear in Europe of accepting a Muslim country into its midst, despite Turkey's strong secular tradition, in which many people practice their religion with the same moderation as European Catholics.
Back at the Memek bar, the voices of Donna Summer and Barbra Streisand are booming "Enough Is Enough" through the gyrating crowd. If it were not for the Turkish lira changing hands at the bar, the scene could be in Italy or Germany or even France.
"If the E.U. is happy with the way we are, okay," said Ms. Bayburt, "but I don't want to change for anyone."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Policemen guarded the entry to a blocked Istanbul street yesterday near the bombed British Consulate as owners looked after damaged shops. (Photo by Associated Press); Eray Erkoca, 8, cried yesterday in Istanbul at the funeral of his mother, Aynur, one of at least 27 people killed in terror bombings on Thursday. (Photo by Agence France-Presse/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); RELIGION (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); TERRORISM (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (56%) Bombs and Explosives; Islam; United States International Relations; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%) European Union

PERSON: JACK STRAW (51%) Craig S Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%) EUROPE (98%); TURKEY (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%) Turkey; Europe; Turkey

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2003 



584 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Amid Acceptance of Gays, A Split on Marriage Issue 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: ARDMORE, Pa., Nov. 21 

 BODY:
As friends, work colleagues and lunch buddies, Niema Faulkner and Helene Hall never knew how differently they viewed gay marriages until a Massachusetts court ruled that same-sex couples have the right to marry under the state's Constitution.
 "It's a good idea," Ms. Faulkner, 23, said firmly. "How can someone else tell you who you can love and who you can marry? Whoever you love is your own business. It's between you and your God." 
 As Ms. Hall, 55, listened, her eyes widened. "I just don't agree," she said. "You marry to procreate. You can't procreate if you marry someone from the same sex. As a Catholic, I feel very strongly about this. My religion doesn't permit me to agree with that kind of lifestyle." 
But she made it clear that beyond the question of marriage, she would not want to interfere with private behavior. "If you choose to be with a female partner," she told her friend, "I wouldn't tell you what to do." 
And so another polarizing social issue is pulsing through the body politic. But judging from interviews with dozens of people here in Pennsylvania's Sixth Congressional District, in the swing suburbs of Philadelphia, many voters may have sharply held views on gay marriage but still seem to share a high degree of tolerance toward homosexuals.
Indeed, the responses to the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court ruling were passionate. Those in favor hailed it as a long-overdue victory for human rights. But even as those opposed criticized it as further evidence of America's crumbling morals and traditions, many turned around and said they had no objection to civil unions or gay relationships, a strong indication that America is growing ever more comfortable with nontraditional lifestyles.
Kathryn Czapinski, 59, a nurse and a Roman Catholic, said she was "totally outraged" by the court's decision, because of her religious convictions and the prospect of government spending on benefits for people whom she regarded as violating the sanctity of marriage.
But civil unions? "I have no objection," she said. "If they want to recognize civil unions for gays, giving them insurance benefits, things like that, I'm not against that."
Nor were Bill McConaghy, 66, a funeral director, and Walter Shields, 42, a carpenter and electrician for Septa, the area's public transportation system. 
They both said they found the idea of gays marrying repugnant. They said they supported the idea floating through Congress of a constitutional amendment defining marriage as a union between a man and a woman. 
Yet they held the same view as Ms. Czapinski. They said they were not uncomfortable with gay unions.
"I'm not against anybody living that way," said Mr. McConaghy, a Roman Catholic. "It's just the way I was brought up. Gay marriage is taking it way too far."
Mr. Shields, 42, said: "As a Christian, I don't believe in it. I don't read the Bible that way. A man is supposed to be with a woman." But as for two men or two women living together in a gay union, he said, "It doesn't bother me."
The issue was also not so simple for Pamela, 39, a nurse who declined to give her last name. She appeared clearly perplexed. As a Catholic, she said she opposed gay marriages, but she looked at the issue as one of personal choice. 
"It's not part of my own personal beliefs," she said. "But I do feel people have the right to be happy, and they have to be accountablefor their own decisions."
What people here on Philadelphia's Main Line have to say about the issue is instructive, because this Congressional district is one of the most evenly divided in the country between Republicans and Democrats. In 2000, Al Gore carried it by fewer than one percentage point over George W. Bush. Last year, Jim Gerlach, a former Republican state lawmaker, won an open House seat by fewer than two percentage points.
The Sixth promises to be a battleground district in a battleground state in next year's presidential election, although most voters interviewed said other concerns, like developments in Iraq and the economy, would have a greater bearing on how they voted than a candidate's position on gay marriage.
While several days of interviews with people who live, work or shop in the area does not constitute a scientific survey -- and no one interviewed claimed to be gay -- some factors seemed apparent. Views on gay marriage generally followed partisan lines. Like President Bush, Republicans were against it; Democrats were typically for it, although most Democrats running for president are not. Men seemed more uncomfortable with gay marriage than women. Younger voters seemed more tolerant of gay relationships than older voters. And nobody shied away from offering an opinion.
For some uncomfortable with the concept, there were no hairs to split. Hilda James, 83, a home nurse, said the idea of gay marriage, even gay unions, "makes me sick to my stomach." She said her views were based on the Bible and on her upbringing in the Church of God in Christ.
"It's a moral issue for me," she said of any gay relationship. "God made us different, told us to multiply and replenish the earth. That's why we're here. Two men together or two women together cannot do that."
A divorced 46-year-old grocery store worker named Frank was equally opposed, so much so that he was one of the few who said he would consider a candidate's position on the issue before voting.
Frank did not want to give his last name because, he said, his boss "lives an alternative lifestyle" and he did not want to risk losing his job by questioning it. But question it he did, saying: "It's not right. I have a real religious upbringing, and I worry what effect this could have on kids 10, 20 years down the line."
Wayne Klaus, 62, a retired business executive, said he was heartened that the Massachusetts court gave the State Legislature six months to make same-sex marriage possible. "The Massachusetts court made a prudent decision," he said. "Rather than put its ruling into effect right away, it gave the Legislature the opportunity to change its view. A marriage is a man and woman, which we've had 5,000-odd years to affirm."
Larry Weinstein, 29, a lawyer, was one of the few Republicans interviewed who did not criticize the ruling. "Doesn't bother me at all," he said, dismissing the arguments of people who say they oppose the decision for religious or moral reasons. "This is based on a principle of the Constitution, which guarantees life and liberty for everybody, not just heterosexuals. It's for everybody."
That argument fairly well reflected the position held by most supporters of the court ruling who were interviewed. To them, the choice of partners was an inherent right and nobody else's business. 
Mary Burns, 45, a public school reading specialist and a former resident of Massachusetts, said it had occurred to her that holding up church teachings and heterosexual marriages as ideals might not be entirely instructive.
"I've known homosexual couples more committed to each other than heterosexuals," Ms. Burns said. "And given the abuses we've heard about recently in the Catholic Church, you can't necessarily say religion should be the final word. Just because something happens in the context of the church doesn't make it more holy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pamela, who did not give her last name, said she opposed same-sex marriage but saw it as a matter of personal choice. Walter Shields said the idea of gay couples living together did not bother him, but gay marriage did.; Helene Hall, left, and Niema Faulkner, co-workers in Ardmore, Pa. Same-sex marriage is "a good idea," Ms. Faulkner said. Ms. Hall responded, "My religion doesn't permit me to agree with that kind of lifestyle." (Photographs by Annie McCormick for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (94%); GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); COHABITATION (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (88%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); MARRIAGE LAW (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (70%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (60%) Marriages; Homosexuality; Public Opinion; Election Issues; Marriages

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT (54%)

PERSON: Michael Janofsky

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2003 



585 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: Dean's New Challenge: Reaching Out to Black Voters 

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN

 BODY:
Cynthia Williams showed up nearly an hour before Howard Dean's scheduled appearance at Mount Olivet Baptist Church in Harlem yesterday morning, eager to disappear among the women in feathered hats who filled the pews. For once, the only thing making Ms. Williams, an African-American computer technician from Nutley, N.J., stand out was the blue Dean button on her lapel.
 "So many events that I go to I'm like one of maybe two black faces," said Ms. Williams, 37, a staunch Dean fan who has followed her candidate to more than a dozen events in New York, New Jersey and New Hampshire over the last year. "The only thing I can say the reason why is there hasn't been any effort to reach out to minorities." 
 Ms. Williams's experience points to a problem that has been looming over Dr. Dean's presidential campaign throughout his surge to the front of the field this summer and fall. How can Dr. Dean, the former governor of a nearly all-white, mostly rural state, speak to urban issues and motivate the minority voters who have been a mainstay of the Democratic electorate for decades? 
The campaign has devoted increasing attention to this question in recent weeks, calling attention to the support it has won from several leading black politicians and two major unions with many African-American and Hispanic members. Indeed, the crowds at union-led rallies on Dr. Dean's behalf this weekend in Detroit and New York were among the most racially diverse he has seen, and he has recently begun referring to his campaign as a rainbow.
But it was just a few weeks ago that Dr. Dean's handling of criticism for his comments about wanting to be the candidate for "guys with Confederate flag decals on their pickup trucks" raised concerns about his command of the complex racial dynamics of the country, particularly in the South. 
Dr. Dean, 54, was not active in the civil rights movement, and has neither the political network of black ministers and community leaders nor the personal relationships that have helped other white candidates. His campaign's heavy use of the Internet has largely bypassed poorer pockets of African-Americans and Latinos, and issues like crime, drugs and failing public schools have not been centerpieces of his message.
"There is some level of disconnect," said David Bositis of the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a research group. "He doesn't strike me as someone who has a great deal of rapport so that when he speaks, African-Americans are immediately drawn into an intimate conversation."
Dr. Dean has brushed off this criticism, arguing that his agenda of universal health insurance and help for small businesses, while not geared toward minorities, resonates among them. He frequently cites the fact that he had two black roommates his freshman year at Yale and went to medical school in the South Bronx as evidence that he understands the African-American experience.
In a recent interview, Dr. Dean summed up his relationship with black voters the way he had at a dinner with black leaders in South Carolina: "I've got soul."
"I don't know what I mean by that -- I wish I could tell you," he said in the interview. "There's something in me that gets it."
Yet at a recent meeting in South Los Angeles, Dr. Dean struggled to respond convincingly to some of the questions. When Malik Spellman, a writer for a black newspaper, said that "all my friends are dead or in jail," Dr. Dean offered his stock answer about providing health care for all children.
"I know 14-year-olds who eat Top Ramen every day," Mr. Spellman said, pointing out that babies with drug-addicted mothers and fathers in prison had no one to take them to the doctor. "You don't have to answer me, but let this be a sting to your chest and a reminder to your consciousness that the state of black America is terrible."
Asked about the incident later, Dr. Dean said, "I've heard that speech 800 times."
"It's the right policy answer -- it's not the answer he wanted to hear," he said. "What Bill Clinton would do is the 'I feel your pain' stuff. I can't be like Bill Clinton, and I'm not going to be like anybody other than who I am."
Dr. Dean dismissed any suggestion that he faced a steep learning curve, even though his work in a New Haven public school and the South Bronx hospital were a generation ago, before crack and AIDS.
"Unfortunately the world hasn't changed enough in inner-city America," he said. "You don't forget what you learn in inner-city America when you're in medical school and you see 9-year-olds with gunshot wounds."
Indeed, several experts say Dr. Dean's background as a physician is his strongest selling point. African-Americans were also the most fervent opponents of the Iraq war, the issue that put him in the spotlight. On the stump, he regularly talks even to all-white audiences about affirmative action, blasting President Bush for using the word "quota."
"I find many people, including some who don't support him, who very much like his manner, his forcefulness," said Julian Bond, the chairman of the N.A.A.C.P. "The rolled-up sleeves, the passion, the attack. Black people, they want somebody who can trash Bush."
Dr. Dean won friends at the Congressional Black Caucus by being the first presidential candidate to seek an audience, and by endorsing its bill on minority health issues. He mentioned that yesterday in his New York visit, which ended at a birthday party fund-raiser for Representative Major R. Owens in Brooklyn. The caucus chairman, Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, and Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr. of Chicago are expected to announce their formal endorsements of Dr. Dean soon.
Since hiring Andi Pringle, an African-American strategist, as his deputy campaign manager, Dr. Dean has spent many Sundays in black churches. He recently told congregants in Detroit, "Its going to be a long time before I go to a white church again." He also has aides devoted to promoting him in the African-American news media and has hired Doug Thornell, the former spokesman for the black caucus, as his traveling press secretary.
Donna Brazile, a leading African-American consultant who is not involved in the race, said Dr. Dean called her for advice more often than any other candidate except her former boss, Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri. 
Christopher Edley, a Harvard law professor who is among Dr. Dean's leading black supporters, said that what his candidate lacked in experience with minorities, he made up for with "values that provide a compass and a political character that is prepared to take on tough issues."
Complicating Dr. Dean's efforts to win support among blacks are the candidacies of two Southerners, Senator John Edwards of North Carolina and Gen. Wesley K. Clark of Little Rock, Ark., as well as two African-American candidates, the Rev. Al Sharpton of New York and former Ambassador Carol Moseley Braun of Chicago. 
Of the 13,000 people who responded to a recent query on blackplanet .com, the largest Web site devoted to African-Americans, 41 percent backed Mr. Sharpton and 19 percent Ms. Braun. General Clark and Dr. Dean each got about 9 percent.
Mr. Sharpton, angry about Representative Jackson's pending endorsement, recently denounced Dr. Dean's record as "antiblack," citing his comments in 1995 that affirmative action should be based on class, not race, as well as his support for Internet voting in Michigan and steep criminal sentencing guidelines.
Jarvis Stewart, a black lobbyist and fund-raiser in Washington, said Dr. Dean "needs to go and really get an indoctrination into the souls of black folks."
"He needs to take a page out of Clinton's book," Mr. Stewart said. Yesterday, given only a minute to make his pitch to the Harlem congregation, Dr. Dean did just that.
"I will make you only one promise," he said. "If I am elected president of the United States, I will be back here at Mount Olivet."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 28, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about Howard Dean's support among black voters misstated his age. He is 55, not 54.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Howard Dean attended services at Mount Olivet Baptist Church in Harlem yesterday morning. Later in the day, supporters heard him speak at a union rally in Lower Manhattan. (Photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (88%); POLITICS (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); GOVERNORS (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (66%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (65%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); INTERNET & WWW (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Blacks; Hispanic-Americans; Organized Labor

PERSON: Jodi Wilgoren; Howard (Dr) Dean

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2003 



586 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: In Croatian Parliament Election, Nationalists Reclaim Control 

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS WOOD

DATELINE: ZAGREB, Croatia, Nov. 23 

 BODY:
The Croatian Democratic Union, a hard-line nationalist party ousted from power four years ago, appeared set on Sunday to form Croatia's next government after preliminary results showed it had won a clear lead in parliamentary elections.
 The party, which was defeated in January 2000 elections over allegations of corruption, beat all predictions and won an estimated 62 seats in Parliament, which would give it enough power to form a strong coalition government. 
 As many as 140 seats were up for election, depending on how many people took part in the vote. 
The results, based on 30 percent of votes counted, were announced by the state electoral commission.
The party's leader, Dr. Ivo Sanader, said on national television that his party would seek to form a new coalition government over the next few days. "We are the only clear winners of these elections," he said.
Miomir Zuzul, the former ambassador to the United States who is likely to be named foreign minister, said, "Croatia will be led by a moderate center-right government over the next four years."
The victory for the Croatian Democratic Union follows an overhaul of its image, and a purge of extremists, some of whom were implicated in war crimes committed during the 1991-95 Balkan wars.
During the nine years they party was in power, it led Croatia to independence from Yugoslavia but developed a pariah status abroad. Its extreme nationalist policies prompted an estimated 280,000 Serbs to flee the country. The government was also heavily criticized for alleged corruption, a poor human rights record and heavy control of the media.
Dr. Sanader said the party had changed and that he intended to have Croatia join the European Union and NATO within the next two to three years.
He has also promised to pursue a sharply pro-American foreign policy, even offering to send troops to Afghanistan or Iraq.
The electoral commission's announcement was treated with jubilation in the party's Zagreb headquarters, where Champagne had been stocked.
While party members had expected to win, few had believed they would do by such a clear margin. The leader of the current center-left coalition in government, Prime Minister Ivica Racan, said his alliance had won just 41 seats.
Damir Grubisa, professor for European integration at Zagreb University, said the party's poor showing was "the result of the government's hesitancy in many fields."
Professor Grubisa said voters were disappointed with the reforms undertaken by the current government.
"There were no precise decisions taken in public" he said.
Mr. Racan conceded defeat in the evening, and said he would cooperate with the new government.
In an interview, he said the government had been responsible for democratic and economic advances in Croatia, but "could no longer live up to people's expectations."
His coalition had failed to reduce Croatia's unemployment rate, which had remained around 18 percent during Mr. Racan's premiership.
Despite the Croatian Democratic Union's victory, the new government may face a tough time ahead.
The party is openly hostile to the United Nations tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague. Cooperation with the tribunal is part of the criteria for membership in the European Union.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Ivo Sanader, leader of the Croatian Democratic Union. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (92%); CORRUPTION (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); WAR CRIMES (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%) Elections; Politics and Government; Election Results; Legislatures and Parliaments

PERSON: Nicholas Wood; Ivo (Dr) Sanader

GEOGRAPHIC: CROATIA (97%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%) Croatia

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2003 



587 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: Mount Vernon's Time of Trouble: A Divided City, Shocked by Crime 

BYLINE:  By LISA W. FODERARO

DATELINE: MOUNT VERNON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
This fall will not be remembered as a high point in this community, which seems a world apart from the wealthy Westchester that is etched in the popular imagination.
 In a city noticeably poorer, blacker and more needy than the rest of the county, the season has been marked by a series of crimes, all of them involving young people, that have rocked its schools and shaken residents here to their core. 
 But while Mount Vernon is sometimes caricatured as a place that stands in contrast to the prosperous swards of Westchester (itself a caricature), the city is, in fact, a complicated community. The city's demarcations of race and class in many ways mirror those of the county as a whole.
Mount Vernon stretches from the Bronx border to the ultrarich village of Bronxville, and its many neighborhoods encompass both socioeconomic extremes. With Mount Vernon's population more than half black, the traditional division between north and south now has less to do with race than class. And school officials talk about the problem of "bright flight," the tendency of wealthier residents, white and black, to send their children to private schools. 
"What you see in Mount Vernon is what you see in a lot of Westchester," said John Coppola, a lifelong resident and a professor of art history at Mercy College in nearby Dobbs Ferry. "There are some towns like Rye, Bronxville, Scarsdale and Larchmont that are pretty much white and upper class. But in Mount Vernon and most of Westchester it's a variety of different people from different places and the challenge there is for people to get along with each other."
The recent spate of violence began in early October, when four shootings occurred within three days. One victim was a 12-year-old boy who was shot in the back while playing basketball in a schoolyard.
Then came a disturbing case of sexual misconduct in a high school bathroom that involved a 15-year-old girl who, the police said, had oral sex with several football players. That was followed this month by two arrests at one middle school on the same day: a 19-year-old teacher's aide was charged with soliciting sex from a 14-year-old girl, and an 18-year-old man was arrested and charged with second-degree rape after the police said he signed out another 14-year-old girl on false pretenses and then had sex with her.
In some respects, Mount Vernon seems to share more with New York City than with suburban Westchester. Students at the sprawling high school must pass through metal detectors, and a day care center is available for the babies of students, not teachers. Though crime here fell through the 1990's, there were still 10 homicides lastyear.
In a county that is overwhelmingly white, Mount Vernon's minority community now represents the majority, with 60 percent of the city's 68,000 residents identifying themselves as black or African-American. Mount Vernon stands out all the more for its shared border with Bronxville, among the wealthiest communities in one of the richest counties in the United States. Bronxville's black population is 1.2 percent.
But the image of Mount Vernon as merely a troubled city within Westchester is too simplistic. Traditionally called the "City of Homes," for its many fine Tudors and colonials, Mount Vernon was the birthplace or childhood stomping ground of E. B. White, Dick Clark and Art Carney and, more recently, Denzel Washington and P. Diddy.
There are integrated neighborhoods in northern Mount Vernon, near the Bronxville border, where million-dollar, slate-roofed houses sit upon meticulously landscaped properties. Belonging to a mix of black and white professionals, the houses are indistinguishable from those in Bronxville, except that they command half the price, real estate agents say.
In many ways, Mount Vernon, which measures 4.2 square miles, is two cities in one. The median household income in the city's wealthiest census tract, in the north, is $89,746; in the poorest tract, located in the south end, it is $21,724.
The vibrant commercial and residential district of Fleetwood in northern Mount Vernon seems to have carved out its own identity, as illustrated by its residents' preference for the neighborhood's name over the city's. "Fleetwood has always tried to be a separate enclave," said Brian J. Nickerson, director of the Michaelian Institute for Public Policy and Management at Pace University in White Plains. 
Even its own residents often see Mount Vernon as two separate communities.
Some homeowners in the stately residential neighborhoods, as well as those in the co-op buildings and neat two-family houses in Fleetwood, rarely venture south of the Metro-North train tracks.
Similarly, in the southern part of the city -- an urban patchwork of public housing, storefront churches and 99-cent stores -- some residents seemed only vaguely familiar with Fleetwood. "I don't have occasion to go there," said Yvonne Quashie, 42, a secretary who moved from the Bronx two years ago. "Is it a part of Mount Vernon? I wasn't sure."
Complicating matters for the public schools is the fact that many residents in the north end send their children to private schools, particularly after sixth grade. While the city is 28.6 percent white, the 10,200-student school district is only 9 percent white, school officials say. That skewed demographic means that students in the public schools have greater needs and problems, those officials say.
"There is a serious 'bright flight' in Mount Vernon," said Larry H. Spruill, the principal of Mount Vernon High School and the city's historian. "And I can tell you point blank that this is a middle-class issue, not a race issue."
Dr. Spruill's assessment is reflected in the city's two most wealthy census tracts, where blacks make up, respectively, a quarter and a half of the population, but where black households earn more than the white households by a comfortable margin.
After taking the helm of the high school last year, Dr. Spruill discovered that almost a third of the school's 2,500 students were failing three or more courses after the first marking period. In addition, 42 percent of seniors were at risk of not graduating.
He immediately created a 10-week program, called the Saturday Learning Academy,in which students were able to work extra hours to receive passing grades in two courses. Eighty percent of the seniors went on to graduate. "It was a way to salvage the marking period," Dr. Spruill said. "It was almost like an amnesty: here's a chance to get it right."
Mount Vernon's superintendent of schools, Brenda L. Smith, said the publicity surrounding the recent episodes detracted from the district's achievements. Sitting behind a desk piled with papers, Mrs. Smith rattled off a list of the district's assets and accomplishments. The high school, which offers 13 Advanced Placement courses, has an expanded Reserve Officers Training Corps program, a new college center, a new digital photo lab, two new art galleries and a revamped music department.
State officials have singled out the district for its marked improvement on the statewide standardized tests. Across the 11 elementary schools, 85 percent of fourth graders now meet the standards in math, up from 51 percent in 1999. On the English Language Arts test, 83 percent of students meet the state standards, up from 35 percent.
But if Mount Vernon has struggled with a set of psychological and economic fissures, it has faced a veritable chasm with some neighbors. Officials here bristled when the well-to-do villages of Pelham and Pelham Manor opposed a proposed retail complex on Sandford Boulevard, which Mount Vernon had long sought.
The 285,000-square-foot center -- with a Best Buy, Target, T. J. Maxx and Bed, Bath and Beyond -- is now rising on 15 acres a few blocks from the Pelham border, where the Pelham public schools and athletic fields are situated.
Through angry letters and continuing litigation, the villages have registered their concern about traffic so close to their schools. At the same time, Mount Vernon's mayor, Ernest D. Davis, accused the opponents of arrogance and insensitivity and called Pelham a "closed community."
With the project scheduled for completion in the spring, Mount Vernon is looking forward to $5 million a year in new sales tax revenues. "It gives us a new lease on life, a new ability to address some of the problems we have," Mayor Davis said.
Mayor Davis said he hoped, too, to entice his own residents in the north to a hard-bitten patch in the city's south end, through a planned hip-hop museum and artists' studios. "Fleetwood is sending a message, and that is, 'Look, we are happy where we are, and you have to bring everything up to our standards,' " he said. "I think that's a healthy challenge."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The site of a planned hip-hop museum in the southern part of Mount Vernon, N.Y., where recent crimes have left residents shaken. Below, a Reserve Officers Training Corps drill at the city's high school. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B6) Map of New York highlighting Mount Vernon: Mount Vernon, tucked between wealthy and poor communities. (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PARAEDUCATORS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); ARRESTS (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); HISTORY (73%); BASKETBALL (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); ILLEGAL PROSTITUTION (71%); HOMICIDE (71%); METAL DETECTORS (71%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); SEX OFFENSES (68%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (66%); ART HISTORY (65%); MISCONDUCT (50%) Blacks; Education and Schools; Housing; Private and Sectarian Schools; Crime and Criminals; Children and Youth

PERSON: Lisa Foderaro

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Mount Vernon (NY); Westchester County (NY); Mount Vernon (NY)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2003 



588 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
Some Help Picking Up Pieces Of a Life That Just Crumbled

BYLINE:  By ARTHUR BOVINO

 BODY:
For years, Thomas Crater Jr. would lie awake at night in his apartment in Jamaica, Queens, dreaming of doing something that mattered. Then, in 1980, after years working as an advertising executive for publications, his dreams took form.
 "I wanted to publish a newspaper in this community," Mr. Crater said. "The community needed to have a true reflection of the progress it was making. I think we needed to talk about the positive as well as the negative aspects of Jamaica." 
 On Sept. 1, 1980, Mr. Crater incorporated himself. For the next six years, he saved money and researched his ideas.
"I realized I had to do all the other aspects: write the copy, be the art director, sell the advertising, be the circulation person," he said. "I didn't have the money. I had to convince people to pay advertising dollars up front."
Burger King and AT&T Wireless signed up to be the first major advertisers in a newspaper whose pages had yet to see ink. Mr. Crater raised about $1,200 for his first print run of 3,500 copies.
It was in this way that The New York Page was born.
In 16 years, Mr. Crater published about 160 issues. Except for a brief period when he had a small staff before the economic downturn, Mr. Crater did most of the work himself. He was reporter, photographer, editor and publisher.
The New York Page, which never charged a cent, chronicled life in Jamaica, its galas, new apartment buildings and street fairs, its traffic and construction issues, its crimes, trials, elections, accidents and new businesses.
The newspaper averaged about 20 pages and grossed between $2,500 and $6,000 an issue, Mr. Crater said. He used the money to pay off student loans and help family members, and he reinvested the rest in the paper. He was able to keep $3,000 to $4,000 in savings over the 16 years.
"There's nothing like owning your own press. It's the only free press you know," he said.
When advertising revenues started to decline after Sept. 11, 2001, Mr. Crater did not worry.
But in December 2002, he received a call from AT&T Wireless, his most profitable advertiser.
"They told me they were going to be cutting back on their wireless advertising," he said.
"The next thing I knew, I was behind on my rent. This newspaper was keeping me alive for all these years. I realized I didn't have any more money."
The last issue of The New York Page was published that December. Mr. Crater started poring over the classified ads to look for a job.
He went to a local grocery, but he says he was turned away because of his history as a journalist.
"I guess they thought I was trying to do an inside story," he said.
By that point, he said, "everything was deteriorating. I started going out collecting cans and bottles just so that I could be independent. I made about $60 to $75 a day."
Most of his family had died, so there was no one to turn to. He and his wife had been separated since 1983. And, to add one more complication, Mr. Crater takes care of his sister, Adna Mae, who has cerebral palsy.
In January, Mr. Crater began receiving notices of eviction and having anxiety attacks.
But soon after, he found help -- in the pages of a newspaper. Mr. Crater read a column in The Amsterdam News of Harlem written by David R. Jones, the president of the Community Service Society. The society is one of seven charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
The article struck a chord with Mr. Crater, and he decided to write a letter to Mr. Jones, thinking Mr. Jones might understand his plight.
Mr. Crater was referred to Anna Auleley, a caseworker at the society, who secured $2,199.85 from the Neediest Cases Fund to pay his back rent. The agency also gave him $379.13 to pay his utilities and phone bills, and $324 for food and transportation to look for work.
"I felt a little embarrassed at times," Mr. Crater said.
At the same time, he was grateful. The society offered him resources, like Internet access, to look for work. He took a summer job as program director for the youth employment program at the Council for Airport Opportunity. He also found another temporary job taking surveys for the Jamaica Center Improvement Association.
Still, these were temporary fixes. When his job as program director ended, Mr. Crater again fell behind on his rent.
Now his dreams, once realized, are again only dreams.
But they are dreams he is not ready to give up. Mr. Crater still hopes to raise money and regain his corporate advertisers.
In the meantime, as he waited once before to start his newspaper, he is waiting now. And he is looking for work.
"You want to pull yourself up by your own bootstraps," he said. "I think I can make it."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7) or online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimesneediest.charitywave.com. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $2,531,128.86
Recorded Thursday: 32,416.81
Total: $2,563,545.67
Last year to date: $2,784,978.20

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas Crater Jr.'s life was The New York Page, a free newspaper in Jamaica, Queens. When the economy went bad, he was left with nothing. (Photo by Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLISHING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (77%); WRITERS (77%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (72%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (71%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund; Newspapers

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (94%); AT&T INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Community Service Society of NY; New York Page (Newspaper)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%)

PERSON: Arthur Bovino; Thomas Jr Crater

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2003 



589 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Gephardt Attacks Dean's Record as Governor of Vermont 

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa, Nov. 23 

 BODY:
Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri sharply attacked Howard Dean's record as governor of Vermont on Sunday, accusing Dr. Dean of trying to balance the state budget by repeatedly slashing social programs for the poor and the disabled in the 1990's.
 Mr. Gephardt criticized Dr. Dean for cutting spending on health care, dental coverage, special education and services for the poor, the blind and the disabled from 1993 to 1996. 
 Some of that money was ultimately restored to those programs by state legislators and the courts, Mr. Gephardt said, but he used those examples to draw a contrast between what he described as Dr. Dean's willingness to sacrifice social services for the poor and his own record of protecting such services as House majority leader under President Bill Clinton. 
In 1993, he said, he helped Mr. Clinton pass an economic plan that raised taxes on the wealthy, reduced taxes on the middle class and cut the national deficit while creating jobs, raising the minimum wage, protecting Medicare and investing in education and job training.
"If the heart of any presidency is who you're fighting for, then surely the muscle is how you pay for it," Mr. Gephardt said in a speech at Coe College here. "Time after time, when faced with budget shortfalls, Howard Dean's first and only instinct was to cut -- cut education, cut prescription drug coverage, cut Medicaid funding, cut aid to the blind and disabled."
"There is no place for governance without compassion," he said. "Fiscal responsibility is not amputation."
The speech capped seven days of attacks and counterattacks from Dr. Dean and Mr. Gephardt, who are in a war of words in Iowa. The exchanges have been unusually harsh, particularly for the early months of a presidential campaign. And many Democrats predicted that the candidates' dispute would probably spill into the presidential debate on Monday in Des Moines.
"The truth is that Dick Gephardt has no executive experience whatsoever," Dr. Dean told reporters in New York after Mr. Gephardt's speech. "I've had executive experience. I've had to make tough budget decisions."
Dr. Dean disputed some of the examples Mr. Gephardt cited, saying, for instance, that he did not cut $1 million from the elderly, blind and disabled in 1995, but simply kept the department's budget flat. (Gephardt campaign officials said the money was restored only after the Legislature and the courts intervened.)
"I'll put my health care record up against Dick Gephardt's any time, and I'll put my ability to balance a budget up against Dick Gephardt's, any time of the day," Dr. Dean said, citing Vermont's near-universal coverage for children and low-income workers. "I understand his need to attack me in Iowa, but the fact is he knows nothing about balanced budgets."
This is an important state for both men, but particularly for Mr. Gephardt. His advisers say he must win Iowa if he has any hope of winning the Democratic nomination. He has been pounding away at Dr. Dean, his principal rival, since September, questioning Dr. Dean's commitment to Medicare and to fair trade. In recent weeks, he has been edging ahead in local polls. 
Dr. Dean started the most recent exchange on Nov. 17, when he hit Mr. Gephardt with the first negative television advertisement of the campaign season, one week after a local poll indicated that Mr. Gephardt was leading here.
The advertisement attacked Mr. Gephardt for voting to support the invasion of Iraq and for voting in favor of the allocation of $87 billion to support American troops and reconstruction efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan.
A day later, Dr. Dean's campaign sent an e-mail message to journalists that questioned Mr. Gephardt's viability as a candidate, noting that he had also struggled to raise money and counted on winning Iowa in his unsuccessful bid for the presidency in 1988. 
On Saturday, Mr. Gephardt released a negative television advertisement of his own, saying that in a debate in New York, Dr. Dean had publicly supported the appropriation of the $87 billion for Iraq. That same day, while Dr. Dean held rallies with his union supporters, the Gephardt campaign issued a statement saying that Dr. Dean supported the privatization of public sector jobs in the 1990's.
On Sunday, Mr. Gephardt denied that he was ratcheting up the rivalry with Dr. Dean.
"I respect his view," Mr. Gephardt told reporters after his speech. "I just think he's wrong. We have two distinct records here on how to deal with economics, jobs and the budget. There's a different way, in my view, to do these things."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard A. Gephardt criticized Howard Dean yesterday in a speech at Coe College, in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BLINDNESS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (85%); ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); JOB CREATION (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); MEDICARE (72%); MEDICAID (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); DENTAL INSURANCE (71%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); MINIMUM WAGE (67%); NATIONAL DEBT (53%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Election Issues

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%) Rachel L Swarns; Howard (Dr) Dean; Richard A (Rep) Gephardt

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (69%) VERMONT, USA (95%); IOWA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Vermont

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2003 



590 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: Iran's Nuclear Menace 

 BODY:
The board of the International Atomic Energy Agency failed to agree last week on how best to deter Iran from developing nuclear weapons. Britain, France and Germany favored a diplomatic approach that would encourage Iran to cooperate with the agency's inspectors while the United States pushed for a crackdown through the United Nations Security Council. Wisely, Washington has now backed down and will let the I.A.E.A. test how far Iran is willing to go. There is a struggle in Iran between those who want to cooperate with inspectors and hard-liners who seek a nuclear capability. It would be foolish to undercut the pragmatists. 
 Iran has long been suspected of nuclear weapons ambitions, but it came as a shock to learn in recent months that it has been pursuing a clandestine nuclear program for almost two decades. Thanks to tips from Iranian opposition groups, sharp sleuthing by I.A.E.A. inspectors and increasing pressure from Western powers, Iran was finally forced to admit that it had been pursuing both uranium enrichment and plutonium reprocessing technologies, at a level of sophistication no one dreamed possible. The Iranians contended, implausibly, that these programs were designed for civilian nuclear fuel, but surely there would be no need to conceal and lie about them if they were truly benign. Some experts think Iran could make a bomb in a couple of years if it pressed ahead vigorously. 
 The three European powers achieved a breakthrough last month when Iran agreed to suspend its enrichment program, sign a protocol allowing tougher international inspections and resolve all questions raised by the I.A.E.A. Now the same three nations are supporting a resolution before the agency's board of governors that would chastise the Iranians for their past misdeeds but would focus on their recent change of attitude as a way to move forward with additional fact-finding and inspections. The United States, which had been pushing for referral to the Security Council, a path that could lead to economic sanctions, agreed yesterday to back off and let the allies' resolution prevail.
The only clear imperative is that Iran must be pressed to reveal all its nuclear activities, past and present, and cooperate wholeheartedly with international inspectors. That can best be done by allowing the I.A.E.A. to continue demanding answers. When the agency's board reconvenes tomorrow, it should pass a resolution condemning Iran's secret programs and demanding that Iran prove that its programs are peaceful. The resolution should include a trigger mechanism to force international action if Iran reverts to stonewalling or deception. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); TERRORISM (65%) EDITORIALS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%) INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (88%) IRAN

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003 



591 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Nielsen Offers More Details On Lost Viewers

BYLINE:  By STUART ELLIOTT and BILL CARTER 

 BODY:
Nielsen Media Research, whose data shows a puzzling decline in younger males watching broadcast network television since the fall season began, offered a more detailed explanation yesterday for the shift in viewing habits that has vexed the networks, advertisers and agencies.
 The main findings of the 43-page report released late yesterday afternoon -- that Nielsen's changes to its methodology accounted for only 40 percent of the disappearing men, who otherwise could be spending more time with DVD's, video games and on the Internet -- did little to bring closure to the ratings controversy. 
 Executives at the broadcast networks said they would reserve judgment on Nielsen's attempt to explain the discrepancies, which some have referred to in recent weeks using disparaging language. Executives at agencies, however, were more willing to accept the findings of the report, at least initially, though they expressed some reservations about the results. 
"The report is very complicated and obscure," said David F. Poltrack, executive vice president for research at CBS in New York, part of Viacom. "I made a valiant attempt to make sense of it, but I need more time."
Brad Adgate, senior vice president and research director at Horizon Media in New York, said the report "seems pretty comprehensive." But, he added, "I would feel more comfortable if it had been done by an independent auditor or arbiter" rather than by Nielsen, which is based in New York.
The report from Nielsen, which has stoutly defended its data since the complaints from the networks began, found that changes in Nielsen's methodology that started as long as a year and a half ago are partly -- but not wholly -- to blame for the decline in viewership of network series among men ages 18 to 34. 
The report concluded that changes in lifestyles may be affecting the fidelity of participants in the ratings system. Parents who agreed to accept Nielsen equipment to measure viewership may now be more likely to have sons 18 to 34 living with them, the report said. And they may have less interest in taking part in ratings surveys than they are supposed to.
The drop in audience, amounting to 4.5 minutes a day in the prime-time evening hours, is worrying marketers because they spend billions of dollars a year to reach younger male viewers, who generally do not watch much television to begin with.
It worries the broadcast networks because an increased inability to deliver significant audiences to advertisers threatens their revenue, at a time when marketers are showing an increased willingness to explore alternatives to traditional advertising tactics like TV commercials. 
The fears are particularly intense among the broadcasters because the decline in male viewers 18 to 34 was not found by Nielsen among viewers of so-called basic cable networks, channels like FX, MTV, Spike TV and USA that run commercials. (There were also declines in viewership among 18-to-34-year-old men for pay networks like HBO that do not accept advertising, which is of much less interest to Madison Avenue.) 
The report was issued in response to mounting complaints from the networks as well as concerns expressed by executives at media-buying agencies. Since late summer, and particularly since the start of the 2003-4 season in September, the Nielsen ratings have showed a steep falloff in viewership among the younger men; as of Nov. 16, the total was down 7.7 percent in prime-time for the 18-to-34 male audience compared with the period last year.
Mr. Adgate of Horizon Media said he found some of the report's explanations satisfactory. One is the issue of the younger men who still live with or have moved back in with their parents, a group called dependent young adults.
Mr. Adgate said he also found interesting a suggestion that "some of the new technologies have hit critical mass" among younger men, drawing them to DVD's, video games and the Internet and away from TV.
"The median age for a video game player is 29," he added. "It's not an acne-faced teenager in his bedroom."
Steven Sternberg, senior vice president and director for audience analysis at Magna Global USA in New York, a media agency that is part of the Magna Global division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, said he hoped the report "puts to rest some of the nonsense about what's causing" the viewership decline; at one point Nielsen suggested the falloff was related to reservists being called up to serve in Iraq.
The Nielsen efforts to improve its sample may indeed have skewed the results, Mr. Sternberg said, because "it's always easy to get people who use a product a lot to participate in a survey."
"But when you're bringing in people who watch less television, it makes sense to me" they would affect the results, he added.
Mr. Sternberg said a good deal of the decline could be attributed to the fact that the broadcast networks were offering fewer series of interest to younger men for 2003-4 than they did last season, a theory that has been praised in trade publications as the "It's the programming, stupid" explanation.
"You program to them, they'll come," Mr. Sternberg said. "You don't, they'll drift away."
A senior executive at another Interpublic media agency praised the Nielsen report.
"Nielsen has done a terrific job with this and put a lot of resources against it," said Jon Swallen, senior vice president and director for media knowledge at Universal McCann in New York, part of the McCann-Erickson World Group unit of Interpublic. "It's very acceptable to me."
"That said, there's still a couple loose ends," he added, like the paucity of programming this season aimed at younger men, which is probably "a significant culprit for part of the decline" but not so identified in the report.
"One smoking gun might be the dependent young adults," Mr. Swallen said, "especially those 18 to 24, who are difficult to measure anyway and are not the ones who agreed to take the meters but are still in the house."
Paul Donato, chief research officer at Nielsen, owned by VNU, said he hoped the report would "help clients understand what the potential problems are," referring to the broadcast networks.
"We will continue to test issues" that may be affecting the results from younger men, Mr. Donato said, like "fatigue," a term used to describe how some respondents tire of pushing buttons on Nielsen devices known as people meters.
In other words, stay tuned. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MEN (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (73%) TELEVISION; MEN; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; ADVERTISING AND MARKETING 

COMPANY: NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (95%); VIACOM INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH 

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (95%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%) SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC; 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART; CARTER, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003 



592 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Difficult Times for Coffee Industry 

BYLINE:  By TONY SMITH 

DATELINE: PATROCINIO, Brazil 

 BODY:
Surrounded by coffee-lovers from as far afield as Baltimore and Bulgaria, the coffee farmer Luiz Norberto Paschoal removes the frothy top off one last cup of espresso with a theatrical slurp. Savoring the taste and aroma for just a few seconds, he then expels the liquid in a thick brown jet into a bucket at his feet.
 It is the end of a cupping -- the coffee industry's equivalent of a wine tasting -- at Mr. Paschoal's 7,100-acre farm, and the group of buyers, roasters and critics eagerly question him about sorting, drying, roasting and blending his high-value, espresso-quality arabica beans. 
 "If Ididn't do this type of marketing, I would be selling a mere commodity," he said. "And how would I survive just selling a commodity? I'd be broke, just like so many others." 
And the number of those who are broke is growing rapidly.
With coffee prices at a 30-year low, the industry is facing perhaps the worst crisis in its history, trapped in a vicious circle of falling demand, surplus production and collapsing prices.
Farmers, traders, roasters and retailers all agree urgent action is needed to prevent a slide in coffee quality and the loss of perhaps millions of jobs. However, there is no consensus on what to do.
The luckier ones like Mr. Paschoal, with enough capital to invest in technology and in marketing top-quality blends for the growing niche market of specialty coffees, are surviving and occasionally even thriving.
In recent months, Mr. Paschoal has installed sorting machinery in new warehouses at his farm, Fazenda Boa Vista, in the central state of Minas Gerais. He is also busy concocting a high-quality blend of the farm's DaTerra coffee for the Brazilian market.
But for the vast majority of the world's 25 million coffee growers, particularly those in the poorest countries of Africa and Central America, the outlook is bleak.
Coffee is the world's second most widely traded commodity after oil and provides jobs for millions in some of the world's poorest countries.
In Central America, the World Bank estimates that 600,000 coffee workers had recently lost full-time or temporary jobs, prompting a flight of Guatemalans and Hondurans to Mexico and a separate exodus of Mexican farmers into the United States. 
In Colombia, where coffee revenues have declined by 50 percent over the last 10 years, many growers are switching to more profitable -- and less benign -- crops like coca.
Large farms in Brazil, the world's largest producer where the industry employs 3 million people, have slashed the work force by as much as 90 percent through mechanization. Several small- and medium-sized cooperatives, which cannot afford to buy machinery because prices are so depressed, are on the brink of bankruptcy.
Of the $3 an American shopper pays for a tin of coffee at a retailer like Wal-Mart, Mr. Paschoal estimates coffee farmers receive an average of about 35 cents.
"Farmers need volume or price to survive, and today they have neither," Mr. Paschoal said. "The fuse is lit, but the time bomb has yet to explode."
At the root of the problem is oversupply. The 2001-2 harvest yielded 115 million sacks of coffee, while consumers worldwide drank 105 million, according to data from the International Coffee Organization. While supply is growing by over 3 percent, demand lags at just over 1 percent.
Many farmers blame Vietnam, which from 1990 to 2000 planted more than a million acres of robusta beans, raising its annual production to 950,000 tons from 84,000, overtaking Colombia as the world's No.2 producer, and flooding the market with cheap beans.
Brazilian coffee farmers, freed from restrictive quotas after the International Coffee Agreement collapsed in 1989, also doubled their robusta production over the last decade to almost 11 million bags by last year.
Marcelo Vieira, president of Brazil's specialty coffee association, said, "the problem is not Vietnam, but structural imbalances in the industry."
Not only are farmers harvesting too many beans for stagnant demand, but some big coffee roasters, eager to maintain profit margins, have tweaked their blends, reducing the percentage of high-quality arabica beans and replacing them with cheaper coffee from robusta beans.
That, Mr. Vieira complains, is like shooting yourself in the foot. Because robusta beans have a harsher taste, consumers are being turned off, coffee farmers say. As a result, demand has fallen further, taking prices down with it. As a result, farmers have less cash to invest in maintaining the quality of their product.
"The only way out of this is to promote coffee and get people the world over drinking more," Mr. Vieira said. "That's what the big players must do, rather than just focusing on the next quarter's results and effectively destroying the market."
The four big multinationals that control the global coffee market --Nestle, Kraft, Sara Lee and Procter & Gamble -- say they have not decreased the quality of their blends.
Procter & Gamble's top-selling Folger's brand is a $13 billion business in the multinational's portfolio, a company spokeswoman, Tonia Hyatt, said.
"We have grown sales year after year," she said, "and I don't think we would have done that with poor-quality coffee."
Yet the big roasters do appear increasingly concerned about promoting specialty coffees and being seen to buy top-grade arabica beans from farmers at a fair price.
Procter & Gamble recently offered a new premium brand called Millstone, which is certified under the industry's Fair Trade protocol, meaning farmers get a minimum $1.26 a pound for their beans, more than double the current average price of 52 cents a pound for green coffee.
"It's terrific news," said Sabrina Vigilante, the marketing coordinator for the Rainforest Alliance, a nonprofit organization that pioneered tropical timber certification and has joined the groups campaigning to get Third World coffee farmers a better deal.
"When one big company makes an announcement like that, you automatically see a whole lot of momentum," she said. "It's one of the most valuable things P.&G., Kraft, Nestle or Sara Lee could do for the market."
While sustainably farmed coffee at the moment only accounts for about 15 million of the nearly 3 billion pounds of coffee consumed worldwide, it is a niche that Ms. Vigilante expects to double next year.
Since 2000, about 140 coffee companies have started offering fair-trade blends through 10,000 outlets in the United States, according to a recent report by Oxfam, a private charity concerned with fighting poverty.
"Ultimately, the consumer will decide if Millstone is a niche product or not," Ms. Hyatt said. 
But, as Oxfam asked in a report, "Can everyone run to the same exit?"
The report, entitled "Mugged: Poverty in your Coffee Cup," concluded that niche markets were not enough to save the floundering industry and recommended radical action, like government financing to destroy five million sacks of low-quality coffee held in warehouses in coffee-growing countries. That would cost as much as $100 million, but could result in 20 percent higher market prices, the report said.
Others, meanwhile, would prefer solutions that do not resort to government intervention, like getting farmers to use financial hedging to reduce price volatility.
Peter A. Reiling, president and chief executive of TechnoServe, another nonprofit organization promoting socially responsible entrepreneurship in developing countries based in Norwalk, Conn., has commissioned a study from the McKinsey consultant group on how to cure the ills of the coffee market.
"It's an emotional issue and everyone seems to have a different solution," Mr. Reiling said. "I'd say there's no one silver bullet, but there are market solutions."

CORRECTION-DATE: December 1, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in World Business on Tuesday about the struggles of coffee growers misstated the annual sales for the Folger's brand of Procter & Gamble. They are $1 billion, not $13 billion. The article also misstated the name of a new premium brand from P.& G. that is sold under the industry's Fair Trade protocol, which means farmers receive a price that is more than double the current average for a pound of green coffee. It is Millstone Signature, not simply Millstone.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carlos Roberto picking coffee beans at the Fazenda da Lagoa farm in the central state of Minas Gerais in Brazil. A decrease in demand for coffee could threaten the jobs of workers like Mr. Roberto. (Photo by Associated Press) Map of Brazil highlighting Patrocinio: A tasting in Patrocinio brought brokers from around the world.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE FARMING (90%); COFFEE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); COFFEE & TEA (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); COFFEE MARKETS (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); BEVERAGE PRICES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (69%); RETAILERS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (65%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (60%) COFFEE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

PERSON: SMITH, TONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (94%); MEXICO (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); AFRICA (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); BULGARIA (73%); HONDURAS (69%) LATIN AMERICA; 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003 



593 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: Tyco Prosecutors Want to Show Tape Of Executive's Home 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Prosecutors in the fraud trial of L. Dennis Kozlowski want to show a video of the New York apartment where, they say, Mr. Kozlowski, Tyco International's former chief executive, spent more than $30 million of company money on art and other furnishings, including a $15,000 umbrella stand. 
 An assistant district attorney, Consuelo Fernandez, asked Judge Michael Obus of State Supreme Court in Manhattan for permission to show the videotape, arguing that it would give jurors a chance to see how Mr. Kozlowski spent Tyco's money on himself. The apartment, at 950 Fifth Avenue, was owned by Tyco and was Mr. Kozlowski's residence. It was decorated with expensive artwork, including a Monet, and a $6,000 shower curtain. 
 "This apartment was really for the personal use of the defendant," Mr. Fernandez said.
Mr. Kozlowski and the former chief financial officer, Mark H. Swartz, are accused of raiding company loan programs to steal $170 million. Prosecutors say the two men used the money to buy homes, yachts, jewelry and artwork. They are also accused of making $430 million from sales of Tyco stock after they manipulated the price by misleading investors.
Justice Obus did not decide whether to admit the videotape as evidence, after Mr. Kozlowski's lawyers objected, contending prosecutors wanted to inflame the jury by stirring up "economic prejudice" against the defendant.
"The crime here is that money was stolen, not what they did with the money," a defense lawyer, Austin Campriello, said. He said the apartment was always owned by Tyco and used for business purposes to show that the company was a "real player" as Mr. Kozlowski negotiated mergers and acquisitions.
Mr. Kozlowski had the right "to spend Tyco's money for Tyco, to furnish it as he saw fit," Mr. Campriello said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 29, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Tuesday about a request by prosecutors in the fraud trial of L. Dennis Kozlowski, the former chief executive of Tyco International, to show jurors a video of his New York apartment referred incorrectly to the assistant district attorney who made the request. The attorney, Consuelo Fernandez, is a woman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); JURY TRIALS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); LAWYERS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); MERGERS (71%); ETHICS (68%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (66%) ETHICS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING 

COMPANY: TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (90%)

ORGANIZATION: TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD 

TICKER: TYC (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (90%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (90%) SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT; 

PERSON: KOZLOWSKI, L DENNIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003 



594 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL: ON THE GROUND -- In Calgary; 
A Bit of the Wild West (but Farther North) and a Skyline to Boot

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON 

 BODY:
Calgary, Canada's energy and beef capital, is one of the country's fastest-growing cities -- with traffic congestion to match. But the benefits of surging oil and gas prices have been diluted by a slump in the cattle industry since the United States and other countries banned the import of Canadian beef in May after the discovery of a case of mad cow disease on a ranch in northern Alberta. An economic development commission, set up late last year, is looking for ways to diversify Calgary's economy by attracting more investment in areas like health care, tourism and filmmaking.

AIRPORT
 Several carriers from the United States, most recently Alaska Airlines, serve Calgary International Airport, 11 miles north of downtown. 
 A new concourse opened in late 2002, serving mainly WestJet, a fast-growing, low-cost carrier based in Calgary that has become Air Canada's main domestic rival. The airport is run by a nonprofit organization with a majorityof directors nominated by the local Chamber of Commerce. A private developer is building a 27-hole golf course on the airport property and plans to open it next year. 

HOTELS
Craig Wright, chief economist of the Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto, usually stays at the FAIRMONT PALLISER (403-262-1234, $185 and up), and also uses the hotel for client presentations. Whether it means providing a podium or twin PowerPoint screens, "they'll do whatever it takes to make it work," said Mr. Wright, who also likes the hotel's downtown location. Don Mockford, director of the Canadian Recreational Vehicle Association in Toronto, likes the HYATT REGENCY (403-717-1234, $145 and up), where the group held its annual convention earlier this month. 
When WestJet brings visitors to Calgary, it usually books them into the HILTON GARDEN INN (403-717-1999, $99), close to the airport. Siobhan Vinish, WestJet's communications director, says the hotel is inexpensive, well maintained and has a business center and a restaurant with "simple but good food." Another downtown budget choice is the SANDMAN (403-237-8626, $85), which has a business center, fitness facilities and a pleasant restaurant. 

RESTAURANTS
"If it's Calgary, it's got to be steak," said Pierre Alvarez, president of the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers, echoing a strong local sentiment.
Mr. Alvarez's top pick for thick Alberta steaks, garlic bread and onion rings is CAESAR'S (403-264-1222, $130 for two, with wine and tip). For lighter fare, he heads for CATCH (403-206-0000, $105) and often orders the seafood clubhouse sandwich, piled high with lobster and prawns. 
The RIVER CAFE (403-261-7670, $125), on an island on the Bow River with a view of the downtown skyline, specializes in regional Canadian dishes, including buffalo, wild boar and Arctic char. 
Steven Paget, an analyst at FirstEnergy Capital, says that his company often celebrates its deals at BRAVA BISTRO (403-228-1854, $180), a short cab ride south of downtown. He likes its bacon-wrapped beef tenderloin, but reserves his highest praise for the gingerbread cake. Ms. Vinish at WestJet likes the lively bar and the summer patio at MURRIETA'S WESTCOAST GRILL (403-269-7707, $100).

ENTERTAINMENT
Anyone scheduling a business trip to Calgary would be well advised to book appointments to allow at least part of a weekend for an excursion to the spectacular Canadian Rockies. The closest resorts are Banff, about a 90-minute drive from Calgary, and Lake Louise. 
The CALGARY STAMPEDE (403-261-0101), famous for chuck wagon races and pancake breakfasts, takes place in early July. And just across the Bow River from downtown, KENSINGTON VILLAGE is a lively shopping district with an array of restaurants, pubs and coffeehouses. The CALGARY PHILHARMONIC ORCHESTRA (403-571-0270) has recently expanded its program after a four-month fund-raising hiatus. The VERTIGO MYSTERY THEATER (403-221-3708), under the Calgary Tower, is one of several new theaters.

BUSINESS LORE
These days, members of Calgary's august - and mostly male -- Ranchmen's Club are more likely to be oilmen and bankers than cattlemen. Still, in a show of support for Alberta's beleaguered cattle industry, the 112-year-old club organized a Beefeater Night this fall, featuring beef with every course of a six-course dinner - from double-beef consomme and canapes of air-dried beef with asparagus, through to apple suet with rhubarb pie. The event was such a success that whether or not the United States lifts its ban on Canadian cattle, the beef night is set to join the club's lobster and oyster feasts as an annual event. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: It wouldn't be Calgary without all the action at the Stampede. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEEF (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (78%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); SEAFOOD (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); TRANSPORT TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); GOLF (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (71%); MEDICAL TOURISM (70%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: WESTJET AIRLINES LTD (84%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (84%); AIR CANADA (57%)

TICKER: WJA.A (TSX) (84%); WJA (TSX) (84%); RY (TSX) (84%); RY (SWX) (84%); RY (NYSE) (84%); AC.A (TSX) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%)

PERSON: SIMON, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%) ALBERTA, CANADA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%) CALGARY (ALBERTA); CANADA

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003 



595 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Investors' Anticipation Lifts Shares Out of the Doldrums

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Stocks rallied yesterday, shaking off two weeks of declines, as investors scooped up shares in anticipation of strong economic data later in the week.
 The market also got a lift as the dollar rose against major currencies, recovering from last week's record low against the euro and a three-year trough against the yen. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 119.26 points, or 1.24 percent, to 9,747.79. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 16.8 points, or 1.62 percent, to 1,052.08. The Nasdaq composite index was up 53.26 points, or 2.81 percent, at 1,947.14. 
It was the Nasdaq's biggest one-day percentage gain since July 7, erasing its losses from the previous week. The Standard & Poor's 500 had its biggest daily percentage gain since October began and also erased its losses from last week. The Dow, which had its biggest daily percentage gain for the month, just missed erasing last week's losses. It now stands just below its closing levels from the week before last.
Today will bring closely watched reports on third-quarter revised gross domestic product, retail sales and consumer confidence. Tomorrow, durable goods orders and jobless claims are due.
"We have a heavy week of economic news and the economic news over the past four or five months has been somewhat bullish," said David Memmott, head of listed block trading, Morgan Stanley. "At least 90 percent of the numbers have been very positive, so it doesn't seem like the market is anticipating anything less than that."
Against the euro, the dollar settled at $1.1770, from $1.1915 on Friday, while against the yen, it rose to 109.43 yen, up from 108.80. The dollar's rise eased fears that foreign investors, faced with the declining value of their dollar-denominated assets when converted back into their currencies, would dump United States equities and Treasury bonds.
Yesterday, Treasury bond prices fell as the rally in the stock market diminished the allure of debt as a haven and prompted investors to cash in on a week of gains. By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note lost 18/32 to 100 6/32. The note's yield, whichmoves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.23 percent from 4.16 percent on Friday.
In other markets, crude oil had its biggest decline in three months. In New York, crude oil for January delivery fell $1.87, or 5.9 percent, to settle at $29.74 a barrel. 
Among gainers, Boston Scientific rose 5.3 percent, or $1.79, to $35.70, after a judge's ruling that will allow it to sell its drug-coated stent in the United States.
The Dow's biggest percentage gainer was Intel, up $1.14, or 3.53 percent, at $33.46. Earlier in the day, Intel said it had built test chips using next-generation 65-nanometer technology and expected to be the first to produce them -- in 2005. Intel also was among the Nasdaq's most-active issues.
Time Warner rose 32 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $15.87, after the news that it will sell its music business to a group led by the former chairman of Seagram, Edgar Bronfman Jr., for $2.6 billion, which would help Time Warner cut its debt.
UniSource Energy shot up $5.09, or 26.2 percent, to $24.49 after it accepted an $853 million takeover bid from an investor group backed by the private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and others.
AT&T fell 20 cents, or 1 percent, at $19.80. Starting yesterday, consumers gained the right to switch their home phone number to their cellular phone or keep their cellular phone number when switching cellphone service carriers. The change could hurt phone companies as people can more easily switch between carriers.
Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.768	99.492	High Rate	0.930	1.010	Investment Rate	0.946	1.032	Low Rate	0.900	0.990	Median Rate	0.920	1.000	Total applied for	$45,256,192	$40,779,916	Accepted	$21,968,509	$21,867,186	Noncompetitive	$1,396,492	$992,345	

Both issues are dated Nov. 28. The three-month bills mature on Feb. 26, and the six-month bills on May 27.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CURRENCIES (91%); BONDS (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (87%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); EURO (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); DEBT NOTES (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (67%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (67%); PUBLIC DEBT (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); RETAIL SALES (51%); DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEMS (50%); JUDGES (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; GOVERNMENT BONDS 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (54%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%); BSX (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (50%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (50%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003 



596 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 94 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing The Americas: Chile: Economy Gains 3% In Quarter 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 Chile, which has an economy that is growing at twice the average rate in Latin America, said the expansion quickened in the third quarter as sales of copper, its top export, climbed on stronger demand from China. Gross domestic product grew 3 percent, the central bank said, compared with 2.7 percent in the second quarter and 3.5 percent in the first quarter. Growth is expected to quicken through next year because of higher production and sales of copper, and as trade accords with the United States and the European Union bolster demand for Chile's goods.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Chile's G.D.P. since the beginning of the year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); TRENDS (86%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (85%); EUROPEAN UNION (85%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHILE (96%); CHINA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%) CHILE

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003 



597 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Congressional Memo; 
Spending Discipline Proves Unfashionable This Year

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 24 

 BODY:
The Medicare bill about to clear Congress is the latest example of how budget discipline is being given short shrift at both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue, critics here and on Wall Street say.
 By official calculations, the tax cuts and increases in benefits enacted this year alone will increase the national debt by more than $750 billion over the next decade, and the actual amount could be much larger. 
 "In fiscal terms, there is no doubt in my mind that this has been the most irresponsible year ever," said Robert L. Bixby, executive director of the Concord Coalition, a bipartisan watchdog organization that favors restraining the budget deficit.
Ed McKelvey, an economist at Goldman Sachs, declared in the investment firm's newsletter last week that "the U.S. federal budget is out of control." 
The official estimates are that the Medicare bill will cost $400 billion over the next 10 years; the tax cuts approved in May, $300 billion in lower revenues; higher Medicare reimbursement rates for doctors adopted in February, $50 billion; and new veterans' benefits, $22 billion.
That comes to $772 billion. If the energy bill backed by the Bush administration becomes law, that would add another $23 billion in tax cuts, bringing the total to $795 billion.
Those figures are conservative. Many health experts expect drug prices to rise more than Congress anticipated in the Medicare legislation. And there will surely be fierce pressure on politicians to eliminate what is called the doughnut hole in the new prescription drug benefit: the lack of coverage for drug expenses each year that exceed $2,250 but are less than $5,850.
On the revenue side of the ledger, early expiration dates, called sunsets, were written into the tax bill this year to hold down the official 10-year cost. Tax breaks for married couples and bigger child tax credits are supposed to end after next year. Lower tax rates on dividends and capital gains are supposed to be terminated after 2008.
Few political analysts expect Congress to allow these measures to expire, and if they are extended, the lost revenue in the tax bill over 10 years could be as much as $800 billion, not $300 billion.
These calculations do not count what in budget terms is called discretionary spending, including the $87.5 billion the president proposed and Congress approved this fall to occupy and rebuild Afghanistan and Iraq.
At almost every stop as he travels around the country, President Bush emphasizes the need for "spending discipline." But he has supported the expensive legislation Congress has approved and has not threatened to veto any measure because of its cost.
"One can't expect Congress to lead the charge when it comes to fiscal restraint," said Robert D. Reischauer, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office and now president of the Urban Institute, a research center. "They will follow the president's lead. If the president is into tax cuts and spending increases, they are going to do him one better."
During the Clinton administration, the White House and Congress were constrained by what was called the pay-go law: a measure enacted under President George Bush in 1990 that required tax cuts or increases in benefits to be offset by equivalent tax increases or benefit reductions. But that law has been allowed to lapse under this president and the Republican-led Congress.
Already, the $374 billion budget deficit in the fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30, by far the largest dollar amount ever, is likely to rise to $525 billion in this fiscal year, the economists at Goldman Sachs estimate. 
If that is the case, the annual budget picture will have deteriorated by more than $650 billion during Mr. Bush's term as president, from a surplus of $127 billion in the 2001 fiscal year, his first year in office.
The president and his advisers attribute the turn for the worse mainly to the recession, the need for more domestic security in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks, and the conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq. But the tax cuts and benefit increases enacted this year were not primarily a response to those developments.
The Bush administration no longer advocates a balanced budget. But it forecasts that the deficit will begin to fall next year. Administration officials say the deficits now are not a serious problem.
Joshua Bolten, the president's budget director, told Congress that the current deficit was "manageable if we continue pro-growth economic policies and exercise serious spending discipline."
The administration's critics say the problem is not so much deficits today as those in the years to come.
The Medicare and tax cut laws have been backloaded, so they will be much more expensive down the road than they are this year. For instance, the full Medicare drug benefit will not be in effect until the 2007 fiscal year, three years from now.
The official cost estimates end in the 2013 fiscal year. But the best, though highly speculative, estimates are that the lower revenues from three years of Bush tax cuts in the following 10 fiscal years, 2014 through 2023, could total $3 trillion and that the prescription drug benefit under Medicare could cost the government as much as $1.5 trillion in those years.
On Sunday, Senator Don Nickles, Republican of Oklahoma, said in a speech on the Senate floor that the drug benefit was "not sustainable in its present form" and would "just accelerate the day" when the whole Medicare program collapsed.
At a breakfast with reporters on Monday morning, Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, was sharply critical of the Republicans' budget record, even though he preferred an even more generous prescription drug benefit than the Republicans produced.
"They have passed an irresponsible fiscal policy," Mr. Daschle said, "starting with tax cuts and now loaded with giveaways."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Arthur Lifson of the Cigna Corporation stopped Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, outside the Senate yesterday as the Medicare legislation came close to clearing Congress. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BUDGETS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); APPROVALS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); MILITARY BENEFITS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); DRUG PRICES (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%); VETERANS (52%); MARRIAGE (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; NATIONAL DEBT (US); MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); MEDICARE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (74%); TOMMY THOMPSON (50%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (77%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003 



598 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: In Their Own Words 

 BODY:
 In a debate yesterday in Des Moines, the Democratic presidential candidates all addressed the issue of prescription drug coverage for Medicare recipients. All the candidates except Senator Joseph I. Lieberman were present.

SENATOR JOHN KERRY -- "I believe what's going to happen is you're going to find seniors as angry with this as they were with the catastrophic health insurance when we passed it in the 1980's and then had to take it back. This represents a special-interest giveaway. And the headlines you saw in the newspapers the last days said, "Drug companies win." Now, if the drug companies win, who's losing? It's the seniors in America."

REPRESENTATIVE RICHARD A. GEPHARDT -- "Republicans have repeatedly tried to craft some vehicle that they could get through what they've been trying to get through for 50 years. When Social Security was founded, they wanted to privatize Social Security. George Bush is still trying to do that. When Medicare was founded, the Republican alternative to the bill was a privatization scheme for Medicare. So this is a Trojan horse. Now, I understand people will look at this and say, 'Well, something's better than nothing.' But when it really is a Trojan horse, you shouldn't go for it."

HOWARD DEAN -- "This bill doesn't make any sense. It's a $400 billion charge to our grandchildren's credit card so that President Bush can be re-elected. If this was such a terrific bill, why do you suppose the president put the enactment date in 2006? People aren't going to get any help at all until 2006. This is an election year gimmick, charged to the taxpayers."

SENATOR JOHN EDWARDS -- "I think that this is in fact a continuation of this administration's auctioning of the government. It's like an auction on eBay, except the only people that get to bid are corporate lobbyists. The energy bill was that. This bill does the same thing. We have $12 billion going to H.M.O.'s on the theory that allows them to compete. I thought the whole reason we were sending people to H.M.O.'s was to create competition."

REPRESENTATIVE DENNIS J. KUCINICH -- "This bill actually reduces drug coverage for poor seniors. In addition to that, it prevents drug prices from being lowered. And it also frustrates any attempt at reimportation. Now . . . people in my district, seniors, are actually splitting their pills to make their prescription drugs last. That's how serious an economic issue this is. But instead of addressing it directly by trying to keep Medicare intact, what this administration has done is they, by disallowing any kind of an element that would prevent drug prices from being lowered -- they've knocked out cost containment, Tom, which means that the drug companies can charge the government whatever they want."

GEN. WESLEY K. CLARK -- "I understand those senators who want to deliver drug benefits, but these drug benefits are marginal. Tom, I was in New Hampshire the other day, and I met a woman in the shoe store there who is paying $20,000 a year for her lung medication. She'd like to go to Canada and get it cheaper. She can't. And, under this bill, do you think an H.M.O. is going to take her and insure her and pay that $20,000?"

CAROL MOSELEY BRAUN -- "This bill is not only a Trojan horse, it's a turkey stuffed with goodies for the pharmaceutical and the insurance industries, and a poison pill for seniors. It will give us the end of Medicare as we know it."

THE REV. AL SHARPTON -- "First of all, the fact that this bill is $400 billion and won't solve anything, makes it a waste. . . . This $400 billion would not help those who would need it the most. It certainly does not put a ceiling on the cost that pharmaceutical companies and others can give us."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); DRUG PRICES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (71%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (61%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (60%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; DEBATING 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); JOE LIEBERMAN (73%); AL SHARPTON (59%); DENNIS KUCINICH (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) SHARPTON, AL (REV); KERRY, JOHN (SEN); GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REP); DEAN, HOWARD (DR); EDWARDS, JOHN (SEN); KUCINICH, DENNIS J (REP); CLARK, WESLEY K (GEN) (RET); MOSELEY BRAUN, CAROL 

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (88%) IOWA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%) IOWA

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003 



599 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Refuting The Cynics 

BYLINE:  By DAVID BROOKS; E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The Economist magazine recently observed that in the 40 years following World War II, "America and Europe seemed to be growing more like one another in almost every way that matters." Demographically, economically and politically, the United States and Europe seemed to be converging.
 Then, around the middle of the 1980's, the U.S. and Europe started to diverge. The American work ethic shifted, so that the average American now works 350 hours a year -- 9 or 10 weeks -- longer than the average European. 
 American fertility rates bottomed out around 1985, and began rising. Native-born American women now have almost two children on average, while the European rate is 1.4 children per woman and falling. 
Economically, the comparisons are trickier, but here too there is divergence. The gap between American and European G.D.P. per capita has widened over the past two decades, and at the moment American productivity rates are surging roughly 5 percent a year. 
The biggest difference is that over the past two decades the United States has absorbed roughly 20 million immigrants. This influx of people has led, in the short term, to widening inequality and higher welfare costs as the immigrants are absorbed, but it also means that the U.S. will be, through our lifetimes, young, ambitious and energetic.
Working off U.N. and U.S. census data, Bill Frey, the indispensable University of Michigan demographer, projects that in the year 2050 the median age in the United States will be 35. The median age in Europe will be 52. The implications of that are enormous.
As we settle down to the Thanksgiving table in a few days, we might remind ourselves that whatever other problems grip our country, lack of vitality is not one of them. In fact, we may look back on the period beginning in the middle of the 1980's as the Great Rejuvenation. American life has improved in almost every measurable way, and far from regressing toward the mean, the U.S. has become a more exceptional nation. 
The drop in crime rates over the past decade is nothing short of a miracle. Teenage pregnancy and abortion rates rose in the early 1970's and 1980's, then leveled off and now are dropping. Child poverty rates have declined since the welfare reform of the mid-1990's. The black poverty rate dropped "to the lowest rate ever recorded," according to a 2002 study by the National Urban League. The barren South Bronx neighborhood that Ronald Reagan visited in 1980 to illustrate urban blight is now a thriving area, with, inevitably, a Starbucks. 
The U.S. economy has enjoyed two long booms in the past two decades, interrupted by two shallow recessions, and perhaps now we're at the start of a third boom. More nations have become democratic in the past two decades than at any other time in history.
In his forthcoming book, "The Progress Paradox," Gregg Easterbrook piles on the happy tidings. The air is cleaner. The water is cleaner and we are using less of it. Our homes have doubled in size in a generation and home ownership rates are at an all-time high. There are now fewer highway deaths in the U.S. than in 1970, even though the number of miles driven has shot up by 75 percent.
Obviously, huge problems remain. But the overwhelming weight of the evidence suggests that despite all the ugliness of our politics, this is a well-governed nation. The trends of the past two decades stand as howling refutation of those antipolitical cynics who have become more scathing about government even as the results of our policies have been impressive. The evidence also rebukes those gloomy liberals who for two decades have been predicting that the center-right governance of Reagan, Bush, Clinton and Bush would lead to disaster. 
Most of all, the evidence rebuts the cultural critics of the right and left, who have bemoaned the rise of narcissism, cultural relativism, greed, and on and on. And while many of these critics have made valid points, if you relied on their work you would have a horribly distorted view of the state of this nation. 
In his book, Easterbrook seeks to explain why we feel gloomy even as things go well. I would only add that the beginning of political wisdom in times like these is realistic optimism, and the proper emotion at this season is, as always, gratitude. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); POVERTY RATES (75%); WOMEN (75%); CHILD POVERTY (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); ETHICS (71%); CENSUS (70%); ADOLESCENTS (70%); FERTILITY RATES (70%); CRIME RATES (70%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (70%); ABORTION (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (74%) BROOKS, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003 



600 of 732 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: The Uncivil War 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
"One of the problems with media coverage of this administration," wrote Eric Alterman in The Nation, "is that it requires bad manners."
 He's right. There's no nice way to explain how the administration uses cooked numbers to sell its tax cuts, or how its arrogance and gullibility led to the current mess in Iraq. 
 So it was predictable that the administration and its allies, no longer very successful at claiming that questioning the president is unpatriotic, would use appeals to good manners as a way to silence critics. Not, mind you, that Emily Post has taken over the Republican Party: the same people who denounce liberal incivility continue to impugn the motives of their opponents. 
Smart conservatives admit that their own side was a bit rude during the Clinton years. But now, they say, they've learned better, and it's those angry liberals who have a problem. The reality, however, is that they can only convince themselves that liberals have an anger problem by applying a double standard.
When Ann Coulter expresses regret that Timothy McVeigh didn't blow up The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal laughs it off as "tongue-in-cheek agitprop." But when Al Franken writes about lies and lying liars in a funny, but carefully researched book, he's degrading the discourse. 
More important, the Bush administration -- which likes to portray itself as the inheritor of Reagan-like optimism -- actually has a Nixonian habit of demonizing its opponents.
For example, here's President Bush on critics of his economic policies: "Some say, well, maybe the recession should have been deeper. It bothers me when people say that." Because he used the word "some," he didn't literally lie -- no doubt a careful search will find someone, somewhere, who says the recession should have been deeper. But he clearly intended to suggest that those who disagree with his policies don't care about helping the economy.
And that's nothing compared with the tactics now being used on foreign policy.
The campaign against "political hate speech" originates with the Republican National Committee. But last week the committee unveiled its first ad for the 2004 campaign, and it's as hateful as they come. "Some are now attacking the president for attacking the terrorists," it declares.
Again, there's that weasel word "some." No doubt someone doesn't believe that we should attack terrorists. But the serious criticism of the president, as the committee knows very well, is the reverse: that after an initial victory in Afghanistan he shifted his attention -- and crucial resources -- from fighting terrorism to other projects.
What the critics say is that this loss of focus seriously damaged the campaign against terrorism. Strategic assets in limited supply, like Special Forces soldiers and Predator drone aircraft, were shifted from Afghanistan to Iraq, while intelligence resources, including translators, were shifted from the pursuit of Al Qaeda to the coming invasion. This probably allowed Qaeda members, including Osama bin Laden, to get away, and definitely helped the Taliban stage its ominous comeback. And the Iraq war has, by all accounts, done wonders for Qaeda recruiting. Is saying all this attacking the president for attacking the terrorists?
The ad was clearly intended to insinuate once again -- without saying anything falsifiable -- that there was a link between Iraq and 9/11. (Now that the Iraq venture has turned sour, this claim is suddenly making the rounds again, even though no significant new evidence has surfaced.) But it was also designed to imply that critics are soft on terror. 
All this fuss about civility, then, is an attempt to bully critics into unilaterally disarming -- into being demure and respectful of the president, even while his campaign chairman declares that the 2004 election will be a choice "between victory in Iraq and insecurity in America."
And even aside from the double standard, how important is civility? I'm all for good manners, but this isn't a dinner party. The opposing sides in our national debate are far apart on fundamental issues, from fiscal and environmental policies to national security and civil liberties. It's the duty of pundits and politicians to make those differences clear, not to play them down for fear that someone will be offended. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TERRORISM (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICS (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); COUNTERTERRORISM (63%); FOREIGN POLICY (63%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%) ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; TAXATION 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL FRANKEN (54%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2003 

 
