

401 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Food Brands Compete to Stretch a Dollar

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
ANYONE who doubts that consumers are still worried about the Great Recession need only leaf through the May 18 issue of People magazine.
 Turn to Page 118, where an advertisement for Oscar Mayer Deli Fresh meats proclaims how they taste ''deli fresh. But without the deli counter price.''
 Three pages after that, an ad for Lean Cuisine frozen foods declares, ''We believe in food that's good for you and good for your wallet.'' 
 And five pages later, Chips Ahoy cookies and Capri Sun juice drinks team up for an ad centered on serving two snacks ''for about a dollar,'' a concept that gets its own coined word (''Why snackrifice?'') and Web site (whysnackrifice.com).
 Kraft and Nestle, which make those products, are among the growing ranks of marketers playing up the perceived value of packaged foods. They are seeking to capitalize on the opportunity presented by consumers' dining out less. 
 But shoppers eager to save money are trading down from full-price, brand-name fare to cheaper private labels and store brands. That means advertisers concerned about losing market share must make persuasive arguments about the value propositions of their wares.
 The list of value-mongers is to grow on Monday when Reckitt Benckiser begins a campaign for French's condiments, promoting larger packages to be sold at lower prices. For instance, a 20-ounce bottle of French's Classic Yellow mustard will cost less than a 14-ounce bottle.
 ''The consumer is telling you something: 'I want to see value. I want you to demonstrate value,' '' said Elliott Penner, president at the French's food division of Reckitt Benckiser in Parsippany, N.J.
 In research, shoppers confided that French's ''was always their first choice, but they wanted to be sure they were making the smart choice,'' he added, so the company decided to ''hit with a pretty hard-selling value message.''
 French's plans to spend more than $26 million on the campaign, Mr. Penner said, about a 40 percent increase from the spending last spring and summer. The ads wrap the value pitch around an upbeat theme, ''Happy starts here.''
 The goal was to deliver an optimistic message that would be ''an antithesis to what's going on right now,'' said Drummond Berman, creative director at the French's agency, Euro RSCG Worldwide in New York, part of Havas, yet ''remind people, subtly, that even in times like this you don't want to be cutting your little perks'' like name-brand mustard.
 Another packaged-foods giant, the Frito-Lay division of PepsiCo, is making a value play by adding 20 percent more product to selected bags of snacks like Cheetos, Fritos and Tostitos without increasing prices.
 The promotion is to last ''for the next few months,'' an announcer says in radio commercials that end with the words ''Frito-Lay, sponsoring smiles for 76 years'' -- that is, since 1933, a particularly depressed year during the Great Depression.
 The promotion is flagged on bags with banners that read: ''Hey! There's 20 percent more free fun to share in here.''
 A similarly whimsical tack is taken in a campaign for Del Monte canned vegetables and fruits, which suggests that shoppers can ''stretch'' their food dollars by depicting elongated ears of corn and pea pods. The campaign, by the Smith Brothers Agency in Pittsburgh, asserts that canned foods can offer better value than frozen or fresh.
 Although ''people are attuned to getting more for their money,'' said Bill Pearce, chief marketing officer at Del Monte Foods in San Francisco, ''value is not just cost; it's also taste, nutrition and quality.''
 The campaign -- the biggest for Del Monte canned goods in a decade -- is prompted partly by ''an increase in private-label sales as consumers react to the economy,'' Mr. Pearce said.
 But the validity of the message is meant ''to resonate more than just in a tough economic climate,'' he added.
 The reason, said Miles Smith, partner and business development director at Smith Brothers, can be found in the story about a neighborhood barber whose livelihood is threatened by the arrival of a chain offering $5 haircuts.
 The barber ''hires a marketing consultant,'' he added, ''who hangs a banner above the shop, 'We fix $5 haircuts.' ''
 The moral is ''don't go down that road of discounting yourself into being considered a commodity,'' Mr. Smith said. ''It's damaging to your brand to train consumers to expect a sale every day.'' 
 Perhaps the most ambitious value efforts come from Kraft Foods. In addition to the Oscar Mayer and ''Why snackrifice?'' campaigns, there are value ads for boxed dinners like Kraft Macaroni and Cheese and Velveeta Shells and Cheese, carrying the theme ''Save. Share. Smile''; Kool-Aid, carrying the theme ''More smiles per gallon''; and Kraft Singles cheese slices, which in ads by the New York office of Nitro, scheduled to begin on Monday, describe how a Singles cheeseburger can be made for less than a dollar.
 The point of the campaign, which includes a sponsorship deal with Minor League Baseball, is that ''the good things in life don't need to cost much,'' said Clayton Wai-Poi, senior brand manager for Kraft Singles in Northfield, Ill.
 The campaign is the fourth since February focused on the affordability of Kraft Singles, which confronts considerable competition from private-label cheese slices.
 The brand is ''tracking to expectations'' and ''holding share,'' Mr. Wai-Poi said. ''That's a good result in this climate.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A commercial for French's mustard. The condiment maker is promoting larger packages to be sold at lower prices.
 Del Monte is promoting its canned foods as a better value than frozen. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD MFG (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); PACKAGED GOODS (89%); BRANDING (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); PRIVATE LABELS (73%); DINING OUT TRENDS (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); FROZEN FOODS (72%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (70%)

COMPANY: EURO RSCG WORLDWIDE INC (61%); FRITO-LAY INC (57%); NESTLE SA (56%); RECKITT BENCKISER GROUP PLC (54%); PEPSICO INC (50%); HAVAS SA (50%)

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (56%); RB (LSE) (54%); PEP (NYSE) (50%); HAV (PAR) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (61%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (61%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (57%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (50%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (68%); NEW YORK, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009



402 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1049 words

PERSON: Venetia Phair 

HEADLINE: Venetia Phair Dies at 90; as a Girl, She Named Pluto

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
Frozen and lonely, Planet X circled the far reaches of the solar system awaiting discovery and a name. It got one thanks to an 11-year-old British girl named Venetia Burney, an enthusiast of the planets and classical myth. 
 On March 14, 1930, the day newspapers reported that the long-suspected ''trans-Neptunian body'' had been photographed for the first time, she proposed to her well-connected grandfather that it be named Pluto, after the Roman god of the underworld. 
 And so it was.
 Venetia Phair, as she became by marriage, died April 30 in her home in Banstead, in the county of Surrey, England. She was 90. The death was confirmed by her son, Patrick.
 Venetia, on the fateful day that Pluto popped into her head, was having breakfast with her mother and her grandfather, Falconer Madan, retired librarian of the Bodleian Library at Oxford. He had exciting news to tell. Scientists at the Lowell Observatory in Flagstaff, Ariz., had just photographed a planet lying beyond Neptune. Its existence had been postulated since the late 19th century, and astronomers working under Percival Lowell, the observatory's founder, had been chasing it photographically since 1906. Now theory had become fact.
 ''He wondered what it should be called,'' Mrs. Phair recalled in the documentary film, ''Naming Pluto,'' released last month. ''We all wondered, and then I said, 'Why not call it Pluto?' And the whole thing stemmed from that.''
 Mr. Madan passed the idea along to his friend Herbert Hall Turner, professor of astronomy at Oxford. Pluto, he suggested in a letter, was an excellent name for ''the big obscure new baby.'' 
 Mr. Turner, as it happened, was in London for a meeting of the Royal Astronomical Society, where word of the new planet had members buzzing, and proposals for a name flew fast and furious. ''I think PLUTO excellent!!'' he wrote to Mr. Madan on his return. ''We did not manage to think of anything so good at the RAS yesterday. The only at all meritorious suggestion was Kronos, but that won't do alongside Saturn.'' (Kronos is the Greek equivalent of Saturn.)
 Mr. Turner immediately sent a telegram to Flagstaff: ''Naming new planet, please consider PLUTO, suggested by small girl Venetia Burney for dark and gloomy planet.''
 Unbeknownst to Venetia, a spirited battle ensued, with suggestions flying thick and fast. Minerva looked like the front runner, until it was pointed out that the name already belonged to an asteroid. Other candidates included Zeus, Atlas and Persephone. The Austrian engineer and cosmologist Hans Horbiger proposed the inscrutable and unpronounceable Onehtn, meaning ''first trans-Neptune.'' 
 Capt. Charles E. Freeman, the superintendent of the Naval Observatory in Washington, regarded Pluto as a long shot. ''Pluto is the prototype of Satan in many minds, and drops out for that reason, perhaps,'' he said.
 In the end, scientists at the Lowell Observatory voted unanimously for Pluto, partly because its first two letters could be interpreted as an homage to Percival Lowell, and on May 24 the new planet received its official name. 
 Mr. Madan gave his granddaughter a five-pound note, and the family added yet another feather to its cap: in 1877, Mr. Madan's brother Henry, a housemaster at Eton, had successfully proposed that the two dwarf moons of Mars be named Phobos and Deimos, two attendants of the Roman war god, whose names mean fear and terror.
 ''Pluto is an excellent name, for two reasons,'' Neil deGrasse Tyson, the director of the Hayden Planetarium and author of ''The Pluto Files: The Rise and Fall of America's Favorite Planet,'' said in a telephone interview. ''First, it's a Roman god, as are the rest of the large objects in the solar system, so it conforms to the rules of the time, and second, Pluto is the god of the underworld, a distant place you don't want to go to. Who could not love the name?''
 Venetia Katherine Burney was born in Oxford, where her father, the Rev. Charles Fox Burney, was a professor of scriptural interpretation. He died when Venetia was 6, and she and her mother went to live with Mr. Madan. 
 Venetia developed an interest in astronomy after playing a game with other children in which lumps of clay, standing for the planets, were placed on a lawn in their positions relative to the sun.
 She attended Downe House, a boarding school in Berkshire, and, after studying mathematics at Newnham College, Cambridge, became a chartered accountant. She later taught economics and math at two girls' schools in southwest London. In 1947 she married Maxwell Phair, a classicist, who became housemaster and head of English at Epsom College. She is survived by her son, of Cheltenham.
 Mrs. Phair tended to play down her stroke of genius. She came up with Pluto, she said, simply because it was one of the few important Roman gods still available for planetary duty. ''Whether I thought about a dark, gloomy Hades, I'm not sure,'' she told the BBC in 2006.
 Regardless, Pluto was an instant success. Walt Disney used it for Mickey Mouse's dog, and it provided the name for Element 94 in the Periodic Table, plutonium, which was first identified in 1941. In 1987 the asteroid 6235 Burney was named in Mrs. Phair's honor, as was a dust-measuring instrument on board New Horizons, the NASA spacecraft that took off for Pluto in 2006.
 Mrs. Phair took it in stride when the International Astronomical Union decreed that Pluto was not a planet at all. It was a dwarf planet, and not even the largest one, a lump of rock and ice orbiting in a ring of icy debris known as the Kuiper Belt. 
 Some face was saved last year when the union announced the coining of the term ''plutoid'' to designate a dwarf planet beyond the orbit of Neptune. More vexing to Mrs. Phair was the persistent notion that she had taken the name from the Disney character. ''It has now been satisfactorily proven that the dog was named after the planet, rather than the other way around,'' she told the BBC. ''So, one is vindicated.''
 Alan M. MacRobert, a senior editor at Sky and Telescope, foresees sweeter vindication ahead. ''In the year 4,000 A.D., when Pluto is hollowed out and millions of people are living inside,'' he said, ''the name of Venetia Burney may be the only thing that Great Britain is remembered for.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Venetia Phair in 1930.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BBC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (90%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (89%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (89%); ASTROPHYSICS (78%); LIBRARIANS (77%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (68%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (66%); TALKS & MEETINGS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLAGSTAFF, AZ, USA (70%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) NEPTUNE (94%); PLUTO (94%); SATURN (92%); ARIZONA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%); ENGLAND (58%)

CATEGORY: Nature and Environment, Science and Technology

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009



403 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: For Many Teachers, a Famously Fertile Market Dries Up Overnight

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Larissa Patel dreamed of teaching English at a Brooklyn public school this fall, motivated by a desire to help low-income children. But instead, on Friday, Ms. Patel spent the day filling out applications for 30 jobs at private schools.
 Ms. Patel's abrupt change in plans was precipitated by a new citywide ban on hiring teachers from outside the school system. 
 ''Suddenly, overnight, I am rethinking my entire career,'' said Ms. Patel, 30, a student at St. John's University who left a job in the digital imaging industry to work as a substitute teacher and pursue an education degree. ''It's a very bleak point in time. It's forced me to sort of look in a new direction.''
 In an effort to cut costs and avoid teacher layoffs, the Department of Education on Wednesday ordered principals to fill vacancies with internal candidates only. As a result, aspiring teachers at education schools and members of programs like Teach for America -- a corps of recent college graduates -- and the city's Teaching Fellows -- which trains career professionals to become teachers -- are scrambling for jobs.
 Many are forwarding their resumes to charter schools and private schools; others are looking to the suburbs and across state lines. Some are reconsidering the teaching profession altogether. 
 ''This was a pretty big bomb that dropped,'' said Pam Ritchie, 43, a substitute teacher in Park Slope, Brooklyn, who had hoped the connections she developed would land her a permanent job in the fall. ''I'm devastated.''
 Ms. Ritchie was looking to leave behind the on-call lifestyle of a substitute teacher and finally have her own classroom with regular students and regular pay. ''I have to stick with this until I get a job,'' she said. ''This is what I want to do.''
 The Department of Education typically hires thousands of teachers for the start of school each September. In 2008, it hired 5,725 educators -- 1,792 from the Teach for America and the Teaching Fellows programs, and 3,933 who, by and large, came from schools of education.
 But this year, the department anticipates fewer openings and will not hire externally except in certain high-needs areas like speech therapy and bilingual special education. Instead, principals can fill spots only with internal candidates, including teachers from a reserve pool made up of those whose jobs have been eliminated and many who have earned unsatisfactory ratings. 
 Schools that opened in the past two years and are still expanding their ranks are also exempt from the hiring restrictions, as are charter schools.
 Vicki Bernstein, executive director of teacher recruitment and quality for the Department of Education, said the news came as a surprise to many prospective teachers who had considered New York City an attractive option because of its historically high demand for teachers. 
 Ms. Bernstein's office informed job seekers on Thursday that some hiring restrictions could be lifted by the end of the summer if there was a dearth of internal candidates in certain neighborhoods or subjects. 
 ''They should remain committed and flexible,'' Ms. Bernstein said, ''so when and if there are opportunities, they are poised to be considered.'' 
 It remains unclear how long the ban on outside hires will last. 
 Teachers from traditional pathways like education schools are likely to suffer the most under the new hiring restrictions. The city still plans to hire about half the usual number of educators from Teach for America and the Teaching Fellows program, but it has not made similar guarantees for other teachers. (Breaking with past practice, however, the city will not pay the salaries of Teach for America and Teaching Fellows educators if they do not find jobs by the fall.)
 Some teachers had already received informal offers from principals but now find themselves dusting off their resumes and backing out of housing arrangements.
 As news of the hiring restrictions trickled out, many education school students left frantic messages for principals asking for work. Others fired off anxious messages to e-mail lists and online discussion boards. 
 Aida Sanchez, a student at Teachers College at Columbia University who hopes to work with children in Harlem, Washington Heights or the Bronx, said that it was unfair to give an advantage to educators from nontraditional backgrounds like Teach for America. Ms. Sanchez is waiting to see how the city's school budgets look when they are released this month, but said she was considering getting certified to teach in New Jersey. In the meantime, she is pursuing certification in special education in the hope of being hired under the exception. 
 ''I am really eager to go in the teaching direction,'' she said. ''Now it's kind of like you really don't know where you're going to be.''
 Joshua P. Stager, 24, a high school teacher in Oregon who is looking for work in New York City because his wife is starting piano studies at Manhattan School of Music in the fall, said the hiring restrictions did not surprise him, given the state of the economy. For the past several months, he has made a morning ritual out of typing ''New York schools'' and ''budget'' into Google and waiting for the headlines. On Thursday, he said, ''I had a little freak-out moment.''
 ''I'm opening up to the possibility of not getting an education job,'' said Mr. Stager, adding that he and his wife had started limiting expenses as a precaution.
 On Thursday, Ms. Patel, the St. John's student who hopes to teach English, made a final pitch to principals at her four dream schools in Brooklyn. They said they did not have openings. Until she finds a permanent job, Ms. Patel plans to continue as a substitute.
 ''The stability in teaching was something that was I looking for,'' she said. ''That has been turned on its head.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Larissa Patel, 30, changed professions and hoped to teach in a Brooklyn public school. Now she must focus on private schools.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (95%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (65%); SPEECH THERAPY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009



404 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: Behind Falling Wages

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman (column, May 4) writes that the ''falling wage syndrome'' undermines economic growth. Hence, we need ''more stimulus, more decisive action on the banks, more job creation.'' Why not say it? We also need more unions. Falling wages stem in part from drastic union decline. 
 Under President Franklin D. Roosevelt, the Wagner Act protections of union rights allowed workers to restore their wages and dignity. Unions became the best antipoverty program, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. said. Yet workers who organize today can expect to be fired. Employers use Wagner Act election procedures to intimidate workers. They violate other labor protections with impunity.
 One hundred seventy-four historians have petitioned Congress to support the Employee Free Choice Act. To restore wages, we need to make it easier to organize and more costly for employers to deny workers their rights.
 Michael Honey Tacoma, Wash., May 8, 2009
 The writer is a professor of humanities at the University of Washington, Tacoma, and president of the Labor and Working-Class History Association.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WRITERS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); HISTORY (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PETITIONS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (55%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (85%) WASHINGTON, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009



405 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: SHAKY PAKISTAN SEEN AS TARGET OF QAEDA PLOTS

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI and ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As Taliban militants push deeper into Pakistan's settled areas, foreign operatives of Al Qaeda who had focused on plotting attacks against the West are seizing on the turmoil to sow chaos in Pakistan and strengthen the hand of the militant Islamist groups there, according to American and Pakistani intelligence officials. 
 One indication came April 19, when a truck parked inside a Qaeda compound in South Waziristan, in Pakistan's tribal areas, erupted in a fireball when it was struck by a C.I.A. missile. American intelligence officials say that the truck had been loaded with high explosives, apparently to be used as a bomb, and that while its ultimate target remains unclear, the bomb would have been more devastating than the suicide bombing that killed more than 50 people at the Marriott Hotel in Islamabad in September. 
 Al Qaeda's leaders -- a predominantly Arab group of Egyptians, Saudis and Yemenis, as well as other nationalities like Uzbeks -- for years have nurtured ties to Pakistani militant groups like the Taliban operating in the mountains of Pakistan. The foreign operatives have historically set their sights on targets loftier than those selected by the local militant groups, aiming for spectacular attacks against the West, but they may see new opportunity in the recent violence. 
 Intelligence officials say the Taliban advances in Swat and Buner, which are closer to Islamabad than to the tribal areas, have already helped Al Qaeda in its recruiting efforts. The officials say the group's recruiting campaign is currently aimed at young fighters across the Middle East, North Africa and Central Asia who are less inclined to plan and carry out far-reaching global attacks and who have focused their energies on more immediate targets.
 ''They smell blood, and they are intoxicated by the idea of a jihadist takeover in Pakistan,'' said Bruce O. Riedel, a former analyst for the C.I.A. who recently led the Obama administration's policy review of Pakistan and Afghanistan. 
 It remains unlikely that Islamic militants could seize power in Pakistan, given the strength of Pakistan's military, according to American intelligence analysts. But a senior American intelligence official expressed concern that recent successes by the Taliban in extending territorial gains could foreshadow the creation of ''mini-Afghanistans'' around Pakistan that would allow militants even more freedom to plot attacks. 
 American government officials and terrorism experts said that Al Qaeda's increasing focus on a local strategy was partly born from necessity, as the C.I.A.'s intensifying airstrikes have reduced the group's ability to hit targets in the West. The United States has conducted 16 drone strikes so far this year, according to American officials, compared with 36 strikes in all of 2008. 
 According to a Pakistani intelligence assessment provided to The New York Times in February, Al Qaeda has adapted to the deaths of its leaders by shifting ''to conduct decentralized operations under small but well-organized regional groups'' within Pakistan and Afghanistan. At the same time, the group has intensified its recruiting, to replace its airstrike casualties.
 One of Al Qaeda's main goals in Pakistan, the assessment said, was to ''stage major terrorist attacks to create a feeling of insecurity, embarrass the government and retard economic development and political progress.'' 
 The Qaeda operatives are foreigners inside Pakistan, and experts say that the group's leaders, like Osama bin Laden and his deputy, Ayman al-Zawahri, appear to be wary of claiming credit for the violence in the country, possibly creating popular backlash against the group. 
 ''They are trying to take an Arab face off this,'' said Bruce Hoffman, a terrorism expert at Georgetown University. 
 ''If you look at Al Qaeda as a brand, they know when to broadcast the brand, as the group has done in North Africa,'' Mr. Hoffman said. ''And they know when to cloak the brand, as it has done in Pakistan.'' 
 As a result, it is difficult for American officials to assess exactly which recent attacks in Pakistan are the work of Qaeda operatives. But intelligence officials say they believe that the Marriott Hotel bombing was partly planned by Usama al-Kini, a Kenyan Qaeda operative who was killed in Pakistan by a C.I.A. drone on New Year's Day. 
 According to Mr. Hoffman, Al Qaeda may be trying to achieve a separate goal: getting the C.I.A. to call off its campaign of airstrikes in the tribal areas. A wave of terrorist violence could foment so much popular discontent with the government of President Asif Ali Zardari, he said, that Pakistan might then try to pressure the Obama administration to scale back its drone campaign.
 For now, however, Obama administration officials say they believe that the covert airstrikes are the best tool at their disposal to strike at Al Qaeda inside Pakistan, which remains the group's most important haven, but where large numbers of American combat forces would never be welcome. 
 The April 19 strike that hit what appeared to have been a truck bomb in a compound used by Al Qaeda set off an enormous secondary explosion, intelligence officials say. A second, empty truck destroyed in the same attack may also have been there to be outfitted with explosives, they say.
 In another significant attack, on April 29, missiles fired from a C.I.A. Predator killed Abu Sulayman al-Jazairi, an Algerian Qaeda planner who American intelligence officials say they believe helped train operatives for attacks in Europe and the United States. 
 Still, officials caution that Al Qaeda has not abandoned its goal of ''spectacular'' attacks in the United States and Europe. According to one American counterterrorism official, the group continues to plan attacks outside its sanctuary in the tribal areas, aiming at targets in the West and elsewhere in Pakistan.
 ''They are opportunistic to the extent they perceive vulnerabilities with the uncertain nature of Pakistani politics and the security situation in Swat and Buner,'' said the American counterterrorism official, who like other officials interviewed for this article was not authorized to speak publicly on intelligence issues. ''They're trying to exploit it.''
 In meetings this past week in Washington, American and Pakistani officials discussed the possibility of limited joint operations with American Predator and Reaper drones. 
 Under one proposal, the United States would retain control over the firing of missiles, but it would share with the Pakistani security forces some sophisticated imagery and communications intercepts that could be relayed to Pakistani combat forces on the ground.
 C.I.A. officials for months have resisted requests by Mr. Zardari to share the drone technology. In a television interview broadcast Sunday, the Pakistani leader said he would keep pressing to get his own Predator fleet.
 ''I've been asking for them, but I haven't got a positive answer as yet,'' Mr. Zardari said on NBC's ''Meet the Press.''
 ''But I'm not giving up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Supporters of a Pakistani religious group burned an effigy of President Obama at a rally on Sunday in Lahore, Pakistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY K. M. CHAUDARY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); TERRORISM (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); EXPLOSIVES (70%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); EGYPT (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009



406 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: New Search Tool Aims at Answering Tough Queries, but Not at Taking On Google

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

 BODY:
Every new online search service must face the inevitable question: ''Is it better than Google?''
 WolframAlpha, a powerful new service that can answer a broad range of queries, has become one of the most anticipated Web products of the year. But its creator, Stephen Wolfram, wants to make something clear: Despite the online chatter comparing it to Google, his service is not intended to dethrone the king of search engines.
 ''I am not keen on the hype,'' said Mr. Wolfram, a well-known scientist and entrepreneur and the founder of Wolfram Research, a company in Champaign, Ill., that has been quietly developing WolframAlpha. 
 Mr. Wolfram's service does not search through Web pages, and it will not help with movie times or camera shopping. Instead it computes the answers to queries using enormous collections of data the company has amassed. It can quickly spit out facts like the average body mass index of a 40-year-old male, whether the Eiffel Tower is taller than Seattle's Space Needle, and whether it is high tide in Miami right now. 
 WolframAlpha, which is expected to be available to the public at wolframalpha.com in the next week, is not a finished product. It is an early working version of a project that has been years in the making and will continue to evolve over years, if not decades. As such, there is much it cannot answer now. 
 But even as he dismisses the Google comparisons, Mr. Wolfram, a former child prodigy who published his first research paper on particle physics at age 15 and is best known for creating the math-formula software Mathematica, is happy to add fuel to the simmering expectations surrounding his service.
 ''I think WolframAlpha has the potential to be quite important,'' he said.
 The goal of creating a computer system that can answer questions has been a tantalizing but elusive pursuit for many computer scientists for more than four decades. Some veterans of the field say Mr. Wolfram may have come as close as anyone yet. 
 ''In many ways, creating a system like this has been a holy grail of lots of folks for some time,'' said Nathan Myhrvold, a former chief technology officer of Microsoft and co-founder of Intellectual Ventures, an investment company that owns a portfolio of patents.
 ''It has wound up being considered something that is virtually impossible,'' Mr. Myhrvold said. WolframAlpha has shown ''that it wasn't impossible but really difficult,'' he added. ''It involved applying lots of different tricks.''
 Doug Lenat, an artificial intelligence expert whose company Cycorp has spent the last 15 years developing a system that brings human-like reasoning to some computer systems, said WolframAlpha can handle ''an astronomical number of questions,'' and could eventually turn into a favorite destination on the Web. 
 ''It may become a massive player alongside Google,'' Mr. Lenat said. 
 Traditional search engines like Google and Yahoo, by and large, excel at finding information that already exists online. If there are Web pages that include the words used in a query, the engines will find them and rank them in order of relevance. 
 WolframAlpha is different. For starters, it does not gather data from the Web. Instead, its ''knowledge base'' is made up of reams and reams of data -- ranging from the kinds of facts you would find in a World Almanac, to highly specialized data from physics and other sciences -- that some 100 employees at Wolfram Research have gathered, verified and organized over several years. 
 When a user types in a query, WolframAlpha tries to determine the relevant area of knowledge and find the answers, often by performing calculations on its data. If you type ''LDL 120,'' it will return a graph showing the distribution of cholesterol levels among the United States population, and display the percentage of people above and below that figure. If you type ''LDL 120 male 33,'' it will adjust the results to focus on that gender and age group. 
 In response to ''how far is the Moon from Earth,'' WolframAlpha will calculate the exact distance based on an algorithm that computes the ever-changing distance between the two bodies. The engine that computes answers is largely built on Mathematica.
 In its current state, there are many queries that WolframAlpha cannot answer, either because it does not understand the question or because it does not have the requisite data. For instance, it is stumped by queries like ''obesity rate,'' ''housing prices New York'' or ''unemployment San Francisco'' (but it will answer ''unemployment San Francisco County''). 
 ''It is going to be very good in some areas and incomplete in others,'' said Nova Spivack, the chief executive of Radar Networks, which is using artificial intelligence and other techniques to help people find Web content that is interesting and relevant to them. 
 WolframAlpha does not actually try to work out the real meaning of a query, as some artificial intelligence systems do, so there are some questions it will never be able to answer. But experts say its approach appears to be effective in many areas. 
 ''He's done a great job of marrying the acquisition of data with the mathematical algorithms,'' said David A. Ferrucci, an artificial intelligence researcher at I.B.M., who is leading a team developing a computer program that will compete with humans on ''Jeopardy.'' 
 If successful, WolframAlpha has the potential to become a large business opportunity. For now, Mr. Wolfram said he plans to offer advertising and other forms of sponsorship on the site, and perhaps offer premium versions of the service for researchers. And somewhat coyly, he said he has discussed potential partnerships with the ''obvious people,'' including search engine companies. 
 ''We are actively pursuing interesting relationships,'' he said. 
 Representatives for Google and Yahoo declined to discuss WolframAlpha. 
 Mr. Spivack and others said WolframAlpha may become a complement to traditional search engines, which themselves have begun to offer simple versions of the kinds of calculations and data manipulation at which WolframAlpha excels. 
 ''There is a huge space of possible questions that Google doesn't answer,'' Mr. Spivack said. ''I think WolframAlpha will go well beyond the academic world to cover business and industry, economics, health.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stephen Wolfram, some computer science veterans say, may have come closer to creating a question-answering computer system with his WolframAlpha service. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK FRIEDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEARCH ENGINES (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (77%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (75%); PHYSICS (70%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (69%); PATENTS (60%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (50%); PARTICLE PHYSICS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%); WOLFRAM RESEARCH INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (76%) WASHINGTON, USA (76%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009



407 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: A Green Building, for Those Without Much of the Green Stuff to Spare

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS. 
E-mail: susan.dominus@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The green movement has something of an image problem in that the sheen of luxury clings to so much of it, with Whole Foods, hybrid cars and organic silk sweaters pricing themselves out of the lives of most consumers. If you want to find a market that really hates energy inefficiency, try people who are short on money -- like low-income New Yorkers -- people who spend an absurdly high percentage of what money they do have on utilities, a crowd that has the least money to waste on waste. 
 That's why Christine Prince, 35, an unemployed single mother of three, doesn't mind that the lighting in her two-bedroom apartment in the Bronx is on the dim side. ''I don't need that really bright light,'' she said last week in her home in East Crotona, her 16-month-old son toddling nearby. She walked to her bathroom and flushed the toilet. ''See how the water doesn't come all the way to the top?'' she said with pride, pointing out a low-flow feature of the plumbing. ''It doesn't spray up all over the place.'' 
 Since March 10, Ms. Prince has been living in an apartment in the Intervale Green complex, on Intervale Avenue between Freeman Street and Louis Nine Boulevard, an infamous strip of South Bronx urban blight (it served as backdrop for some of the most gruesome scenes in the movie ''Fort Apache, the Bronx''). Ms. Prince talks about the new, green, low-income housing development to anyone who will listen, so much so that she is afraid people are going to tell her ''to shut up about it.'' The building, developed by the Women's Housing and Economic Development Corporation, or Whedco, a Bronx nonprofit group, opened to qualified low-income residents in February, and has filled about a third of its 128 apartments. And, yes, Ms. Prince does have bragging rights. Designed with a large, glass-windowed lobby, two green roofs and a sculpture-filled courtyard, the development, tasteful, sparkling and eco-friendly, could give many cookie-cutter luxury buildings a run for their money. 
 Two green roofs? A sculpture garden? What, no indoor pool? Given the current citywide crunch in affordable housing, given our assumptions about green goods as status symbols, it's worth wondering how the social and environmental benefits of a green building are weighed against the additional costs. Very carefully, says Nancy Biberman, Whedco's founder and president.
 ''This is a subject of intense debate,'' she acknowledged. But it's her hope, and belief, based on the oversight of the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority, that the investments in the building's costly, highly insulated windows will easily recuperate their value by reducing the cost of heating. And the costs for residents may end up lower as well. With Energy-Star appliances, lighting fixtures designed for compact fluorescent lighting and other amenities, Ms. Biberman says she expects residents' utility bills to be 30 percent less than they would otherwise be.
 Even the most skeptical could at least consider Intervale Green a worthwhile experiment -- the state authority provided some financing for the $38 million project and is making the building part of a program to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of green affordable housing. 
 Ms. Prince, who previously lived near Jerome Avenue in a mice- and roach-infested apartment paid for by the Department of Homeless Services, says that in her new home she can finally breathe easily. And she's not speaking figuratively. ''This time of year, I've usually been to the doctor three times for allergies,'' she says. ''But now'' -- she inhales deeply through her nose -- ''I can breathe in like that.'' A graying woman loading laundry down the hall immediately commented on how much better she felt since moving in; she said she usually suffered from asthma, but hasn't had so much as a twinge since she moved in a few months ago. 
 Ms. Biberman is the first to admit that green roofs, as far as she knows, have not yet been proved to reduce energy costs (they cool buildings and reduce storm water runoff), but she says that the roofs, like the generous landscape design, were something her organization deemed worthwhile. ''Green has to be something you see, not just what's behind the walls,'' she said. 
 The South Bronx was once known exclusively for its burned-down buildings, drug wars and piles of rubble. When historians look back at the current era in the borough, they'll still see intractable crime and poverty, but they'll also see, out of the nonprofit group Sustainable South Bronx, an early program to train unskilled workers in green careers, which may prove to be a model nationwide for stimulus-funded green job-training programs. They'll also see Intervale Green, which Ms. Biberman says is currently the largest affordable green housing development in the country.
 Both the Bronx and the green movement have image problems; the involvement of one with the other may prove crucial in permanently turning both around.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At Intervale Green in the Bronx, a green roof was chosen not only for its eco-friendly qualities but as a visual reminder of the building's mission.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREEN MARKET (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); GREEN BUILDING (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); LOBBYING (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); ENERGY RESEARCH (72%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); SCULPTURE (60%); SINGLE PARENTS (55%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE ENERGY RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009



408 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: China Far Outpaces U.S. in Building Cleaner Coal-Fired Plants

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: TIANJIN, China 

 BODY:
China's frenetic construction of coal-fired power plants has raised worries around the world about the effect on climate change. China now uses more coal than the United States, Europe and Japan combined, making it the world's largest emitter of gases that are warming the planet.
 But largely missing in the hand-wringing is this: China has emerged in the past two years as the world's leading builder of more efficient, less polluting coal power plants, mastering the technology and driving down the cost.
 While the United States is still debating whether to build a more efficient kind of coal-fired power plant that uses extremely hot steam, China has begun building such plants at a rate of one a month. 
 Construction has stalled in the United States on a new generation of low-pollution power plants that turn coal into a gas before burning it, although Energy Secretary Steven Chu said Thursday that the Obama administration might revive one power plant of this type. But China has already approved equipment purchases for just such a power plant, to be assembled soon in a muddy field here in Tianjin.
 ''The steps they've taken are probably as fast and as serious as anywhere in power-generation history,'' said Hal Harvey, president of ClimateWorks, a group in San Francisco that helps finance projects to limit global warming.
 Western countries continue to rely heavily on coal-fired power plants built decades ago with outdated, inefficient technology that burn a lot of coal and emit considerable amounts of carbon dioxide. China has begun requiring power companies to retire an older, more polluting power plant for each new one they build. 
 Cao Peixi, the president of the China Huaneng Group, the country's biggest state-owned electric utility and the majority partner in the joint venture building the Tianjin plant, said his company was committed to the project even though it would cost more than conventional plants.
 ''We shouldn't look at this project from a purely financial perspective,'' he said. ''It represents the future.''
 Without doubt, China's coal-fired power sector still has many problems, and global warming gases from the country are expected to continue increasing. China's aim is to use the newest technologies to limit the rate of increase.
 Only half the country's coal-fired power plants have the emissions control equipment to remove sulfur compounds that cause acid rain, and even power plants with that technology do not always use it. China has not begun regulating some of the emissions that lead to heavy smog in big cities.
 Even among China's newly built plants, not all are modern. Only about 60 percent of the new plants are being built using newer technology that is highly efficient, but more expensive. 
 With greater efficiency, a power plant burns less coal and emits less carbon dioxide for each unit of electricity it generates. Experts say the least efficient plants in China today convert 27 to 36 percent of the energy in coal into electricity. The most efficient plants achieve an efficiency as high as 44 percent, meaning they can cut global warming emissions by more than a third compared with the weakest plants. 
 In the United States, the most efficient plants achieve around 40 percent efficiency, because they do not use the highest steam temperatures being adopted in China. The average efficiency of American coal-fired plants is still higher than the average efficiency of Chinese power plants, because China built so many inefficient plants over the past decade. But China is rapidly closing the gap by using some of the world's most advanced designs.
 After relying until recently on older technology, ''China has since become the major world market for advanced coal-fired power plants with high-specification emission control systems,'' the International Energy Agency said in a report on April 20.
 China's improvements are starting to have an effect on climate models. In its latest annual report last November, the I.E.A. cut its forecast of the annual increase in Chinese emissions of global warming gases, to 3 percent from 3.2 percent, in response to technological gains, particularly in the coal sector, even as the agency raised slightly its forecast for Chinese economic growth. ''It's definitely changing the baseline, and that's being taken into account,'' said Jonathan Sinton, a China specialist at the energy agency.
 But by continuing to rely heavily on coal, which supplies 80 percent of its electricity, China ensures that it will keep emitting a lot of carbon dioxide; even an efficient coal-fired power plant emits twice the carbon dioxide of a natural gas-fired plant. 
 Perhaps the biggest question now is how much further China can go beyond the recent steps. In particular, how fast will it move toward power plants that capture their emissions and store them underground or under the seafloor? 
 That technology could, in theory, create power plants that contribute virtually nothing to global warming. Many countries hope to develop such plants, though progress has been halting; Energy Secretary Chu has promised steps to speed up the technology in the United States. 
 China has just built a small, experimental facility near Beijing to remove carbon dioxide from power station emissions and use it to provide carbonation for beverages, and the government has a short list of possible locations for a large experiment to capture and store carbon dioxide. But so far, it has no plans to make this a national policy.
 China is making other efforts to reduce its global warming emissions. It has doubled its total wind energy capacity in each of the past four years, and is poised to pass the United States as soon as this year as the world's largest market for wind power equipment. China is building considerably more nuclear power plants than the rest of the world combined, and these do not emit carbon dioxide after they are built.
 But coal remains the cheapest energy source in China by a wide margin. China has the world's third-largest coal reserves, after the United States and Russia.
 ''No matter how much renewable or nuclear is in the mix, coal will remain the dominant power source,'' said Ashok Bhargava, a China energy expert at the Asian Development Bank in Manila.
 Another problem is that China has finally developed the ability to build high-technology power plants only at the end of a national binge of building lower-tech coal-fired plants. Construction is now slowing because of the economic slump.
 By adopting ''ultra-supercritical'' technology, which uses extremely hot steam to achieve the highest efficiency, and by building many identical power plants at the same time, China has cut costs dramatically through economies of scale. It now can cost a third less to build an ultra-supercritical power plant in China than to build a less efficient coal-fired plant in the United States.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A new-generation power plant that turns coal into a gas before burning it is planned for Tianjin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG KANTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
 The empty field in Tianjin, China, assigned for a new low-pollution, coal-fired power plant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG KANTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A3) CHART: POWER SURGE: China's electricity generating capacity has surged over the last four years because of a boom in the construction of new power plants. China has emerged in the past two years as the world's leading builder of so-called clean coal power plants. (Source: China National Bureau of Statistics, via CEIC data) (pg. A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL FIRED PLANTS (94%); POWER PLANTS (92%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (86%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); SMOG (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (69%); ACID RAIN (68%); APPROVALS (67%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (63%); JOINT VENTURES (62%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%)

COMPANY: CHINA HUANENG GROUP (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (53%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); STEVEN CHU (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009



409 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEBDENDA; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1619 words

HEADLINE: People and Accounts of Note

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
William J. Abbott, executive vice president for advertising sales at Crown Media Holdings, Studio City, Calif., was promoted to president and chief executive, effective on June 1. He succeeds Henry Schleiff, who is leaving before the end of his contract, taking an early buyout. In a statement from Crown Media, which operates the Hallmark Channel and Hallmark Movie Channel, the departure of Mr. Schleiff, who assumed his present duties in October 2006, was described as amicable.
 Jeff Bell joined DOmedia, Columbus, Ohio, as chairman. He succeeds Rich Langdale, a founder, who will ''continue to provide counsel and maintain an active presence in the company,'' DOmedia said in a statement, through Mr. Langdale's role in NCT Ventures, a primary investor in DOmedia. Mr. Bell had most recently been corporate vice president for global marketing at the interactive entertainment business division of the Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Wash., and before that was corporate vice president at DaimlerChrysler.
 Brandman University, Orange, Calif., formerly known as Chapman University College, selected the Los Angeles office of Dentsu America, part of Dentsu, as its agency of record. Spending has not been determined. 
 Paul Caiozzo joined the San Francisco office of the McCann Worldgroup, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as creative director. He had been associate creative director at the Boulder, Colo., office of Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners.
 Sam Ciaramitaro joined the roster of directors represented by Kaboom Productions, New York.
 Kristen Clark and Kandace Hudspeth, who work in the digital strategy department of MRM Worldwide, New York, were promoted. Ms. Clark, a strategic planner, becomes a senior strategic planner. Ms. Hudspeth, a senior strategic planner, was promoted to a new post, director for user experience planning. MRM Worldwide is part of the McCann Worldgroup unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 Cathy Collier and Zig, Toronto, are opening a connections planning agency named X. Ms. Collier will be president; she had been senior vice president and media director at Cossette Media, Toronto, part of the Cossette Communication Group.
 James Cooper joined Saatchi & Saatchi, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, as interactive creative director. He had most recently been a consultant and before that was a creative partner at Another Anomaly, New York.
 Sean Donahue joined the Herald Group, Washington, as senior vice president. He had been global head of environmental marketing and communications at Dell, Austin, Tex.
 The Family Violence Prevention Fund is introducing a ''Respect'' campaign honoring parental role models, timed to run during the period around Mother's Day and Father's Day. The campaign is being supported by the Macy's unit of Macy's Inc. Agencies working on the campaign include Current, Debbie Karnowsky Consulting and Traction.
 Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation, New York, is formally starting its advertising media program, which has been in development for several months. The program will be part of the media programs department at Glaad. The program is taking over many of the tasks that had been performed by the Commercial Closet Association, New York, which is closing; the board of the association is turning over many assets -- including its name and archive of advertising with gay and lesbian themes -- to Glaad. The advertising media program will be introduced at an event in New York next Monday, where two advertisers, Levi Strauss & Company and Wells Fargo, will be honored for their commitment to advertising that includes gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender consumers.
 Dennis Johnson joined the Association of Media Media, Mount Laurel, N.J., as director for operations. He assumes duties from MaryBeth Kurland, who had been executive director; she becomes chief relationship officer. 
 William Li, who had been the first -- and last -- publisher of Conde Nast Portfolio magazine, New York, joined Conde Nast Traveler as associate publisher. Both magazines are part of the Conde Nast Publications unit of Advance Publications.
 London 2012 -- the London Organizing Committee of the Olympic Games and Paralympic Games -- chose the McCann Worldgroup, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as its marketing services agency. The London office will lead the initiative. The McCann Worldgroup will become a domestic commercial partner of the committee, in the third-tier category of suppliers and providers, joining companies like the Boston Consulting Group. (The first domestic tier, partner, includes Adidas and British Airways, and the second domestic tier, supporter, includes Cadbury.) It is believed to be the first time that an advertising agency has become affiliated in that way with an Olympics.
 Nick Matarazzo is leaving his post as executive vice president and group publishing director for the Men's Enthusiast Network unit of Hachette Filipacchi Media U.S., New York. Alain Lemarchand, the new president and chief executive at Hachette Filipacchi Media U.S., said that Mr. Matarazzo's departure came by ''mutual agreement.'' Mr. Matarazzo, in a statement, said, ''It is time to close this chapter of my life.'' The company said there would be no successor named to Mr. Matarazzo, who worked there for 28 years. The company is considering selling some of the titles that compose the Men's Enthusiast Network like American Photo, Boating, Flying and Popular Photography. Hachette Filipacchi Media U.S. is part of the Hachette Filipacchi Medias division of Lagardere.
 Ty Montague, co-president and chief creative officer at JWT North America, part of the JWT division of WPP, was named chairman of the International Andy Awards. He takes over from Mark Waites, partner and creative director, Mother, London, who served in the post for the last two years.
 The One Club for Art and Copy, New York, presented its 34th annual One Show awards. Cummins Nitro, Brisbane, Australia, part of Nitro, won the Best of Show honors for a campaign for Queensland Tourism that offered participants in a contest a chance to win the ''best job in the world'': caretaker of an island overlooking the Great Barrier Reef. The contest drew numerous entries in the form of video clips as well as considerable publicity in news media around the world. Agencies from the United States won the most awards, called Pencils, at 39, followed by Australia, 6, and Malaysia, 5. Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group, won the first Green Pencil, given for environmentally conscious advertising. In the One Show Design Awards, agencies that are part of Dentsu won the most Pencils, six, followed by agencies that are part of the BBDO Worldwide unit of Omnicom, five, and the Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide unit of WPP, three.
 Redbean Society, New York, an agency specializing in marketing to Hispanic women, was opened by Jackie Bird, a longtime executive in the field of Hispanic marketing, and De La Cruz Delaware, a unit of De La Cruz & Asociados of Puerto Rico. Ms. Bird, who worked for the Grey Group unit of WPP, is chief executive. 
 David Rehr, who has served since December 2005 as president and chief executive of the National Association of Broadcasters, Washington, resigned unexpectedly. In the meantime, Janet McGregor, chief operating and financial officer of the association, will work with Mr. Rehr and assume his day-to-day duties as a successor is sought.
 Relix magazine, relix.com and jambands.com, New York, were acquired from Zenbu Media by a new company, the Relix Media Group. Financial terms were not disclosed. Relix magazine, which had recently been placed on hiatus by Zenbu, is to resume publishing with a June issue scheduled to come out on May 19. Peter Shapiro, one of the investors in Relix Media, will become publisher of the magazine; other executives at Relix Media previously worked for Relix magazine.
 John Rossant, executive chairman at Publicis Live, Geneva, the events management division of the Publicis Groupe, will also become the executive chairman of ECA2, Paris, which specializes in large-scale multimedia shows. Jean-Christophe Canizares, chief executive at ECA2, continues in that post and now reports to Mr. Rossant.
 Anna Rotholz joined Outside, New York, in a new post, internal sales representative. She had most recently been representing directors and a music company called Squeak E Clean; she will continue to represent that company.
 Ryan's Grill, Buffet and Bakery, part of Buffets Holdings, Eagan, Minn., named Schafer Condon Carter, Chicago, agency of record on its account, which had been handled by Doner, Southfield, Mich. Billings were estimated at $15 million.
 The Scion division of Toyota Motor Sales, Torrance, Calif., selected three high schools as the winners of its first high school marketing competition. They are: Mt. Spokane High School, Mead, Wash.; Wichita High School East, Wichita, Kan.; and Ypsilanti High School, Ypsilanti, Mich. The schools win prize packages valued at up to $7,000 each, including a ''prom package,'' inviting a guest deejay to the school dance.
 Toby Vann joined Cossette New York, part of the Cossette Communication Group, as senior vice president and director for digital engagement. He succeeds Christian Quenneville, who left last year. Mr. Vann had been executive director for social media at Roundarch, New York, a digital consulting company.
 Correction: An item in Webdenda last week, about a new account for Zimmerman Advertising, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., misstated the name of the client. It is Ashley Furniture HomeStores, not Ashley Furniture Warehouse. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); GREEN MARKET (73%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); FAMILY (60%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE PROGRAMS (50%)

COMPANY: MCCANN WORLDGROUP (91%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (85%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); MACY'S INC (83%); CROWN MEDIA HOLDINGS INC (74%); COSSETTE INC (74%); MICROSOFT CORP (69%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (67%); MDC PARTNERS INC (54%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (52%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (85%); PUB (PAR) (84%); M (NYSE) (83%); CRWN (NASDAQ) (74%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (69%); MDZ.A (TSX) (54%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (85%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (83%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (74%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (74%); NAICS541430 GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (74%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (69%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009



410 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Stress Tests Prove a Sobering Idea

BYLINE: By ROB COX and RICHARD BEALES

 BODY:
What's the future of financial regulation? Legislators, regulators and bankers need not look too far for an answer. A somewhat functional blueprint may be under their noses in the form of the stress tests just completed on the 19 largest financial institutions.
 These examinations forced regulators, including the Federal Reserve, Treasury, Comptroller of the Currency and others into unprecedented cooperation. And by comparing big financial institutions, regional banks, credit card issuers, auto financiers and Wall Street firms, regulators mitigated the Lake Wobegon effect -- where everybody is above average. These ambitions should be part of any reform to the financial oversight system. 
 The stress tests were not perfect. For one, the assumptions behind them are still being argued. With 539,000 more Americans losing their jobs in April and the national unemployment rate rising to 8.9 percent, critics of the tests' worst-case assumption of 10.4 percent unemployment next year say the economy is already nearly there. 
 But some bank executives argue the tests were too tough. Regions Financial, for example, disagreed with the future losses assumed for its commercial real estate portfolio, a prime factor in regulators' decision to order the bank, which is based in Alabama, to raise $2.5 billion in new capital.
 But applying a uniform set of standards across the financial sector is logical, even though it is difficult to strike a balance between the big picture and legitimate differences in banks' circumstances.
 Until now, individual regulators have mostly examined banks one at a time. Even though stress tests have long been part of that process, it's easy to see how watchdogs working in silos might conclude almost all banks are stronger than average.
 But when multiple examiners mark each bank's performance against others on all manner of parameters, potential weaknesses become easier to detect.
 Stress tests conducted this way can't avoid some subjective and simplified assumptions. But it would be a mistake to let that obscure the merits of adopting the great exercise's comparative and coordinated interagency approach to the assessment of banks' capital strength.
 The Real Zombies 
 Amid the fuss over the stress tests, it's easy to forget the biggest zombies of the financial arena: Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage finance giants. Fannie lost $23 billion in the first quarter. The Treasury Department will keep it solvent, and has now committed a combined $400 billion to Fannie and Freddie. They deserve to be delisted and unambiguously placed on the government's balance sheet.
 Amazingly, Fannie's latest loss was smaller than those it and Freddie reported in the third and fourth quarters of last year. The shortfalls stemmed from supporting enormous books of now-troubled mortgages on mere slivers of capital. Both got away with it for years thanks to implicit government guarantees and influential friends in Washington.
 Part of the charade ended in September, when the government effectively took them over. The Treasury promised them up to $100 billion each. With the rest of the banking system still struggling, Fannie and Freddie have since played an even more prominent role in mortgage lending, largely at the government's behest. Now, at the same time as doubling its loss-covering commitment to each company to $200 billion, the Treasury has increased the quantities of assets and debt each may hold.
 Both companies still have long-suffering shareholders. The New York Stock Exchange could move to delist them but has shown remarkable forbearance, even though investors have for months now consigned them to the penny stock shelf.
 By happy coincidence, that helps the government further its claim that Fannie and Freddie are private companies, and therefore don't have to be accounted for in the federal budget. If that's really the case, you'd think they might have been forced to undergo the recent stress tests applied to other big banks -- but they weren't.
 While partly theater, the stress tests ultimately came off as broadly realistic. Similar realism with the undead Fannie and Freddie would end with shareholders put out of their misery and the companies' obligations counted as the government's.
 That would at least concentrate officials' minds on what the future might hold for the two companies: orderly euthanasia or a breakup into far smaller pieces followed by reprivatization -- this time completely free of government backing, implicit or otherwise.
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The government has committed $400 billion to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAREN BLEIER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (94%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LAYOFFS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); CREDIT CARDS (71%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (71%); DISMISSALS (69%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (56%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (52%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009



411 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 436 words

 BODY:
ANTITRUST ENFORCEMENT The Obama administration intends to beef up enforcement of antitrust claims against corporations, reversing the position of the Bush administration. 
 DEFENSIVE MEASURES In a training exercise, cadets at West Point spent several days recently trying to outwit attackers from the National Security Agency in Maryland as the they tried to hack into a computer network. [A1.] 
 MASTERING CLEAN COALChina is building clean coal power plants and mastering clean coal technology -- well ahead of the West's efforts. [A1.] 
 FOOD SAFETY CONCERNS Many food experts and food safety advocates are calling for an improved system of government oversight now handled by the Food and Drug Administration, which they contend has too little authority and money to do the job right. [A1.]
 LOSING ON CREDIT CARDS The nation's 19 largest banks expect to lose about $83 billion in credit card debt by the end of 2010, but if the unemployment rate continues upward, the total could rise even more. [B1.]
 A SHIFT FOR START-UPS In a shift, venture capitalists are supporting start-ups that create more efficient energy rather than those creating new forms of fuel that won't probably pay off for years. [B1.]
 BE WARY, PRINT PRESS Government remedies for the problems facing the newspaper industry may be far worse than the disease. The Media Equation: David Carr. [B1.]
 CHEVRON REPORTS ON CHEVRON When Chevron learned that ''60 Minutes'' was preparing a potentially damaging report about oil company contamination of the Amazon rainforest in Ecuador, it hired a former journalist to produce a video report from the corporation's point of view. [B8.]
 BIG PAYDAY FOR 'IDOL' Despite losing viewers through the years, the popular Fox Network show ''American Idol'' is making more money than ever through brand extensions, co-marketing arrangements and licensing fees for items like ice cream and trading cards of the judges like Paula Abdul, above. Advertising revenue for the company has risen in the last three years and is now more than $900 million annually. [B1.]
 LESS WILLING TO TALK Newspapers have had much more to say about their declining audiences than national television news. [B5.]
 VALENTINE'S MOVIE, THE SEQUEL After its success with the star-studded movie ''He's Just Not That Into You'' for Valentine's Day weekend in 2009, New Line Cinema is planning another star-studded movie release for Valentine's Day weekend in 2010. [B5.]
 PROMOTING VALUE More and more marketers are promoting the perceived value of packaged foods to help consumers during the recession. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [B2.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); FOOD SAFETY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (76%); COAL INDUSTRY (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); PACKAGED GOODS (75%); CREDIT CARDS (74%); VENTURE CAPITAL (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (71%); POWER PLANTS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (71%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (70%); JOURNALISM (70%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); PERSONAL DEBT (69%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); WRITERS (65%); COMPANY REVENUES (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (63%); REALITY TELEVISION (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); NETWORK TELEVISION (63%); BRANDING (62%); FOOD INDUSTRY (62%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (57%); RAIN FORESTS (50%)

COMPANY: NEW LINE CINEMA CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (58%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); ECUADOR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009



412 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Industry Is Said to Promise to Hold Down Costs Voluntarily

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Doctors, hospitals, drug makers and insurance companies will join President Obama on Monday in announcing their commitment to a sharp reduction in the growth of national health spending, White House officials said Sunday.
 The officials said the plan could save $2,500 a year for a family of four in the fifth year and a total of $2 trillion for the nation over 10 years. That could make it less expensive for Congress to enact comprehensive health insurance coverage, a daunting challenge facing the Obama administration.
 At this point, administration officials said, they do not have a way to enforce the commitment, other than by publicizing the performance of health care providers to hold them accountable. 
 By offering to hold down costs voluntarily, providers said, they hope to stave off new government price constraints that might be imposed by Congress or a National Health Board of the kind favored by many Democrats.
 In remarks prepared for delivery to health care providers on Monday, Mr. Obama says: ''These groups are voluntarily coming together to make an unprecedented commitment. Over the next 10 years, from 2010 to 2019, they are pledging to cut the growth rate of national health care spending by 1.5 percentage points each year -- an amount that's equal to over $2 trillion.''
 ''Reform is not a luxury that can be postponed, but a necessity that cannot wait,'' Mr. Obama says.
 In a letter addressed to Mr. Obama, six leaders of the health care industry say: ''We will do our part to achieve your administration's goal of decreasing by 1.5 percentage points the annual health care spending growth rate, saving $2 trillion or more. This represents more than a 20 percent reduction in the projected rate of growth.''
 The letter was signed by executives of the Advanced Medical Technology Association, a lobby for medical device manufacturers; the American Hospital Association; the American Medical Association; America's Health Insurance Plans, a trade group for insurers; the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America; and the Service Employees International Union.
 Signers of the letter said that large amounts could be saved by aggressive efforts to prevent obesity, coordinate care, manage chronic illnesses and curtail unnecessary tests and procedures; by standardizing insurance claim forms; and by increasing the use of information technology, like electronic medical records.
 Administration officials said private insurers and government programs could also save money by paying for entire episodes of care, rather than for each service separately.
 An administration official, speaking in a conference call on Sunday, said, ''The savings are crucially dependent on getting health care reform done this year.'' The administration insisted that the official not be identified.
 Some of the savings could be achieved by voluntary action in the private sector. But most of the savings in Medicare and Medicaid could not be achieved without changes in federal law and regulations.
 In the abstract, slowing the growth of health spending is a goal on which consumers and health care providers agree. But experience shows that specific proposals touch off fierce battles among interest groups fighting to expand their share of health care money.
 In a relatively rosy forecast, the White House said Sunday that the savings from a more efficient health care system would far exceed the costs of achieving universal health coverage, with federal subsidies for people who could not afford insurance on their own.
 The Department of Health and Human Services estimates that health spending will grow an average of 6.2 percent a year in the coming decade, to $4.4 trillion in 2018 from $2.4 trillion last year. 
 Health care now accounts for about 17 percent of the overall economy and, with no change in existing law, the share will grow to 21 percent in 2019, administration officials said. The commitments made by health care providers would hold down the share to 18 percent of the economy, and that difference is equivalent to savings of nearly $700 billion in 2019 alone, the officials said.
 The goal set forth in the letter resembles a proposal made in December by America's Health Insurance Plans, the lobby for insurers like Aetna, Humana, UnitedHealth and WellPoint. Administration officials said the idea was broached to them by Dennis Rivera, coordinator of the health care campaign of the Service Employees International Union.
 In a report being sent to Congress on Monday, two research and advocacy groups, the Center for American Progress and the Democratic Leadership Council, say that productivity growth in health care has lagged behind that of other industries.
 The government could save nearly $600 billion over the next decade if the health care industry increased its productivity growth by 1.5 to 2 percentage points a year, said the report, by David M. Cutler, a Harvard economist.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (79%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (79%); MEDICAL RECORDS (79%); MEDICAL DEVICES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MEDICAL INSURANCE CLAIMS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MEDICARE (76%); CHRONIC DISEASES (74%); OBESITY (73%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (73%); MEDICAID (73%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009



413 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: A Lot More to Cut

 BODY:
Faced with a $1.2 trillion deficit next year -- and a projected $640 billion Pentagon budget, not including the cost of two wars -- President Obama should have cut far deeper into wasteful weapons spending than the modest $8.8 billion in savings he has now announced. 
 Almost all of these trims had already been identified last month by Defense Secretary Robert Gates. The main new contribution was canceling an alternative engine program for the Air Force's new F-35 joint strike fighter -- total additional savings, $1 billion. 
 This year's Pentagon budget is more closely attuned to military and economic reality than the misdirected and undisciplined spending of the Bush era. But Mr. Obama forfeited a further chance for harvesting major savings from costly and unnecessary weapons systems designed for the cold war. Far bolder cuts in these systems will be needed in future Pentagon budgets. 
 That is the only way to free up money for other military needs -- including expanding the Army and buying the kind of armored vehicles most needed in places like Iraq -- while also helping to reduce huge deficits. This year's budget does not eliminate the Air Force's redundant stealth fighter, the F-22. It buys four more. It does not eliminate the Navy's costly blue water DDG-1000 destroyer. It buys three more. It makes no significant reductions in the Navy's wholly unneeded Virginia class attack submarine. These three programs account for almost $7 billion a year in unnecessary spending. 
 The budget also left untouched the $2.8 billion planned for the Marine Corps's troubled V-22 vertical takeoff aircraft, and reclaimed only a fraction of the billions that could be saved on missile defense while needed research and development proceed. These programs all have powerful Congressional constituencies, which is one big reason that successive administrations have been so timid about eliminating them. 
 But times may be changing. This month, the administration successfully resisted efforts by House appropriators to lard up the latest war-spending bill with unrelated weapons purchases. And -- with Mr. Gates's encouragement -- both houses are moving ahead on bills to reform the procurement system. Two-thirds of the largest weapons systems ran over their budgets last year, for a combined extra cost of $296 billion. These programs were, on average, almost two years behind schedule. 
 The Senate bill, approved last week, creates an independent cost estimate office in the Pentagon, reinforces requirements for terminating seriously over-budget systems and increases competition among contractors. If rigorously applied to all major contracts, it could bring big savings. Unfortunately, the House version, to be voted on later, applies only to about 20 percent of acquisitions. The final bill must provide broader coverage. 
 Unfortunately, military pork has long been a staple of American politics. But in a time of war and economic crisis, the Pentagon and Congress have no excuse. They must ensure that taxpayer dollars are used as cost-effectively as possible for the nation's defense. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (92%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); LEGISLATION (87%); NAVIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); MILITARY VESSELS (76%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (76%); NAVAL VESSELS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (83%); US NAVY (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); ROBERT M GATES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009



414 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 GATES SEEKS HILL APPROVAL FOR VISION OF MILITARY
 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates has predicted more unconventional wars and argued that America must shift its defense spending accordingly. He will face detailed questions about his spending plan during Congressional budget hearings this week. PAGE A8 
 NEW SOUTH AFRICAN CABINET 
 South Africa's new president, Jacob Zuma, named a cabinet that largely signaled a desire for continuity rather than the lunge to the left that some South Africans had hoped for and others had feared. PAGE A4 
 PUTIN CRITICIZES NATO
 Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin of Russia said the planned ''reset'' in relations with the United States had been hampered by NATO exercises in Georgia. PAGE A10 
 PRESIDENTIAL HOPES IN IRAN
 Iran's Interior Ministry said 475 people signed up to run in the June presidential election. But most of the hopefuls will not make it to election night. A panel, known for its conservative views, will likely disqualify all but a few (in 2005 the list was cut from 1,014 to 6). PAGE A6 
 OIL PACT IN IRAQ
 The Iraqi Oil Ministry and the Kurdistan Regional Government in northern Iraq reached an agreement that will allow the Kurds to export oil for the first time. PAGE A8 
 Somali Clashes Kill at Least 35 A6 
 Suicide Attack Kills 7 Afghans A8 National
 CONCIERGE MEDICAL CARE
 Remains in Demand
 The recession has barely slowed the growth of concierge medical practices, which charge hefty fees for personalized care and around-the-clock access. PAGE A12 
 HOLDING DOWN HEALTH COSTS
 Doctors, hospitals, drug makers and insurance companies will join President Obama on Monday to announce their commitment to a sharp reduction in the growth of national health spending, White House officials said. PAGE A12
 New York 
 CRASH INQUIRY TO EXAMINE
 Alertness of Pilots
 As the government prepares for hearings into the February plane crash outside Buffalo that killed 50 people, the focus is on the alertness of the two pilots. PAGE A19
 NO ROOM FOR NEW TEACHERS
 In an effort to cut costs and avoid teacher layoffs, the Department of Education has ordered principals to fill vacancies with internal candidates, which has left aspiring teachers at education schools scrambling for jobs. PAGE A19 
 Metropolitan Diary A20
 Business
 MAINTAINING SEPARATION 
 Of the Press and the State
 To leave the ailing journalism industry tin-cupping its way around a government it reports on seems desperate and ill-advised. The cure, federally financed journalists, might be worse than the disease. The Media Equation. PAGE B1
 NO CASH PROBLEMS FOR 'IDOL'
 Despite losing viewers in each of the last three years, ''American Idol,'' still the top-rated series on television, is generating ever-growing profits for its creators and Fox Broadcasting. PAGE B1 
 TWITTER'S RETENTION WOES
 Though Twitter has surged in popularity, many of the microblogging site's new users are signing up, only to never use it again. PAGE B4
 TV IGNORES AUDIENCE FLIGHT
 A study found that while newspapers often covered declining news audiences, national television news shows had little to say on the matter, even though the problems of print and broadcast have been similar in scope. PAGE B5
 BLUNTING A NEGATIVE STORY
 Chevron hired a former CBS reporter to produce a news report meant to counteract potentially negative publicity from a ''60 Minutes'' segment on oil company contamination of the Amazon rain forest. PAGE B5
 Competing to Stretch Your Buck B5 
 Arts
 A REWORKED TRANSIT HUB 
 At Ground Zero Site
 Nicolai Ouroussoff writes that Santiago Calatrava's revised design for a transit hub at the World Trade Center is a monument to the creative ego that celebrates Mr. Calatrava's engineering prowess but little else. PAGE C1
 LINCOLN CENTER'S FACE-LIFT
 The overhaul of Lincoln Center, the country's largest performing arts center, is entering the homestretch. PAGE C1
 BIG AMBITIONS, SMALL SPACE
 Though their music often heads in different directions, Bjork and the Dirty Projectors could be musical cousins, and they took the stage together at the tiny Housing Works Bookstore Cafe in SoHo to perform ambitious new works from each. Review by Jon Pareles. PAGE C1
 Twine, Cello and a Shadow Cat C2
 Sports
 DAMON POWERS YANKEES
 Johnny Damon is one of the most dangerous hitters in baseball right now, and his timely hitting pushed the Yankees to a 5-3 victory over the Baltimore Orioles. PAGE D5
 METS WIN SEVENTH STRAIGHT
 Late offense led to the surging Mets' seventh win in a row, an 8-4 victory over Pittsburgh at Citi Field. The Mets now stand alone atop of the National League East. PAGE D1
 HOUSTON DEFIES ODDS
 The Houston Rockets, who have defied the odds all season long as they have lost key players and continued to win, defeated the Los Angeles Lakers 99-87 after learning they would be without center Yao Ming for the remainder of the playoffs. PAGE D3 
 YAO'S LONG ROAD BACK
 Yao Ming's latest foot injury could derail the Houston Rockets' season as well as his career. If he successfully comes back, he will have to get over the nagging fear that accompanies his every step. Harvey Araton, Sports of the Times. PAGE D3
 Player Confirms Drug Results D2 
 Obituaries
 VENETIA PHAIR
 As an 11-year-old in 1930, she bestowed the name ''Pluto'' upon a long-suspected ''trans-Neptunian body'' that had been photographed for the first time. Her well-connected grandfather passed the suggestion along to astronomers at the Lowell Observatory in Flagstaff, Ariz., who voted unanimously to adopt the name. PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (86%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (85%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (85%); JOURNALISM (84%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); CONSERVATISM (68%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (66%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (65%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (64%); INSURANCE (63%); LAYOFFS (63%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%); WRITERS (60%); REALITY TELEVISION (60%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (80%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (80%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (90%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); JACOB ZUMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SOMALIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009



415 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Putin Says NATO Exercises in Georgia Hinder U.S.-Russia Relations

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin said Sunday that the planned ''reset'' in relations between Russia and the United States had been hampered by NATO exercises in Georgia, and that he hoped the United States would ''step on the brake hard'' to prevent the relationship from deteriorating. 
 In an interview with Japanese news services before a visit to Tokyo, Mr. Putin also said negotiations on strategic nuclear weapons should be linked to changes in the United States' planned missile-defense system. Russia has long complained that proposed missile-defense facilities in Poland and the Czech Republic would pose a threat to Russia, and Mr. Putin said offensive and defensive capacities were ''inseparably bound up.'' 
 ''I don't think you have to be an expert to see that if one side wants to or has an umbrella against various threats, it can begin to suffer from the illusion that it is permissible to do whatever it likes, and then its actions will become many times more aggressive and the threat of a global confrontation will reach a danger level,'' he said. 
 ''Russia will, of course, link the issues of missile defense and everything related to it with strategic offensive weapons,'' he said. He went on to say that Russia was encouraged by the United States' disarmament agenda and was ready to begin talks about replacing the 1991 Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, or Start, which expires in December.
 Mr. Putin emphasized that the ''reset,'' a term used by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., was a United States initiative rather than a Russian one. He said that Russia welcomed the overture, but that the military exercises in Georgia that began last week were ''a signal in a different direction'' and a show of support for President Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia. He went on to characterize Mr. Saakashvili's government as undemocratic, citing a clash between the police and protesters and a brief military mutiny in Georgia last week.
 ''We believe this is a step backward,'' he said of the exercises, run by NATO's Partnership for Peace program, which includes nations that are not members of the alliance. ''But we understand that it takes time for brakes to take effect. We very much hope that the current U.S. leadership will step on the brake hard and slow down the negative trends in the development of links between our states.''
 He also said he and President Dmitri A. Medvedev had not yet decided which posts they would seek when Mr. Medvedev's term expires in 2012. Mr. Putin was constitutionally barred from seeking a third consecutive presidential term last year but could run again in 2012. He said the decision would center on their handling of the financial crisis.
 ''Both President Medvedev and I will decide what we will do -- both he and I -- depending on the results of our work,'' he said. ''As for him personally, you should ask him, but I repeat, I have known him for a long time and I know that he is a very decent man and he will look at his political future proceeding from the interest of the country and the results of our joint efforts. Time will tell.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin on Saturday in Moscow. Hespoke Sunday of the ''reset'' in relations with the United States.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GRIGORY DUKOR/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TRENDS (76%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (76%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (93%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (92%); JOE BIDEN (58%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); GEORGIA (94%); POLAND (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); JAPAN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009



416 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Separation Of Press And State

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com http://twitter.com/carr2n

 BODY:
So it's come to this: Even the president of the United States feels sorry for journalists.
 Every president at every White House Correspondents' dinner makes nice noises about the function of a free press. But at this year's dinner, on Saturday night, President Obama's admiration was mixed with what sounded like pity. ''A government without newspapers, a government without a tough and vibrant media of all sorts,'' he said, ''is not an option for the United States of America.''
 That hurts. Maybe next week, all three branches of government can collaborate on a bake sale/car wash on the Mall, with proceeds going to save journalism. 
 The dinner was the second event last week at which media types bumped knees with politicians. The first was a hearing convened by Senator John Kerry on Wednesday to air some possible fixes for an entire industry. It's the kind of session that should bring out rugged coverage from skeptical reporters, except that the business in question was their own. 
 Given the government's willingness to bail out stricken industries, it probably seemed reasonable to look at some forms of relief for the news media. James M. Moroney III, executive vice president of A. H. Belo and publisher of The Dallas Morning News, spoke at the hearing, suggesting that the losses of recent years should be put against the earnings of years past and that the industry get special treatment in the form of tax breaks. 
 While he was at it, Mr. Moroney suggested that the government should pass legislation guaranteeing newspapers ''reasonable compensation'' from Internet companies that reproduce content without paying for it. 
 Senator Benjamin L. Cardin, Democrat of Maryland, has introduced a bill he calls the Newspaper Revitalization Act that would treat newspapers as educational nonprofit entities with a kind of tax status similar to churches, hospitals and public broadcasters. In exchange for that most-favored-nation status, the industry would trade in what would seem to be one of the bedrocks of a truly free press, the right to endorse candidates for public office. 
 I'm all for journalists swarming the Hill, especially now that about half of the reporters who used to work there are gone, potentially leaving much of government to its own devices. But to leave our industry tin-cupping its way around a government it covers seems desperate and ill-advised: a cure that might be worse than the disease.
 No one is arguing that the situation is not dire. Though Marissa Mayer, a Google vice president, calmly told the senators on the panel led by Senator Kerry that ''it's still very early,'' we all know better. In the past six months, five major American publishers have filed for bankruptcy. 
 Given that monopolies that drove the business are falling apart, some antitrust relief that would allow the industry to collectively hit the reset button seems reasonable. But how exactly is the rest of it an agenda item for an elected government? Besides all the esteem we seem to hold ourselves in, it is difficult to make a rational economic argument for granting special favors to a relatively minor part of the American economy. Alan D. Mutter, who blogs at Reflections of a Newsosaur, said that newspapers ''collectively employ a mere 0.2 percent of the nation's labor force and generate only 0.36 percent of the gross national product.'' In other words, we are not, like the bankers and the auto industry we have covered so ferociously, too big to fail. 
 Wasn't it up to publishers when things were fat and happy to invest for this foreseeable crisis? And wasn't it the publishers themselves who leapt into the arms of online aggregators and now want government intervention for what seems to be a business negotiation gone bad? 
 Steve Coll, a former managing editor of The Washington Post and now a writer for The New Yorker, suggested that Congress should look at easing the restrictions of journalistic institutions trying to morph into nonprofits and begin replacing lost reporting by financing a beefed-up Corporation for Public Broadcasting. 
 After watching the previous administration treat the C.P.B. like a cat toy, it's hard to imagine that government would do any better job as publisher than many of the other state-controlled news media around the globe.
 There have been great publications and great journalists hit hard by the current slide, but no one -- not even, or especially, the United States government -- can take us back to a time when publishers' business interests and the greater civic interest were perfectly aligned.
 Government bailouts, including special tax status, seem likely to kill independent journalism, not save it. A free press that serves at the pleasure of its government is a diminution of the intent of the founders and not, by the way, a free press. 
 David Simon, the former reporter from The Baltimore Sun and now a creator of television series including ''The Wire,'' boiled it down thusly in his turn at the microphone.
 ''High-end journalism can and should bite any hand that tries to feed it,'' he said. ''And it should bite a government hand most viciously.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BAILOUTS (76%); PUBLISHING (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX RELIEF (71%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (61%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (53%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); MARISSA MAYER (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BEN CARDIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009



417 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Harry, Louise and Barack

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Is this the end for Harry and Louise?
 Harry and Louise were the fictional couple who appeared in advertisements run by the insurance industry in 1993, fretting about what would happen if ''government bureaucrats'' started making health care decisions. The ads helped kill the Clinton health care plan, and have stood, ever since, as a symbol of the ability of powerful special interests to block health care reform.
 But on Saturday, excited administration officials called me to say that this time the medical-industrial complex (their term, not mine) is offering to be helpful. 
 Six major industry players -- including America's Health Insurance Plans (AHIP), a descendant of the lobbying group that spawned Harry and Louise -- have sent a letter to President Obama sketching out a plan to control health care costs. What's more, the letter implicitly endorses much of what administration officials have been saying about health economics. 
 Are there reasons to be suspicious about this gift? You bet -- and I'll get to that in a bit. But first things first: on the face of it, this is tremendously good news.
 The signatories of the letter say that they're developing proposals to help the administration achieve its goal of shaving 1.5 percentage points off the growth rate of health care spending. That may not sound like much, but it's actually huge: achieving that goal would save $2 trillion over the next decade. 
 How are costs to be contained? There are few details, but the industry has clearly been reading Peter Orszag, the budget director. 
 In his previous job, as the director of the Congressional Budget Office, Mr. Orszag argued that America spends far too much on some types of health care with little or no medical benefit, even as it spends too little on other types of care, like prevention and treatment of chronic conditions. Putting these together, he concluded that ''substantial opportunities exist to reduce costs without harming health over all.'' 
 Sure enough, the health industry letter talks of ''reducing over-use and under-use of health care by aligning quality and efficiency incentives.'' It also picks up a related favorite Orszag theme, calling for ''adherence to evidence-based best practices and therapies.'' All in all, it's just what the doctor, er, budget director ordered.
 Before we start celebrating, however, we have to ask the obvious question. Is this gift a Trojan horse? After all, several of the organizations that sent that letter have in the past been major villains when it comes to health care policy. 
 I've already mentioned AHIP. There's also the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), the lobbying group that helped push through the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 -- a bill that both prevented Medicare from bargaining over drug prices and locked in huge overpayments to private insurers. Indeed, one of the new letter's signatories is former Representative Billy Tauzin, who shepherded that bill through Congress then immediately left public office to become PhRMA's lavishly paid president. 
 The point is that there's every reason to be cynical about these players' motives. Remember that what the rest of us call health care costs, they call income.
 What's presumably going on here is that key interest groups have realized that health care reform is going to happen no matter what they do, and that aligning themselves with the Party of No will just deny them a seat at the table. (Republicans, after all, still denounce research into which medical procedures are effective and which are not as a dastardly plot to deprive Americans of their freedom to choose.) 
 I would strongly urge the Obama administration to hang tough in the bargaining ahead. In particular, AHIP will surely try to use the good will created by its stance on cost control to kill an important part of health reform: giving Americans the choice of buying into a public insurance plan as an alternative to private insurers. The administration should not give in on this point.
 But let me not be too negative. The fact that the medical-industrial complex is trying to shape health care reform rather than block it is a tremendously good omen. It looks as if America may finally get what every other advanced country already has: a system that guarantees essential health care to all its citizens.
 And serious cost control would change everything, not just for health care, but for America's fiscal future. As Mr. Orszag has emphasized, rising health care costs are the main reason long-run budget projections look so grim. Slow the rate at which those costs rise, and the future will look far brighter.
 I still won't count my health care chickens until they're hatched. But this is some of the best policy news I've heard in a long time. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LOBBYING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INSURANCE (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); MEDICARE (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BEST PRACTICES (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); LEGISLATION (70%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (60%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA'S HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS (83%)

PERSON: PETER ORSZAG (77%); BARACK OBAMA (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009



418 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 245 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC DATA Reports will include the trade deficit for March (Tuesday); retail sales for April, import prices for April and business inventories for March (Wednesday); the Producer Price Index for April (Thursday); and the Consumer Price Index for April, industrial production and capacity utilization for April and the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for May. 
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Reports will come from Dish Network (Monday); MBIA, Nissan Motor, Ticketmaster and Warnaco (Tuesday); CA, Dr Pepper Snapple and Macy's (Wednesday); Blockbuster, BT, Kohl's, Nordstrom, Sony and Wal-Mart (Thursday); and Abercrombie & Fitch and J. C. Penney (Friday).
 IN WASHINGTON Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Adm. Mike Mullen, above, testify before the House Armed Services Committee about priorities in the 2010 budget (Wednesday).
 The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee conducts a hearing on the insurance giant American International Group (Wednesday).
 The Senate Finance Committee holds a hearing on financing health care reform (Tuesday).
 A Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee holds a hearing on manufacturing and the credit crisis (Wednesday).
 ET CETERA The chief executive of General Motors, Fritz Henderson, leads a conference call to discuss the automaker's restructuring (Monday).
 The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, speaks about the bank stress tests at a conference at Jekyll Island, Ga. (Monday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCER PRICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); BUDGETS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); INSURANCE (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (68%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (67%); CONFERENCE CALLS (65%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (57%); TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (57%); DISH NETWORK CORP (57%); WARNACO GROUP INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (84%); AFT (FRA) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); 7201 (TSE) (57%); DISH (NASDAQ) (57%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (57%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2342 BRASSIERES, GIRDLES, & ALLIED GARMENTS (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: FREDERICK HENDERSON (76%); BEN BERNANKE (59%); ROBERT M GATES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009



419 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: The G.D.P. Question

BYLINE: By BOB PACKWOOD. 
Bob Packwood, a former chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, was a Republican senator from Oregon from 1969 to 1995.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 PRESIDENT OBAMA'S plan to increase the tax rate on those making more than $250,000 has further fueled a national debate about the virtue of raising taxes on the ''rich.'' But this debate puts the cart before the horse. The real question is not how much we want to tax, but how much we want to spend. After all, the more a government spends, the more it has to tax or borrow.
 There is a global trend in government spending as a percentage of gross domestic product, and that is up, up, up. Fifty years ago all governments in the United States -- federal, state and local -- together spent about 20 percent of the G.D.P. In 2010 that figure could approach 35 percent. This pattern is generally true of Western democracies. Thirty years ago, they typically spent less of their G.D.P. than they spend now. Today Britain exceeds 40 percent. France and Italy border on 50 percent and the Nordic countries spend even more. 
 So Americans have a choice. We can spend 40 percent of our G.D.P., and provide services like Britain's national health care. If we spent like the Nordic countries, we could provide government-paid maternity leave, subsidize college tuition and offer a health plan that was close to free for all Americans. But this would leave significantly less money for taxpayers to spend as they want. 
 Some people might assume that we could afford the maximum amount of government largess and still avoid pain for most taxpayers by simply collecting more taxes from the ''rich.'' Not a chance. Let's assume, based on historical patterns and President Obama's suggested spending, that at some point, the spending of all governments in the United States, federal and local, could add up to 40 percent of G.D.P. Mr. Obama proposes to increase the tax rate on income over $250,000 to 39.6 percent. The billions of dollars a year raised by the higher rate won't begin to cover the trillion or so a year in increased government spending. Nor would current state and local taxes support their share of that spending. Therefore taxes would have to be raised on Americans making less than $250,000. 
 One other option would be a national value-added tax on goods. But this would ultimately take its hardest toll on lower- and middle-income consumers. 
 Even if tax increases are limited to the so-called rich, Mr. Obama's plan, compounded by state and local taxes, could slow the overall economy. Maybe we have not reached our limit yet. Maybe we can have a tax rate of 50 percent to 60 percent on income above $250,000 and people will still work. But at some stage the law of diminishing returns sets in.
 The choice to spend less than 40 percent of G.D.P. on government services is not as easy as it once was, because the federal government has already assumed so much responsibility for shouldering the costs of health care and retirement. Fifty years ago, spending on Social Security, pensions and health care was a relatively small fraction of the total federal budget. Medicare and Medicaid did not even exist until the 1960s. Today, taxpayers are footing the bill for far more government programs. But we simply cannot raise enough money in taxes from the rich to pay for the programs the president wants. 
 So we basically have two options: raise taxes on the middle class, or demand that federal, state and local governments spend less. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); TRENDS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); VALUE ADDED TAX (73%); TUITION FEES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INCOME TAX (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); MATERNITY LEAVE (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009



420 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: ADMINISTRATION WILL STRENGTHEN ANTITRUST RULES

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama's top antitrust official this week plans to restore an aggressive enforcement policy against corporations that use their market dominance to elbow out competitors or to keep them from gaining market share. 
 The new enforcement policy would reverse the Bush administration's approach, which strongly favored defendants against antitrust claims. It would restore a policy that led to the landmark antitrust lawsuits against Microsoft and Intel in the 1990s.
 The head of the Justice Department's antitrust division, Christine A. Varney, is to announce the policy reversal in a speech she will give on Monday before the Center for American Progress, a liberal policy research organization. She will deliver the same speech on Tuesday to the United States Chamber of Commerce. 
 The speeches were described by people who have consulted with her about the policy shift. The administration is hoping to encourage smaller companies in an array of industries to bring their complaints to the Justice Department about potentially improper business practices by their larger rivals. Some of the biggest antitrust cases were initiated by complaints taken to the Justice Department.
 Ms. Varney is expected to say that the administration rejects the impulse to go easy on antitrust enforcement during weak economic times. 
 She will assert instead that severe recessions can provide dangerous incentives for large and dominating companies to engage in predatory behavior that harms consumers and weakens competition. The announcement is aimed at making sure that no court or party to a lawsuit can cite the Bush administration policy as the government's official view in any pending cases.
 In the speeches, Ms. Varney is expected to explicitly warn judges and litigants in antitrust lawsuits not involving the government to ignore the Bush administration's policies, which were formally outlined in a report by the Justice Department last year. The report applied legal standards that made it difficult to bring new cases involving monopoly and predatory practices. 
 As a result of the Bush administration's interpretation of antitrust laws, the enforcement pipeline for major monopoly cases -- which can take years for prosecutors to develop -- is thin. During the Bush administration, the Justice Department did not file a single case against a dominant firm for violating the antimonopoly law. 
 Many smaller companies complaining of abusive practices by their larger rivals were so frustrated by the Bush administration's antitrust policy that they went to the European Commission and to Asian authorities. 
 Ms. Varney's new policy more closely aligns American antitrust policy on monopolies and predatory practices with the views of antitrust regulators at the European Commission.
 Herbert Hovenkamp, a leading antitrust scholar regarded as a centrist between those seeking more aggressive enforcement and those who generally argue for restraint, said the guidelines by the Bush administration were ''a brief for defendants.'' 
 He said that the repudiation of those guidelines by the Obama administration ''will almost certainly have a greater impact than the guidelines themselves had.''
 ''This will be bad news for heavyweights in the tech industries -- companies like Google and Microsoft,'' said Professor Hovenkamp, who teaches at the University of Iowa College of Law. 
 ''People aligned with plaintiffs will rejoice. Those aligned with defendants will wring their hands. A lot of law firms will be indifferent because they take money from both sides.'' 
 Ms. Varney is expected to say that the Obama administration will be guided by the view that it was a major mistake during the outset of the Great Depression to relax antitrust enforcement, only to try to catch up and become more vigorous later. She will say the mistake enabled many large companies to engage in pricing, wage and collusive practices that harmed consumers and took years to reverse.
 While Ms. Varney is not expected to mention any specific companies or industries vulnerable under the new policy, those who have talked to her about the speech say she is aiming at agriculture, energy, health care, technology and telecommunications companies. She may also be reviewing the conduct of some in the financial services industry, which is now undergoing a wave of consolidation as a result of the financial crisis.
 Ms. Varney, who headed the Internet practice group of the Washington-based Hogan & Hartson law firm, served as a commissioner at the Federal Trade Commission in the 1990s after working in the White House during the early years of the Clinton administration. 
 Signaling her intent to revive a moribund antitrust program, she has recruited a collection of senior aides, many of whom are seasoned antitrust litigators or worked in the Clinton administration and the Federal Trade Commission and were involved in many prominent cases, including the one against Microsoft. They include Molly S. Boast, William Cavanaugh, Gene Kimmelman, Carl Shapiro and Philip J. Weiser. 
 Antitrust policy is set by Washington in two ways: by the interpretation of laws announced by the Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission through guidelines for the courts and private litigants, and by the enforcement cases that those agencies decide to bring. The government's guidelines are often cited by lawyers and given considerable weight by judges in antitrust cases, including those lawsuits that the government does not participate in.
 It is not unlawful for a company to gain control of a market. It becomes unlawful if the company engages in conduct to exclude or harm competitors with no business justification.
 Conservative antitrust experts, some judges and defendants in such cases have said that the line is too difficult to draw and that it is better to let rivalries play out in the marketplace than in the courts. 
 After more than a year of hearings and studies, the Justice Department in 2008 published a 215-page report analyzing Section 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act, explaining the government's approach to the monopolistic and predatory practices of companies. 
 Reflecting deep skepticism of the role of government in the marketplace, the 2008 report made formal a set of policies that had largely been followed by the Justice Department, but not by the Federal Trade Commission, during the Bush administration. 
 When the report was issued, Thomas Barnett, then the head of the antitrust division and the architect of the guidelines, said that they were meant to articulate ''clear standards'' for determining whether certain types of conduct by large companies would harm competition. 
 In a rare split with the Justice Department, three of the four commissioners at the Federal Trade Commission denounced the guidelines, calling them ''a blueprint for radically weakened enforcement'' against anticompetitive practices. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christine Varney of the Justice Department's antitrust division. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN ETHERIDGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (95%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); BUSINESS TORTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); MONOPOLIZATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (93%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009



421 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: The Jobless Rate, Slow To Improve, Tests Obama

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
On the economy, President Obama has a timing problem. Congressional Democrats may have a bigger one. 
 Nearly four months into his presidency, Mr. Obama has begun to describe a pivot from economic crisis to economic recovery. From stabilized consumer spending to higher construction spending, he said last week, ''the gears of our economic engine'' are ''slowly turning once again.''
 The problem is that those gears are unlikely to churn out many new jobs anytime soon. Even as the White House envisions renewed economic growth by this summer, advisers believe that the unemployment rate -- at 8.9 percent after its most recent increase -- will continue rising for perhaps another year. 
 The lag between recovery and falling unemployment carries multiple potential consequences for Mr. Obama's agenda.
 The lag could erode his popularity and, thus, his clout. It could squeeze his policy ambitions from the left and the right -- with Mr. Obama's fellow Democrats demanding additional stimulus spending when he wants to practice fiscal discipline, and Republicans pressing to delay tax increases scheduled for 2011.
 It also could exacerbate a historic tendency of voters to punish a president's party in midterm elections, which would limit Mr. Obama's freedom to maneuver. In the politics of the economy, said Peter Hart, a Democratic pollster, high unemployment constitutes ''the floodwaters.''
 ''You can't build enough sandbags to keep it from spilling over into voters' attitudes,'' Mr. Hart said.
 Midterm Troubles
 The experiences of Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton point to the problem that Mr. Obama and his party now face after successfully pushing a $787 billion economic recovery package through Congress. 
 Like Mr. Obama, Presidents Reagan and Clinton also won ''change'' elections and enacted major economic programs in their first years in office. Both cruised to re-election -- but only after their parties paid a price. Unemployment hit 10 percent during the 1982 midterm campaign; the Republicans' loss of 26 seats in the House slowed the pace of the Reagan revolution. In 1994, Democrats lost their 40-year grip on the House of Representatives, curbing Mr. Clinton's political ambitions for the remainder of his presidency.
 Mr. Obama's advisers believe that unemployment will decline in 2010, but not until late in the year. That may not help Democrats running for the House and Senate -- as President George Bush discovered in his campaign against Mr. Clinton in 1992, when economic growth came too late to lift the mood of voters.
 ''For the midterm elections,'' said Alan Abramowitz, an Emory University political scientist, ''the important thing is what the economic indicators are showing in the first and second quarters.''
 The economist Mark Zandi predicts that the second quarter of 2010 will see unemployment peak at 10 percent, the level Reagan-era Republicans found politically toxic.
 Preaching Patience
 In 1982, Republican candidates asked voters to ''stay the course'' with Reagan's policies. ''It didn't really help us, but it was the best we had,'' recalled Vin Weber, then a first-term House Republican from Minnesota who ultimately survived.
 Congressional Democrats are already voicing similar themes. ''As long as the American people have a sense that the economy is turning around, the people will have patience for sticking with the president and Congress,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, who heads the House Democrats' campaign committee. Besides, Mr. Van Hollen added, Republicans ''have no alternative.''
 His counterpart at the House Republicans' committee, Representative Pete Sessions of Texas, may indeed face an uphill fight with his argument that Mr. Obama is not trying to create jobs. In an interview, Mr. Sessions cited rising unemployment in asserting that the administration intended to ''diminish employment and diminish stock prices'' as part of a ''divide and conquer'' strategy to consolidate power.
 Mr. Sessions, in his seventh term, said Mr. Obama's agenda was ''intended to inflict damage and hardship on the free enterprise system, if not to kill it.'' By next fall, he predicted, voters may regain appreciation for the era of Republican governance when ''many dreams were achieved,'' the size of the economy doubled and employment and financial markets hit record levels.
 Polls offer little evidence that Americans are prepared to accept those arguments. But voters anxious about the economy do tend to blame the party in power.
 For now, Mr. Obama retains the ability to argue, after a generation in which conservative economic policies were generally ascendant, that the difficulties today result from past mistakes. But persistently high unemployment will over time make that argument more difficult to sell, especially if coupled with additional economic setbacks.
 ''The question is, when does Obama inherit the economy?'' said a Republican pollster, Bill McInturff. It may happen, in a political sense, earlier than the president and his party would like.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); TAX LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009



422 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: May 11, 2009

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: I Dreamed a Dream in Time Gone By

BYLINE: SARAH KAVANAGH


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students will research how the American dream has been experienced throughout history and then create a comprehensive mind map illustrating their findings. 

 BODY:
Overview of Lesson Plan: In this lesson, students will research how the American dream has been experienced throughout history and then create a comprehensive mind map illustrating their findings.
Suggested Time Allowance: One to two class periods.
Activities/Procedures:
1. WARM-UP/DO-NOW:
Have students write responses to the following prompt: "What is your definition of the American dream? Describe some examples of people you know, have heard about, or have read about that have dreamed an American dream." Once all have responded, ask students to share their answers.
- What do the people they described have in common?
- Do students think that the American dream is specific to the United States in some way? If so, how and why?
- Why does the American dream have such a prominent place in our nation's self-identity?
- Do people often see the American dream realized? Why or why not?
During this discussion, ask two student volunteers to write words and phrases from students' comments that say something significant about the American dream on the classroom board. Keep these words and phrases on the board for the entire period for students to use later in the lesson.
2. ARTICLE QUESTIONS:
As a class, read and discuss the article "What Happens to the American Dream in a Recession?" focusing on the following questions:
- According to this article, what is the classic definition of the American dream? Do you think that this dream (as it is classically defined) often comes true? Why or why not?
- Why do you think more people believe in the American dream today than they did four years ago, when our economic outlook was much brighter?
- Describe the shift in the definition of the American dream over the past four years? What do you think accounts for this change?
- Which definitions of the American dream resonate most with you? Why?
- Why do you think Barry Glassner believes that it would be difficult to find a different country where so many people believe in possibilities even in dire circumstances? Do you agree with him? Why or why not?
3. ACTIVITY:
Depending on the size of your class and how many groups you wish to have for this activity, split the class accordingly. Provide each pair or group with a different article from The New York Times archives. Each of these articles is from a different era in American history and embeds the idea of the American dream as it relates to that time period:
Group 1: Times article from January 1, 1933: "America Faces 1933's Realities"
Group 2: Times article from May 13, 1951: "The Most Powerful Idea in the World"
Group 3: Times article from August 9, 1959: "Essence of America"
Group 4: Times article from March 7, 1965: "The American Dream"
Group 5: Times article from January 26, 1969: "Youth in Revolt"
Group 6: Times article from October 17, 1974: "Pre-Election Mood: 'There's No Time for Dreams'"
Group 7: Times article from December 2, 1979: "The Looming 80's"
Group 8: Times article from June 23, 1996: "Testing the Resonance of the American Dream"
Group 9: Times article from June 24, 2001: "Our Towns; A Chance to Live, and Then Describe, Her Own American Dream"
Group 10: Times article from May 21, 2005: "You Really Can't Be Too Rich"
Instruct all groups to read their assigned article while completing the handout "American Dreaming," in which students are asked to examine how the American dream is presented and discussed in their assigned article and then directed to compare and relate this historic concept to contemporary interpretations of it.
Once groups have finished this activity inform them that the class will be creating a mind map. Instructions for creating a mind map can be found at Litemind.com. Many examples of mind maps can be found by conducting a Google image search for "mind map." Using the images you find, show your students examples of mind maps before beginning the project. When creating their section of the class mind map on the American dream, encourage students to use color coding and illustrations with different types of media: digital text, magazine and newspaper articles, original drawings, designs, 3-D objects, etc.
Create the center of the mind map before class on a piece of poster board. Then offer each group a piece of poster board. Show students how their piece of poster board will connect to the central piece that you created before class. Draw a mark on their poster board at the exact spot their mind map drawing will touch the central piece's drawing. Let students know that their section of the mind map should meet the following criteria: It should inform viewers of the time period they read about and how the American dream was interpreted during that period; it should be visually interesting, and the visuals should support the content (if the content is depressing and/or tragic, the visuals should match); and it should make connections between the contemporary conceptions of the American dream and historic ones.
4. FOR HOMEWORK OR FUTURE CLASSES:
Have students work in their pairs or groups to complete their section of the mind map for homework. In a future class, put all pieces of the mind map together and have students present their section to the rest of the class. Follow these presentations with a class discussion about what students notice when they look at that mind map as a whole. Does examining the American dream in this way make them think differently about it? In what ways?
 
Related Times Resources:

        
ADDITIONAL TIMES ARTICLES AND MULTIMEDIA:
Video: Defining the American Dream
Image: The American Dream's Rising Cost
Special Section: Class Matters
        
LEARNING NETWORK RESOURCES:
Lesson Plan: American Dreaming
Telling Our Own Versions of the Story of the United States
Teaching with The Times: Class Matters
Lesson Plan: That's the Spirit
Examining Historical Perspective on Commercial Ambition in the United States
        
ARCHIVAL TIMES MATERIALS:
        
TIMES TOPICS:
United States
Immigration and Emigration
United States Economy
        
OTHER RESOURCES:
Novel Reflections: The American Dream
PBS's American Masters' American Novel Web site examines the American dream in American literature
Deepening the American Dream
Bill Moyers collects video responses of Americans' discussing their conception of the American Dream
What is the American Dream?
The Library of Congress's "The Learning Page" defines the American dream and links to lesson plans on the topic. 
        
 
        
Interdisciplinary Connections:
        
Language Arts
        
Respond to an American novel that you are reading in class by addressing the tensions between the realities presented in the story and the dreams held by the characters. How do the characters manage to strive for possibilities that seem out of their reach in the midst of harsh realities? This response can take the form of a paper, a journal, a mural, a monologue, a book review, a drawing, a collage, a poster, poetry, a scrapbook or a form of your own creation.
        
Journalism
        
Poll your school's community on the questions presented in The Times article you read in class. Write an article comparing your school's position on the American dream to the nation as a whole. If the polling results at your school are significantly different than the national results, be sure to address possible reasons for this discrepancy. 
        
Academic Content Standards:
        
Grades 6-12
Civics Standard 9 - Understands the importance of Americans' sharing and supporting certain values, beliefs and principles of American constitutional democracy.
Civics Standard 11 - Understands the role of diversity in American life and the importance of shared values and political and civic beliefs in an increasingly diverse society.
Historical Understanding Standard 1 - Understands and knows how to analyze chronological relationships and patterns.
Historical Understanding Standard 2 - Understands the historical perspective.
History Standard 31 - Understands economic, social and cultural developments in the contemporary United States.
Language Arts Standard 1 - Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process.

        
What Happens to the American Dream in a Recession?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HISTORY (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); VOLUNTEERS (52%) American History; Civics; History of North America; Human Systems; Individual Rights; U.S. Economy; Visual Literacy

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011



423 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING ASIA; Japan: Opposition Leader Resigns

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Ichiro Ozawa, the Japanese opposition leader, announced his resignation on Monday, saying he wanted to prevent a campaign finance scandal involving one of his aides from hurting his party's chances of unseating the long-governing Liberal Democratic Party.
Mr. Ozawa told a hastily gathered news conference that he would step down as head of Japan's main opposition Democratic Party, whose lead in public opinion polls has shrunk as a result of the scandal. The scandal erupted in early March, when prosecutors arrested one of Mr. Ozawa's aides, who is accused of taking illegal donations from a construction company. 
Mr. Ozawa had tried to ride out the controversy, criticizing the prosecutors for what he called a politically motivated investigation, while stopping short of accusing them of helping the unpopular Liberal Democrats. But the scandal appears to have further tarnished Japanese voters' views of both parties ahead of a national election that must be held by Sept. 10.
By resigning, Mr. Ozawa, 66, was relinquishing what has been a nearly two-decade personal quest to end the Liberal Democrats' half-century hold on power. Before the scandal, that goal appeared within his grasp, as political stalemate and economic stagnation turned voters against Prime Minister Taro Aso.
''I hope by removing myself,'' Mr. Ozawa said, ''I can remove even the smallest negative points for the party and, above all, help it achieve a changing of governments. This is in the interest of the Japanese people, and is the mission of the Democratic Party.''
The resignation appears certain to throw Japan's already murky political situation into further confusion. The scandal has added to the widespread perception that political paralysis has hindered Japan from responding quickly to the global financial crisis, or from coming up with a formula for ending the nation's longer-term economic decline.
The resignation also leaves a void at the top of Japan's largest opposition party. While Mr. Ozawa was never seen as a populist or a gifted public speaker, his abilities as a political campaigner and fund-raiser were seen as the glue that held together the Democrats, a broad coalition that ranges from conservatives like Mr. Ozawa to former Socialists.
This wide spectrum of views has made it hard for the party to come up with a clear platform with which to challenge the Liberal Democrats. The Democratic Party has called for clipping the wings of the nation's powerful bureaucrats, protecting consumers over the interests of industry and showing more diplomatic independence from Washington, while not going so far as to end the security alliance with the United States.
During the news conference, Mr. Ozawa told reporters he would continue to serve as a legislator, and to work to end the Liberal Democrats' reign. But with persistent reports of Mr. Ozawa's failing health, many political analysts have wondered if a resignation will effectively end the career of one of Japan's most skilled political insiders.
Mr. Ozawa is known as one of the last of Japan's shadow shoguns, having learned the art of Japan's consensus-driven backroom politics as a young lawmaker from past prime ministers like Kakuei Tanaka, who invented the nation's current version of pork-barrel politics. Once anointed as a future leader of the Liberal Democrats, Mr. Ozawa bolted the party in 1993 to help organize the fledgling centrist opposition.
The current scandal proved damaging to Mr. Ozawa partly because it touched on one of his party's weakest points with voters: the concern that Mr. Ozawa was no cleaner than the Liberal Democrats he was trying to depose. It did not help Mr. Ozawa that after arresting his aide and raiding his office, prosecutors spent weeks leaking damaging accusations about him to Japanese news organizations.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); SCANDALS (91%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (70%); ARRESTS (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%)

PERSON: TARO ASO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%) JAPAN (95%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2011



424 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Learning the Secrets of Education

 BODY:
The Editor:
 Re ''The Harlem Miracle'' (column, May 8):
 While I applaud David Brooks for drawing attention to an effective inner-city school, I disagree with his assessment of why such schools are so effective. 
 The success of schools like the Harlem Children's Zone's Promise Academy is not because of the inculcation of ''middle-class values'' (when do middle-class kids ever learn to look at the person who is talking?). It is because of the teachers' and principal's high expectations of the students. 
 Robert Rosenthal's classic experiment in the 1960s showed that when teachers had high expectations for a group of randomly selected students in the classroom, those students excelled significantly over the school year regardless of how well the students did at the beginning of the school year. 
 We have empirical research that has proved the dramatic effect of teacher expectations for more than 40 years. When are we going to begin to take that knowledge seriously and act on it? 
 Niobe Way New York, May 8, 2009
 The writer is co-director of the Center for Research on Culture, Education and Development at New York University and president-elect of the Society for Research on Adolescence.
 To the Editor:
 It is great to see David Brooks highlight the remarkable achievements of the Harlem Children's Zone and the inspired leadership of its founder and president, Geoffrey Canada. But I disagree that these successes prove that the school-based reformers are right. 
 Mr. Canada and his colleagues realized that the community culture and conditions matter. He says he gets nowhere if a kid studies hard and then gets beaten up for it around the corner. 
 Mr. Canada recognizes that the broken social fabric created by concentrated poverty can undo school efforts, and the program works to support the whole family and improve the important community institutions poor kids need. 
 It is to be hoped that we can replicate this comprehensive program in poor urban and rural neighborhoods across the country, giving kids from poor families a real shot at the American Dream. 
 President Obama has said he values this work. Let's make it widely available -- the savings are enormous in both dreams realized and social problems avoided.
 Cynthia M. Duncan Durham, N.H., May 8, 2009
 The writer is the director of the Carsey Institute at the University of New Hampshire.
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks's column shines light on a model of true education reform, but it goes only halfway in describing Geoffrey Canada's true genius and doesn't mention another miracle in Harlem.
 In addition to serving young people, the Harlem Children's Zone also supports families because for children to succeed, we must address what happens outside of school as much as inside. Parenting classes, mentors and health services are offered in addition to algebra. 
 The communitywide approach where a school is the hub of holistic services is a recipe for success in Spanish Harlem as well. Here, the Vito Marcantonio School (P.S.-I.S. 50) works with organizations like the Children's Aid Society to help its students succeed. 
 The Harlem Children's Zone approach may be too costly to replicate in every neighborhood, but its framework, as evidenced by P.S.-I.S. 50, should serve as a model for at-risk communities everywhere.
 Alma J. Powell Chairwoman America's Promise Alliance Washington, May 11, 2009
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks is right in saying that schools can make a difference and produce big changes in a student's life, even amid larger economic inequalities. 
 It's a logical leap to then state that the key secret of successful schools lies in paying attention to children's attitudes. What if Harlem Children's Zone is successful primarily because it has trained teachers, with better resources than most inner-city schools?
 It's startling that urban youth remain hypervisible symbols of the ''culture of failure'' but are never quoted as the ultimate stakeholders in education policy debates. 
 Once we get numbers like those Mr. Brooks trumpets, we need to ask the students themselves about the causal links. The students my colleagues and I spoke with simmered with complex analyses of the ways in which school conditions prevented them from learning. They do not ask for administrators to abdicate the accountability talk, but to themselves walk the walk. 
 Celina Su New York, May 8, 2009
 The writer is a co-author of a book about black and Latino teenagers and education policy.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ERIC HANSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); FAMILY (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); WRITERS (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); US PRESIDENTS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009



425 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: 3 Banks Plan to Raise Cash to Repay Government

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Three banks that passed the government's ''stress tests'' announced large common stock offerings on Monday and said they would use the proceeds to repay money received under the government's bank bailout program. 
 U.S. Bancorp said it planned to raise $2.5 billion, Capital One Financial Corporation about $1.75 billion, and the BB&T Corporation $1.5 billion. Capital One said its offering will total 56 million shares.
 BB&T also said it would reduce its quarterly dividend 68 percent to 15 cents a share from 47 cents, saving $725 million a year, following 37 years of dividend increases. U.S. Bancorp also plans to sell medium-term notes.
 The three banks were among the 19 lenders to undergo government ''stress tests'' of their ability to weather a long and deep economic downturn, and were among the nine found not to need more capital.
 U.S. Bancorp took $6.6 billion from the government's Troubled Asset Relief Program, while Capital One took $3.55 billion and BB&T $3.1 billion.
 Hundreds of lenders took money from TARP, which was intended to spur lending and improve the economy.
 Yet many now view TARP as an albatross that imposes too many restrictions, including on executive pay, and suggests that recipients are desperate for capital.
 ''Rational, objective lending is one of the most important purposes of the banking system, and when you inject Congress and the administration into it, it effectively politicizes the process, which is not healthy,'' the BB&T chief executive Kelly King said Monday.
 Mr. King also faulted the stress tests, saying they unnecessarily created ''huge levels of anxiety and concern'' among investors. ''Regulators have always had the ability to assess the capital of institutions, and require more if they chose,'' he said.
 On Friday, Wells Fargo & Company and Morgan Stanley, each found to need more capital under the stress test, sold $8.6 billion and $4 billion of stock, respectively. Morgan Stanley also sold $4 billion of debt.
 Goldman Sachs & Company and Morgan Stanley are arranging the U.S. Bancorp stock offering. Barclays Capital is arranging the Capital One stock offering. Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley are arranging the BB&T stock offering.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMON STOCK (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); DEBT NOTES (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); BANK FAILURES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (51%)

COMPANY: BB&T CORP (94%); U S BANCORP (93%); CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (85%); WELLS FARGO & CO (82%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (52%)

TICKER: BBT (NYSE) (94%); USB (NYSE) (93%); COF (NYSE) (85%); WFC (NYSE) (82%); GS (NYSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (94%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (94%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: KELLY S KING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009



426 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 377 words

 BODY:
BANKS THAT PREFER BOREDOM Community banks have hardly suffered from the credit crisis, in part because the industry prefers its business to be boring -- and safe. As one bank executive in Indiana said, ''If banking gets exciting, there is something wrong with it.'' 
 PIRACY SPREADS TO BOOKS There has long been digital piracy of movies and music, but now there is a growing problem with the pirating of books. [A1.]
 TRYING TO SAVE THEIR COMPANY Workers at the men's clothing maker Hartmarx -- famous for its brands and for making President Obama's inauguration tuxedo and topcoat -- are hoping to save their jobs and start a national movement by pressuring the bankrupt company's main creditor to approve a sale that would keep the company alive. [B1.]
 NURSE IS IN AISLE 12 Hospitals are now entering clinic partnerships not only with drug retailers, but with grocers, too. [B1.]
 Wal-Mart is rebuilding its in-store clinics, in partnership with hospitals. [B4.]
 BETTING ON DIAMONDS The Russians are hoarding diamonds as they wait out a depressed market. [B1.] 
 SOLVING SHORTFALLS The Treasury Department is considering several options to raise money after new estimates have raised the budget deficit by $90 billion and lowered the income from higher federal taxes on the richest Americans by $50 billion. [B1.] 
 HUNTSMAN WINS A ROUND A judge in Texas has allowed a suit against Deutsche Bank and Credit Suisse by the chemical maker Huntsman over two failed mergers to go forward. [B7.]
 SLOWING EXPANSION FOR HOTELS Tight credit markets and declining demand for rooms are inhibiting the expansion plans of many hotels. [B6.]
 VIRTUES OF TELECONFERENCING Teleconferencing has its advantages, but sometimes you simply must resort to air travel. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [B6.]
 PROFIT-TAKING AND ANGST Wall Street was down as investors took profits and some wondered when the economy would begin growing again. [B10.] 
 G.M. WON'T SWEETEN THE POTGeneral Motors does not plan to raise its debt exchange offer to bondholders, even though its failure would most likely force the automaker to file for bankruptcy. [B3.] 
 ART, THE NEW HEDGE Rich art investors seem to be buying art now as a hedge against future inflation. Will that work? Breaking Views. [B2.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (86%); COMMUNITY BANKS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); BUDGETS (78%); BONDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); RETAILERS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); GARMENT WORKERS (75%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); FUNDRAISING (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (70%); APPAREL MFG (70%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); MEN'S APPAREL MFG (70%); APPROVALS (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); JUDGES (64%); ART COLLECTING (60%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (55%); CHEMICALS (50%); CHEMICALS MFG (50%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (90%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (59%); HMX LLC (57%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (90%); CS (NYSE) (90%); DEUT (JSE) (59%); DBK (FRA) (59%); DBK (BIT) (59%); DBETN (JSE) (59%); DBA (ASX) (59%); DB (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (59%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (59%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (59%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2337 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' SUITS, SKIRTS, & COATS (57%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (57%); SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009



427 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Expansion Plans Get Squeezed

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
When NYLO Hotels unveiled its loft-style hotel brand in 2005, the plan was to have more than 50 properties open by 2010. Ambitions were so high that the company announced another brand, XP by NYLO Hotels, in early 2008.
 But so far, just two NYLO hotels have opened their doors to guests -- in Plano, Tex., and Warwick, R.I. -- with a third scheduled to open in a community in Irving, Tex., in late June. 
 NYLO is certainly not the only fledgling hotel brand struggling amidst the recession. Besides the decline in travel, the new brands have been particularly hit by the drying up of credit. NYLO's troubles were compounded when its equity partner, Lehman Brothers, declared bankruptcy last September.
 According to Bjorn Hanson, who teaches hospitality at New York University, hotel companies introduced 42 new brands in the last four years, a big surge that has been drastically scaled back.
 ''Whether they were announced or internal goals -- like 500 hotels within five years -- all of those targets have been ignored or so reduced,'' Mr. Hanson said. ''They're just trying to get some properties up and running.''
 NYLO is a good example of that kind of stake-in-the-ground effort. 
 ''Our plan was always to grow by franchising,'' said John Russell, NYLO's chief executive. ''We would do the first three to five hotels ourselves, then have a franchise platform to be able to grow aggressively.''
 Although Mr. Russell said NYLO had more than 40 franchises ''in some form of development or negotiation,'' he acknowledged that the company would be lucky to have 30 hotels open by the end of 2011.
 ''It's going to be slow because right now debt financing is almost nonexistent,'' he said, though he was optimistic about the prospects for the XP brand, which is known as a select-service hotel, meaning it lacks some amenities, like a 24-hour restaurant. Mr. Russell estimated that an XP hotel would cost $12 million for a developer to build, versus $23 million for a full-service NYLO Hotel.
 The trouble is, many other new brands are competing in that same select-service niche, many hoping to making the boutique hotel concept more affordable. Some of those brands have the advantage of operating under the umbrella of a larger chain -- an important factor in this stormy weather.
 Hotel Indigo, for instance, introduced by the InterContinental Hotels Group in 2004, now has 26 properties, with 60 more in various stages of development. 
 ''We have a large existing base of customers who are familiar with InterContinental,'' said Janis Cannon, the company's vice president for global brand management, noting that InterContinental's loyalty program had 40 million members.
 ''It's easy for us to reach out to that membership about a new hotel,'' she said. 
 Another advantage she cited was that about half of Hotel Indigo properties were conversions rather than new construction, so further growth could come through independent hotels seeking to be part of a brand, or residential buildings being converted into hotels.
 But even brands started by big hotel chains have run up against the realities of tight credit markets and shrinking demand for rooms.
 Starwood's midprice Aloft chain, announced with big ambitions in 2005, initially expected to have 500 properties operating worldwide by 2012; there are 25 open so far. Another new Starwood brand, Element Hotels, planned to have more than 15 locations operating by 2009; three have opened their doors. 
 ''Our initial forecasts were aggressive, and they were based on really great times,'' said Brian McGuinness, Starwood's senior vice president for specialty-select brands. ''The good news is we're launching new brands into the select-serve and extended-stay markets, which tend to do very well in a challenging economy.''
 Another potential bright spot for Starwood is that Hilton has suspended work on its new Denizen brand, a competitor to W Hotels that was unveiled earlier this year. Starwood is suing Hilton and two former Starwood employees recruited by Hilton to develop the Denizen brand, alleging that they stole proprietary information from Starwood and used it to expedite plans for Denizen. 
 That could also be good news for Marriott Hotels and Resorts, which is working on its own brand, Edition, with Ian Schrager, one of the originators of the boutique hotel trend.
 According to John Wolf, a Marriott spokesman, the company has signed five management agreements for Edition hotels in Bangkok, Barcelona, Istanbul, Mexico City and Waikiki, Hawaii, one of which will be the first to open in 2010.
 Robert Mandelbaum, director of research information services for PKF Hospitality Research, said he did not expect a lot of groundbreaking in the next year or so. But that might bode well for hotel balance sheets in later years. 
 ''One of the things hotels are hopeful about is there should be an actual lack of new supply coming online during a period of economic recovery,'' Mr. Mandelbaum said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NYLO Hotels has opened just two hotels, including this one in Warwick, R.I., near Providence.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (90%); FRANCHISING (78%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (78%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS GROUP PLC (50%)

TICKER: IHG (NYSE) (50%); IHG (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (50%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (72%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009



428 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: We're Dull, Small Banks Say, And Have Profit to Show for It

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS 

 BODY:
It's unlikely that any group of professionals is happier to highlight the dullness of their work than small-town bankers. 
 At a recent conference held here by the Indiana Bankers Association, attendees said it over and over: our business is plodding and boring and we would not have it any other way.
 ''Banking should not be exciting,'' said Clay W. Ewing, president of retail financial services at German American Bancorp, a community bank in Jasper. ''If banking gets exciting, there is something wrong with it.''
 It is an ethos squarely at odds with the risk-addicted style of megabanks, like Citigroup and Bank of America, that trafficked in the subprime mortgages and complex financial products that helped drive the country into the grimmest recession in decades. 
 But to the deep chagrin of Mr. Ewing and others at the conference, the public, politicians and the media have made little distinction between the stress-tested behemoths and the 7,630 community banks across the country -- the vast majority of which have watched the crisis like bystanders at a 10-car pileup.
 As a result, community bankers have felt compelled in recent months to mount public relations campaigns to emphasize their fiscal health and in some cases to announce they rejected Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, funds. Some have held cookouts, others have held ''reassurance'' meetings in their lobbies, hoping to educate customers and prevent panics. All are dealing with banker jokes and the occasional wisecrack.
 ''I was on vacation in California and this guy I had just met said, 'So, traveling on that bailout money, huh?' '' said Blake Heid, of First Option Bank in Paola, Kan., which didn't take any bailout money. ''I didn't find that very amusing.''
 Though they greatly outnumber the national and regional banks, community banks have barely registered in any of the fallout from the credit crisis, in part because they hold less than 10 percent of the $13.8 trillion in bank assets nationwide. 
 The 50 or so bank failures have been largely clustered in a few states, like Florida, Arizona and California, where the bursting housing bubble had the greatest impact.
 In states like Indiana, where property values never soared, community banks have been rock solid. The last failure in the state was in 1992.
 To spend time with these Indiana community bankers is to step into an alternate universe, where everything sounds a little strange because it makes perfect sense. You hear things like, ''If you don't understand the risk you're taking, don't take it.'' And, ''We want to be around for decades, so we're not focused on the next quarter.''
 Forget ''too big to fail.'' These banks consider themselves too small to risk embarrassment. They are run by people who grew up in the towns where they work, and their main fear is getting into a financial jam that will shame them in the eyes of their neighbors. 
 The steep profits earned by national banks didn't turn their heads in the last decade because they were inherently skeptical of double-digit growth rates.
 ''We like a nice, gentle, upward slope,'' said Donald E. Goetz, the president of DeMotte State Bank, an 11-branch operation in the northwest part of Indiana.
 ''This kind of growth, like you see in the stock market'' -- Mr. Goetz ran his hand through the air, tracing the shape of a mountain range -- ''that doesn't interest us.''
 One recent morning Mr. Goetz gave a tour of his bank, which included a bulletin board with fliers for a fire department fish fry and the Kankakee Valley Women's Club flower sale. 
 There is a lot of bric-a-brac in his wood-paneled office and a Thomas Kinkade painting of a green-gabled stone house after a snow fall, titled the ''Olde Porterfield Gift Shoppe.''
 ''There is one set of footprints, going in,'' he said, pointing to the painting. ''That's how we feel as a business sometime. We're walking alone.''
 Mr. Goetz, who was wearing a tie and a short-sleeve shirt, started as a teller at DeMotte right after he graduated from college in 1976, and he's been president since 1988. He is a stolid guy who, when asked what he does for fun, offered two words: ''Yard work.''
 He sounds somewhat aggrieved. His bank, which opened in 1917, didn't make any subprime loans, nor did it take any bailout money. Even when bank stocks were soaring, not one of his 246 shareholders needled him to earn more than the 3 to 4 percent dividend that DeMotte has generated for years.
 Still, he's had to train employees in the art of assuaging the fears of jittery customers. He programmed the blinking signs outside his branches to read ''Safe, Strong, Secure.''
 Despite these efforts, he's fielded some customer calls at night, to his home. In rare cases, people withdrew their savings.
 ''We had three or four people panic,'' he said. ''A couple of them said, 'It's not the bank. We just don't trust the government.' And I told them, 'If the government fails, the money you're taking out of this bank won't be worth anything.' ''
 Mr. Goetz, like a lot of his competitors, is livid about the mortgage shenanigans born of the securitization craze. But he thinks his public relations problem had many authors.
 ''The media, Congress, the president, everyone just keeps saying 'the banks, the banks, the banks,' like we're all the same thing,'' he said. ''Well, we're not all the same thing.''
 Explaining that distinction has been especially challenging for community banks that signed up for TARP funds, which initially were pitched by the government as a way to shore up healthy banks. Only later, after the American International Group bonus fiasco, community bankers say, did the TARP acquire a stigma.
 ''We heard a lot of smart-alecky comments,'' said James C. Latta, president of the Idaho Banking Company in Boise, Idaho, which took $6.9 million in TARP funds. ''A lot of 'Wish I had a bailout.' '' 
 At DeMotte, Mr. Goetz is bracing for a steep increase in a crucial overhead cost: the bill from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which is basically an insurance fund underwritten by banks. 
 Last year, DeMotte paid $42,000 into the fund. This year, because of failures in other parts of the country and particularly among national banks, that sum will rise to $500,000 or more.
 ''Isn't that the American way?'' he says, folding his arms. ''Whoever is left standing, whoever was prudent, is always the one who has to pick up the pieces.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At a recent conference of the Indiana Bankers Association, attendees proudly called their business plodding and boring.(PHOTOGRAPH BY A. J. MAST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); COMMUNITY BANKS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); LOBBYING (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%); HOUSING MARKET (68%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (68%); HOUSING BUBBLE (66%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (54%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (52%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); GERMAN AMERICAN BANCORP INC (57%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); GABC (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (78%) INDIANA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009



429 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Storefronts Empty Out, Ads Arrive

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Almost every category of advertising is declining precipitously in this economy, but there is one that is thriving.
 Taking advantage of all the abandoned retail spaces in urban areas, marketers are leasing them at cut-rate prices and filling them with their ads.
 At first, advertisers saw storefront advertising as a poor man's billboard -- that is, a bad thing. Now, they see it as a poor man's billboard -- that is, brilliantly frugal. 
 Ads for Intel that went up on Monday capitalized on the bankruptcies of stores like the Disney Store, Domain Home and Comp- USA, filling their former shops with digital billboards. 
 Elsewhere, barren-looking store windows have been plastered over by ads for Nestea, Snickers, Delta Air Lines and Conservation International.
 ''All you have to do is walk out the door for lunch and notice the number of vacant storefronts -- and they tend to be in prime areas, in major thoroughfares, and they're unused space -- so why not get in there and put a message in there?'' said Peter Sherman, the managing director of BBDO West, San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group.
 BBDO West is running ads for Conservation International in storefronts in New York, San Francisco and Berkeley. Advertisers can rent the storefronts for a fraction of what landlords charge retailers. 
 Mr. Sherman is paying an average of $500 for three-month stints in prime locations. (An outdoor billboard in comparable spots would cost $50,000, he said.) 
 In some cases, he said, the landlords even donated space, both because they liked Conservation International's environmental message, and because it is more appealing to have something in their windows other than dust and grime.
 ''It looks better for something to be going on in the storefront,'' Mr. Sherman said. ''If that something is a positive message regarding the environment, that's a win for both sides.'' 
 The retail vacancy rate rose to 11.2 percent in the first quarter, the highest it has been since the early 1990s, according to CBRE Econometric Advisors, a unit of the CB Richard Ellis Group. And some real estate owners say an ad helps, literally, cover up the problem.
 ''The way I look at it, when somebody moves out of a space it looks terrible,'' said William Walther, the president of Granite Companies Asset Management, which owns several buildings in Manhattan. ''Retail use is animated, because you see all the things that are in the space and people are in the space, and coming and going. When people move out, it's just a big, vacant room and not very attractive,'' he said.
 Though advertisers pay only 10 to 15 percent of what a retailer would, Mr. Walther says he will take that. ''We still have taxes, we have insurance, we have electricity that we have to pay on the property,'' he said. ''The market started to change, so now we look at it as, 'When's the next campaign, fellas?' '' 
 Storefront advertisers say that since the downturn, real estate owners have become eager to lease their space, making ads in prominent spots more common.
 Ray Lee, the managing director of real estate at Inwindow Outdoor, a company that creates storefront advertisements, used to have to court real estate owners, but now they are calling him, he said.
 ''In the last year and a half, it's been much easier to acquire locations,'' Mr. Lee said. ''They're realizing the money's important, of course, and they're realizing they don't want to be sitting on vacant spaces anymore -- they want to be more ambitious in terms of covering their windows.''
 Inwindow Outdoor executives said the company had had record revenue in the last two quarters. And Inwindow's ads are running in highly trafficked places. A former high-end furniture store in Greenwich Village in Manhattan is now an ad for Snickers. A Delta ad covers the windows of a former restaurant in Midtown Manhattan. 
 A group of Intel ads that began running Monday has gotten particularly good placement because of other companies' misfortune: ads are running at several sites where the former tenant declared bankruptcy. 
 These include the Disney Store in San Francisco (its operator, Hoop Holdings, filed for bankruptcy last year), a CompUSA in Chicago (the company filed for bankruptcy in 2007 and is operating under a new owner), and a former Domain Home store in the Flatiron district of Manhattan (Domain filed for bankruptcy in 2008).
 ''We were able to time the market well to find a couple even better locations than what we originally anticipated,'' said Jamie Eaton, group strategy director at OMD, the media-buying unit of the Omnicom Group, which advised Intel on its strategy. ''As the companies make a transition, the great thing for the landscape is you're able to cover up something that may have been a visual sore point.''
 Inwindow has also changed the storefront ads so they are more than just posters hanging inside a store. It now designs custom vinyl coverings that adhere to a store's brick and glass, and are cut to fit over doors, ledges and other architectural elements. 
 The Snickers ad is composed of several panels that fit over the building's panes of glass, while an ad for Nestea is plastered over both the windows and the doors of a former shop in Midtown Manhattan, making it look more like a street-level billboard than abandoned retail space. 
 The potential is even bigger when marketers incorporate technology, said Steve Birnhak, the chief executive of Inwindow Outdoor. ''If you look at vacant real estate as a shell, it's the perfect environment to safehouse any technology you want that lives within the confines of that building,'' he said. 
 The Intel ads house screens displaying slightly time-delayed text messages from passers-by about their hopes for the future. And for ''Coraline,'' a fantasy movie, Inwindow created holograms in dark retail spaces. ''Children would appear out of thin air in an environment that looked to be 20 feet deep, and float up to the window,'' he said. 
 For Mr. Sherman, the storefronts he used for Conservation International did double duty. They were cheap, centrally located and perfectly matched his message, which compared destruction of the environment to the destruction of the economy. The windows carried messages like ''Our shopping districts are starting to look as barren as our rain forests'' and ''Ignore climate change and a lot more than our shops will be going under.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Nestea ad in the window of a vacant store in New York.(PHOTOGRAPH BY INWINDOW OUTDOOR)
Landlords salvage revenue from closed stores by renting space for ads like Intel's in New York.(PHOTOGRAPH BY INWINDOW OUTDOOR)
 Some storefront messages are sponsored by organizations, like this one by Conservation International, in Berkeley, Calif.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BBDO WEST)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); CBRE GROUP INC (81%); INTEL CORP (57%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (56%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (84%); CBG (NYSE) (81%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); DAL (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (81%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (81%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009



430 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Hospitals, Once Leery, Are Setting Up Clinics In Stores and Markets

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
As walk-in clinics at stores like CVS and Wal-Mart offer convenient alternatives to doctors' offices and hospital emergency rooms, some hospitals are fighting back -- with walk-in clinics at some of those same retailers. 
 Around the country, hospitals are now affiliated with more than 25 Wal-Mart clinics. The Cleveland Clinic has lent its name and backup services to a string of CVS drugstore clinics in northeastern Ohio. And the Mayo Clinic is in the game, operating one Express Care clinic at a supermarket in Rochester, Minn., and a second one across town at a shopping mall. 
 Many primary-care doctors still denigrate the retail clinics as cheap, unworthy competitors. But hospitals see the clinics as a way to reach more patients and expand their business. And they argue that as President Obama and Congress warn of a shortage of primary-care physicians, the hospital-linked retail clinics are filling a vital public need. 
 The walk-in centers help clear hospital emergency rooms of people seeking only basic medical care, like antibiotics for strep throat. But in contrast to E.R.'s, which in many states cannot legally turn away those unable to pay, the retail clinics typically serve only patients with insurance or money. 
 And even if $77 throat cultures or $30 physicals do not represent a vast new source of profit for hospitals, retail clinics can play a marketing role, helping establish relationships with customers who may eventually need more lucrative in-hospital care. 
 Consumers who use the clinics are often ''exactly the customers that hospitals want -- women of child-bearing age,'' said Margaret Laws, a policy expert at the California Health Care Foundation. ''The hospitals want to deliver babies,'' she said.
 The idea of retail clinics took root about four years ago, and more than 1,000 are now operating around the country in drugstores, supermarkets and big-box discounters. But in the early going, few were linked to hospitals or medical centers. Now, though, about 1 in 10 has a hospital connection, according to Merchant Medicine News, an online newsletter for the clinic industry. And many more are planned. 
 Wal-Mart, for instance, which opened its 26th hospital-connected clinic last week in Republic, Mo., in the Ozarks, says it will add dozens more in the coming months. Its hospital partners include the Christus Medical Group, in Texas; the Aurora Health System, in Wisconsin, and CoxHealth in Missouri. 
 The Mayo Clinic, the largest private employer in Minnesota, says it opened its clinics after hearing employees and patients say they wanted more convenient treatment for minor medical problems. 
 ''We think of ourselves as a new model of care; we meet our patients at least halfway,'' said Dr. David Herman, a Mayo executive who supervises the two retail clinics -- along with six Mayo primary-care doctors' offices that are now open late and on weekends. 
 He said hospital and health care systems like Mayo should consider demand for walk-in clinics a sign that ''maybe our primary-care practices in general are not as convenient and transparent as our patients want them to be.'' 
 Typically staffed by physician assistants or nurse practitioners, often supervised remotely by doctors, the hospital retail clinics can operate at relatively low cost compared with primary-care doctors' offices or emergency rooms. The lower fees make them especially attractive right now, as an estimated 45 million to 50 million people in this country lack insurance, and the ranks of the unemployed are growing by the month.
 According to a recent survey by Harris Interactive, 11 percent of adults said they or someone in their immediate family had used a store clinic in the last 10 months, up from 7 percent a year earlier. 
 ''The economics in the health system are broken,'' said Dr. Brian Nester, a senior vice president at the Lehigh Valley Health Network, part of a three-hospital system in Allentown, Pa., and nearby Bethlehem. ''We need to find out how clinics with nurse practitioners and physicians assistants will fit in.''
 Lehigh Valley Health, in a collaboration with a big regional medical provider, Geisinger Clinic, operates retail clinics in two supermarkets. 
 One recent afternoon, Melissa Marrero, 33, a social worker, and her husband Magdiel, 32, a security guard, walked in without an appointment to the King's Market clinic in an Allentown mall. The Marreros, who are uninsured, needed physicals for their application to become foster parents. The clinic charges $30 for a physical. 
 ''It was great -- fast service and real convenient,'' Ms. Marrero said afterward. 
 Janelle Sharma, the nurse practitioner in charge, said that more than one-third of the clinic's patients were uninsured. 
 For several years the doctors affiliated with Lehigh Valley Health opposed the hospital's plan to start a supermarket clinic. The physicians relented after the Geisinger version showed up on their turf and Lehigh Valley Health promised that patients treated in stores would be urged to follow up with a local doctor.
 Dr. Will Miller, the chairman of family medicine doctors with practicing privileges at Lehigh Valley Health's hospital in Allentown, said he still opposed the clinics. They work against the ideal of a primary-care doctor's office that gets to know a patient's medical needs and condition over time and coordinates his or her care, he said. 
 Dr. John VanBrakle, the hospital's chairman of pediatrics, noted that the American Academy of Pediatrics, a professional organization, opposed the clinics for the same reason.
 In some ways, the resistance of primary-care doctors might be more about principle than practice. As policy makers in Washington bemoan the shortage of such physicians, it may be difficult for doctors in many parts of the country to persuasively argue that the retail clinics pose serious competition. 
 Dr. VanBrakle said local pediatricians in the Lehigh Valley had not, in fact, noticed the retail clinic's having any impact on their practices. ''The vast majority don't feel very strongly about it one way or the other,'' he said. 
 Dr. Herman, of Mayo, says that rather than buck the trend, primary-care doctors should learn from it. He predicts that small groups of primary-care doctors around the country will begin working with hospitals to offer some of the same inducements as store clinics -- like convenient locations and more consumer-friendly office hours, including periods of walk-in care requiring no appointment. 
 The primary-care doctors, he said, should try to beat the store clinics at their own game. As for the ones that lack a hospital connection, ''It will make it more difficult for them,'' Dr. Herman said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At a health clinic in the King's Market in Allentown, Pa., Fred Bartholomew was seen by Janelle Sharma, a nurse practitioner.
 The clinic at the King's Market is run by two regional medical providers, Lehigh Valley Health Network and Geisinger Clinic.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (92%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (90%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); RETAILERS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); ANTIBIOTICS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); BACTERIA (72%); CHILDREN (69%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (66%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (63%)

ORGANIZATION: MAYO CLINIC (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); ROCHESTER, MN, USA (77%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (59%) OHIO, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009



431 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; BASICS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: A Hit In School, Maggots And All

BYLINE: By NATALIE ANGIER

DATELINE: NEW ROCHELLE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
It's a sight that might make your skin crawl -- if the chicken weren't already doing it for you.
 Projected onto the classroom screen was live-action footage of putrefying poultry, the image blown up to festively pulsating proportions by way of a digital microscope. And lively the action was: maggots of all ages and body-mass indexes wriggled across the slick carnal landscape, some newly hatched and ravenous, other older ones on the verge of pupating, looking as plump and pompous as earthworms. 
 But did the students in Scott Rubins's advanced forensic science class at New Rochelle High School shriek or go ''Ewww gross'' or even so much as wrinkle their noses with revulsion? Not over their dead bodies. For one thing, Mr. Rubins doesn't tolerate squeamish outbursts in the classroom. ''No one is allowed to react,'' he said. ''If you're reacting, you won't be able to learn.'' 
 For another, the students were too busy furiously waving their hands in the air, begging to be chosen as the day's evidence collectors. Far from being disgusted by the maggot-cam feed, they were desperate for the chance to snap on a pair of disposable rubber gloves and retrieve the rest of the decomposing chicken that Mr. Rubins had deposited outside a few days earlier. They wanted to pick up the slimy three-and-a-half-pound ex-bird and flip it this way and that, to lift the wings and the legs and find the dark, warm crevices where flies in training like to hide. 
 Nothing could keep the students from systematically probing the fetid fare. Quinton Witherspoon, a 16-year-old junior, had recently broken his foot playing baseball, but he hopped over on crutches to scrape a stick along the chicken's skin for samples. Ryan Lefkowitz, a 17-year-old senior, exulted: ''I love this class! Where else do you get the chance to hold maggots?'' 
 Many people fret these days about the supposedly feeble state of science education in America and how kids just don't like science and we'd better do something quick or we'll be flattened by the rising technocracies in Asia and Europe. Yet here at New Rochelle, among the largest and most ethnically and economically diverse high schools in New York if not the nation, one phylum of science class has proved a runaway success: forensic science, the application of science to solving crimes. Since the program was started 15 years ago, demand has waxed so strong that today the school offers seven different forensic classes, three of them so advanced that the students receive college credits from Syracuse University. ''Forensic science is our most popular elective hands down,'' said Joyce Kent, head of the school's science department. 
 And though the forensic menu at New Rochelle is unusually extensive, schools everywhere are capitalizing on the subject's sex appeal to inspire respect for the power of the scientific mind-set generally. According to an informal survey of 285 high school and middle school teachers conducted in 2007 by the National Science Teachers Association, 75 percent replied yes when asked, ''Do you or other teachers in your district use forensic investigation in the science classroom?'' A third of the respondents said the subject was woven into the regular science curriculum, a quarter listed forensics as a stand-alone course at their school, and one-fifth replied, we do both. Bring out your dead!
 Francis Eberle, executive director of the association, said that the thanato mania showed no sign of abating. At the organization's annual conference in 2006, 61 teachers gave presentations on the value of forensic science in the classroom; for last year's meeting, that figure rose to 98. 
 Forensic science wasn't always an easy sell. When Ms. Kent started the New Rochelle program, nobody knew what it was. ''I went around trying to enlist students, saying, 'Quincy,' how many of you have ever watched 'Quincy'?'' she said, referring to the television series about a medical examiner played by Jack Klugman. Now it's impossible to escape airwave forensics, and student interest has soared accordingly. 
 ''I went through one week's worth of TV listings and found 35 to 40 shows on forensic science,'' Mr. Rubins said. '' 'Law and Order,' 'C.S.I.,' the reality shows -- the media is insane with it.''
 Yet one of the first things that Mr. Rubins points out in his classes is how boneheaded a lot of those hit shows can be. Three students in the advanced course excitedly rattled off to me the many gaffes and sloppy techniques they had seen on TV: failing to use gloves, improper bagging of evidence, letting the neighbors stampede through the crime scene and, worst of all, solving crimes tidily in a matter of hours or days while using techniques that would take weeks or months. ''It's like magic,'' Mr. Rubins said. ''The kids come in as a raw product, not knowing or noticing anything, and then one day, they watch something on the news, and they come in and tell me, I think the police in the background were doing it wrong. All of a sudden, they get it.''
 They also end up getting a lot of serious science without necessarily realizing it. ''We do chemistry while studying soil composition, toxicology, all the different tests for drugs,'' said Andrea Schwach, who teaches two of the New Rochelle forensic classes. There are forays into biology and anatomy: the biology of blood, hair and skin, how fingerprints form, and how DNA can be extracted from the tiniest personal remains. Students learn how to distinguish a healthy liver and set of lungs from the organs of an alcoholic or a smoker, and how to analyze stomach contents and figure out what a victim ate and how long ago. Let's not forget forensic entomology, those magnificent maggots, and how a sampling of detritus recyclers can help estimate the breadth of a victim's P.M.I. -- post mortem interval. Physics comes up in studying ballistics and explosives, or when students must reconstruct a car crash or make sense of blood spatters. ''They have to understand how force affects spray angle,'' Ms. Schwach said. ''There's a lot of math involved in that as well.'' 
 Forensic science also emphasizes what scientists complain is too often lacking in standard science education: hands-on lab work. The hands may be gloved, but they're out in the world, gathering and annotating evidence, disinterring fish bones, setting fire to different fabrics to see exactly how they burn, tracing bullet grooves, making casts of shoe imprints using dental stone, studying teeth from the victims of the World Trade Center attack and realizing, with a shock of sadness, that the ivory relics in their hands belonged to mouths that talked and smiled and violently died.
 For the final exam, the students have an hour to make sense of a crime scene mocked up in the woods with the help of the New Rochelle police. Here the core message of the semester is brutally distilled: that science, like life and its end, can be messy and uncertain, that you must notice what others overlook, and that if you collect and bag your evidence but fail to seal it, your teacher will dump your hard work in the trash. Remember, you're a forensic scientist. You're not just playing one on TV.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: UNEARTHING CLUES: A squirrel carcass was among the items placed on the grounds at New Rochelle High School for students to dig up and examine in their forensic class. Any squeamish reactions? Not allowed.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FORENSICS (89%); POULTRY (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); BONE FRACTURES (66%); BASEBALL (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (51%); ASIA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009



432 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Terrorism Is Not Priority For Pakistanis, Poll Finds

BYLINE: By SALMAN MASOOD; Alan Cowell contributed reporting from Paris.

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
As the Pakistani military pressed its campaign to root out Taliban militants from three districts northwest of the capital, a recent poll showed that an overwhelming majority of Pakistanis did not consider terrorism to be the most important issue facing the country, but instead ranked the economy at the top. 
 The poll was released Monday by the International Republican Institute, a nonprofit group based in Washington that is affiliated with the Republican Party and promotes democracy abroad. The survey also showed that 81 percent of the respondents said they thought that the country was headed in the wrong direction. 
 Most blamed President Asif Ali Zardari, and his approval rating was just 19 percent. But an overwhelming majority still said they preferred an unstable democracy to a military dictatorship.
 The poll was taken in March before the Taliban flooded into neighboring districts from their stronghold in the Swat Valley, and before the government opened its campaign to push the militants back. It clearly shows the challenges facing the government as it tries to mobilize Pakistanis behind its fight, particularly as the civilian toll of the campaign widens.
 Pakistanis have long been reluctant to take on the Taliban, who are fellow Muslims and Pakistanis. The poll, for instance, revealed strong support for the February peace agreement with the Taliban in Swat. Eighty percent said they supported the pact, and 74 percent said they thought the deal would bring peace to the region.
 That deal has now fallen apart, with the Taliban and the government blaming each other for its breakdown. 
 Rehman Malik, Pakistan's interior minister, said 700 militants were killed in the last four days of intense fighting -- a much higher figure than the 140 or so reported by the military -- along with 22 government soldiers. While it is clear that the fighting has been heavy, none of the casualty claims could be verified because aid agencies and journalists were barred from the conflict areas.
 In the past 12 days, more than 360,000 civilians have registered with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees as having been displaced by the fighting, said the office, based in Geneva. 
 The figure brought to more than 900,000 the number of people registered as uprooted in successive waves of fighting in Pakistan since August, William Spindler, a spokesman for the refugee office, said in a telephone interview.
 Mr. Malik vowed that the military offensive would continue until the militants were crushed. ''The operation will continue until the last Talib,'' Mr. Malik said, using the singular form of the word Taliban. 
 Pakistan began the offensive under strong American pressure to reverse advances toward the capital by the Taliban, after the militants entered Buner and Dir, districts adjoining Swat. 
 The survey pointed to a mixed picture for the government and the United States in trying to draw Pakistanis to their side in taking on extremism. 
 Most saw economic issues as the nation's most pressing problems, with only 10 percent saying terrorism, but 69 percent agreed that having the Taliban and Al Qaeda operate in Pakistan was a serious problem. 
 Forty-five percent said they supported fighting the extremists in the tribal areas and the North-West Frontier Province, a high for the poll. 
 The survey also showed signs of an increase in the willingness of Pakistanis to cooperate with the United States against extremism, with the number hitting 37 percent from a low of 9 percent in January 2008. 
 Seventy-four percent agreed that religious extremism was a serious problem in Pakistan. But 56 percent said they would back Taliban demands to extend Islamic law to other parts of the country, including some major cities.
 ''The most striking thing about the survey is that while 81 percent feel the country is headed in the wrong direction, 77 percent say they wanted to live in a democratic setup,'' said Thomas E. Garrett, regional program director for the Middle East and North Africa for the International Republican Institute. ''I think it is quite an amazing number.''
 Mr. Garrett said in a telephone interview that he was not surprised that economic issues took precedence over terrorism. He said that result was consistent with earlier polls by the institute. 
 The survey was conducted from March 7 to 30, with 3,500 men and women throughout Pakistan. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus two percentage points.
 President Zardari's low approval ratings were consistent with an earlier poll by the institute. Asked which leader could most effectively handle Pakistan's problems, 55 percent chose Nawaz Sharif, the opposition leader who served twice as prime minister, while just 9 percent said Mr. Zardari. 
 PESHAWAR, Pakistan(Agence France-Presse) -- A drone suspected to have been controlled by the United States fired two missiles into a compound in a remote Pakistan tribal area near the Afghan border and killed up to eight militants on Tuesday, security officials said.
 :''It was a drone strike on a compound, where militants used to stay before crossing the border or after coming back from Afghanistan. Eight militants were killed,'' said one Pakistani security official on condition of anonymity.
 A top security official said two missiles were fired killing seven to eight militants around 25 kilometres (16 miles) from Wana towards the Afghan border.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A bomb victim in Peshawar, Pakistan. A poll taken in March showed huge support for a February peace deal with the Taliban, which has since fallen apart as the militants have flooded into neighboring districts from their stronghold in the Swat Valley.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FAISAL MAHMOOD/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); TALIBAN (92%); TERRORISM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); REFUGEES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); DISPLACED PERSONS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (62%); RELIGION (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL REPUBLICAN INSTITUTE (57%)

PERSON: ASIF ALI ZARDARI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009



433 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: As Boom Town Busts, a Brief Political Movement Fades Away

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: DONNELLY, Idaho 

 BODY:
When they built the grand resort and the outsiders arrived with their snow skis and sand wedges, there was tension in this town of 138. Another stunning mountain outpost in the West was going the way stunning mountain outposts in the West always seemed to go: upscale and out of reach. 
 By late 2007, newcomers had even taken control of City Hall. Yet it was not the second-home set at the new Tamarack Resort who rose to political power. It was the young workers who had moved to town to serve them: the guy who drove the airport shuttle, the cook at the lodge, the backcountry ski guide. 
 Now the city's political leadership is a question mark. When financial troubles forced the resort to shut down in March, three of the top five elected officials, including the mayor, were laid off from their jobs at Tamarack; a fourth, a member of the Town Council who builds high-end houses, is all but out of work. 
 Even as they hope Tamarack will reopen one day, some of the elected officials have been forced to look for jobs in other cities and states, potentially ending their ability to hold office.
 ''We want to stick around, obviously, but family comes first,'' said the mayor, Brad Backus, 33, a former ski instructor who said he was considering a move to Washington to work for the summer. ''If it means we can't provide for our family by staying in the valley, we're going to have to make some tough decisions.''
 The newcomers' ascent to power had had the feel of a movement, although a really small one. Mr. Backus and a handful of friends and co-workers at Tamarack scraped together enough to buy modest houses on Donnelly's tiny grid of gravel roads not long after Tamarack first opened for business, in the boom times of 2004, as a year-round golfing, skiing lakefront resort on private and state land in the Payette River Mountains. 
 By late 2007, they were running the city, promising a more creative, responsive and environment-friendly government. 
 ''We wanted to take Donnelly back to its core community values,'' Mr. Backus said. 
 It was right about then that Tamarack went into receivership after defaulting on a $250 million loan. Fifteen months later, even as many homeowners and guests used the resort, it ceased operations. One of its developers, Jean-Pierre Boespflug, is on record as saying he hopes to reopen the resort in some fashion later this year.
 For some longtime residents, the upheaval has administered a measure of poetic justice. The closing of Tamarack proved that the shiny new future the outsiders promised was not such a cinch, and showed that maybe Donnelly was not so bad the way it had been before.
 ''It's kind of fun to watch them go,'' said Jesse Withers, 68, a logging truck driver.
 Yet by and large, the closing of Tamarack and its impact on city leadership has meant pain. Aside from the economic fallout, the uncertainty in the town's government comes as important business is at hand, including trying to find financing for a new municipal well and drafting an annexation plan that, if the housing market ever turns upward again, could expand the town's tiny tax base. 
 Even former mayors and Council members say the newcomers have been doing smart work and that a remote town still recovering from declines in logging has benefited from a dose of new energy and ideas. 
 They praise the new people for learning how to write successful grant requests, for pushing through a bed tax (the town's new hotel has now closed, however) and for working with the state to begin adding curbs, sidewalks and streetlights to a block of Main Street. They also say the new people listen better.
 ''They think differently, and I think they're better politicians than we were,'' said Susan Dorris, a former Council member whose husband, George, is a former mayor. ''They didn't have any of the old political baggage.''
 Even some officials who did not work for Tamarack are uncertain of their future. Steve Hart, a high-end home builder who was appointed to fill a vacancy on the Council in early 2008, said he was considering renting out his house here and moving to Boise. If he does, he may not meet the residency requirement to serve. 
 At 63, Mr. Hart is not of the same generation as the mayor and others on the Council, but he said he was impressed by their passion and competence. Noting that Donnelly sits between Tamarack and the tourist destination of McCall, about 15 miles north, Mr. Hart said the goal of the Council had been to make Donnelly a place ''where the working person could live economically.''
 Jay Mentzer, 30, the president of the Town Council and the former head of transportation and parking for Tamarack, said he had written a paper while in college in Colorado ''about the theft of culture in mountain towns.'' He said he had no intention of making Donnelly another victim of the New West.
 Mr. Mentzer has managed to find a new job, essentially an extension of his old one, running a shuttle bus that delivers children to school and workers to their jobs. He has a mortgage on a house he says he could not sell if he wanted to -- and this in a town where just a couple of years ago speculators offered to cut checks on the spot for rambling ranchers with rusty cars in the yard. 
 ''We're still moving forward,'' Mr. Mentzer said, noting the street improvements on Main Street, which will begin this summer, and the effort to build the new well. ''I'll be here. I'm stuck. I'm in.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Roseberry Plaza, just off the main road in Donnelly, Idaho, has many vacant storefronts in the aftermath of Tamarack Resort's closing its doors, at least temporarily.
 At the Club, deceased bar patrons are memorialized by the hanging of their hats. Susan Dorris, middle right, and Kristal Hanes chat outside the Flights of Fancy Bakery. Jay Mentzer lost one job but managed to land another one.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL HOSEFROS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: A resort's selling point was its remote locale, at Donnelly. Map details Donnelly, Idaho. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RESORTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); GOLF (73%); POLITICS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IDAHO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009



434 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'THE REAL HOUSEWIVES OF NEW JERSEY'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: For Ultrareality, 'Housewives' Turns to Jersey Girls

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
All the other housewives, those passels of pampered, primping, social-climbing, Botox-injecting spendthrifts in Orange County, Atlanta and New York, are not the real thing. 
 All those McMansions, swimming pools, boutiques, charity auctions and spa splurges have been merely rehearsals, introductory rounds leading to the apotheosis of the Bravo ''Real Housewives'' franchise, ''The Real Housewives of New Jersey.''
 The New Jersey housewives are more real and more riveting than their predecessors because, well, they are from New Jersey, and also because they so closely mirror the make-believe characters in ''The Sopranos.'' 
 The best reality shows look like fiction.
 The five women who make their debuts on Bravo on Tuesday night are buffed and polished to resemble real-life versions of Carmela Soprano, loud, nasal, nouveau-riche wives who raise spoiled children and spend their husbands' money in vast marble and onyx starter palaces in Franklin Lakes, N.J. They boast about everything, including how soon they qualified for the black American Express card. As Danielle Staub puts it, ''I actually got mine before Madonna did.'' 
 Viewers already know the milieu, the accent and the attitude. The rest is delicious: clannish sisters and sisters-in-law who squabble among themselves but band against newcomers. 
 ''We're a large Italian family and we're tougher than most,'' Caroline Manzo, the matriarch in the group, explains. ''Before I like you, I don't like you.''
 Toughness is part of the pedigree. Caroline is married to Albert Manzo, owner of the Brownstone, a catering and banquet business in Paterson N.J., and the son of Albert (Tiny) Manzo, whose 350-pound body was found riddled with gunshot wounds, his arms and legs bound in plastic, in the trunk of his Lincoln Continental in 1983. 
 This may be the most preposterous ''Housewives'' edition, but it's also the most believable. The suffocating family ties are an improvement over past incarnations, when producers often threw together women who were not really that close and whose frictions often seemed forced. These women actually do know one another well, talk every day and raise their children together (badly). The camera crew seems to be eavesdropping, rather than masterminding. Some of the women seem to have a sense of humor, or at least to enjoy the joke that is their lives on film. 
 Caroline's baby sister Dina, a statuesque blonde, is married to Albert's brother, Tommy, so they are sisters married to brothers. The sisters' brother, Chris, is married to Jacqueline Laurita, a former Las Vegas cosmetologist, and Dina and Caroline treat Jacqueline as a younger, more biddable sister.
 ''Her heart is as big as her bubbies,'' Dina says of her sister-in-law, meaning it as a compliment. (Bubbies is their preferred term for breasts, a topic that is always on the table.)
 They are not directly related to Teresa Giudice, who is married to Joe, a self-described entrepreneur and the owner of a construction business, but they might as well be. Teresa, the mother of three small girls, is the biggest spender in the group, always shopping for new clothes and more ornate furniture for her family's unfinished French-style chateau. 
 The economic slump is rarely if ever mentioned on ''Real Housewives.'' Partly, that's because it's a buzzkill for viewers hooked on the free-floating vulgarity. But the men and women who agree to be on the show have more prosaic motives than just vanity or exhibitionism -- fame brings publicity, and publicity is good for business, be it catering, event planning or real estate. 
 So the recession is mentioned only in passing. ''I hear the economy's crashing,'' Teresa says saucily on her way to another spree. ''So that's why I pay cash.''
 Danielle, who is divorced and not a relative or even Italian-American, is the outsider. She befriended Jacqueline at the beauty parlor, and is on ''frenemy'' terms with the rest of the women. None are particularly prudish or reserved, but Danielle has no secrets, not even about phone sex.
 Locations and accents change, but the faces (frozen) and the formula never alter. The humor lies in the editing, and one of the hallmarks of ''Real Housewives'' is its reliance on ironic contrast: a woman makes a boastful assertion that is instantly contradicted by tape of her doing or saying the opposite. 
 ''I am so not a stage mom,'' Teresa says, while the show turns to footage of her coaching her young daughter, Gia, who is made up like a pageant contestant for a dance recital.
 Bravo has already shown a ''preview special'' that contains much of the material found in Tuesday's premiere episode. It doesn't matter. There is nothing linear to the show's narrative; instead, cat fights and outrageous remarks are played and replayed in every episode in a continuous estrogen loop. Like Nicholson Baker's time-lapse novels, each season of ''Real Housewives'' can take weeks, and endless detours and heated arguments, to get from the nail salon to the fashion show. 
 ''Housewives of New York City'' seems to drag on forever because there is something so dismal and joyless about that clique of arrivistes. ''Housewives of New Jersey'' is more farcical, less phony and a lot more fun. 
 The Real Housewives of New Jersey
 Bravo, Tuesday night at 11, Eastern and Pacific times; 10, Central time. Moves into its regular 10 p.m. time slot on May 19.
 Rebecca Toth Diefenbach, Valerie Haselton and Nina Diaz, executive producers. Produced by Sirens Media for Bravo.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Caroline Manzo, Teresa Giudice and Dina Manzo, some of the stars of ''The Real Housewives of New Jersey.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREI JACKAMETS/BRAVO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONSURGICAL COSMETIC PROCEDURES (89%); CHARITIES (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (69%); CREDIT CARDS (67%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (62%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

TITLE: The Real Housewives of New Jersey (TV Program); Real Housewives (TV Program); The Real Housewives of New Jersey (TV Program); Real Housewives (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009



435 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times, May 12, 2009

 BODY:
International
 CONCERNS FOR CIVILIANS IN SRI LANKA
 An estimated 50,000 civilians are trapped in the area of land still held by the rebels whom the Sri Lankan government is fighting. The United Nations said a ''bloodbath'' was taking place, and aid agencies said both sides were to blame. PAGE A4 
 U.S. DEPORTS ACCUSED NAZI 
 John Demjanjuk of Seven Hills, Ohio, born Ivan Demjanjuk in Ukraine in 1920, was deported by the United States, accused of crimes committed as a Nazi death-camp guard. PAGE A10 
 PRIORITIES IN PAKISTAN
 A recent poll showed that a majority of Pakistanis ranked the economy as a more pressing issue than terrorism. PAGE A10 
 National
 CRIST EXPECTED TO DECLARE
 A Run for U.S. Senate
 Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida is expected to announce that he will run next year for the United States Senate. PAGE A13 
 DEMOCRATS PROTEST SECRECY
 Forty-five moderate-to-conservative House Democrats have protested the secretive process by which party leaders in their chamber are developing legislation to remake the health care system. PAGE A16
 FEDERAL JUDGE SENTENCED
 Samuel B. Kent, a federal judge who presided in Galveston, Tex., was sentenced to 33 months in prison for lying to an investigative committee about whether he had sexually harassed his secretary. PAGE A15 
 Final Flight to Hubble A14
 New York
 M.T.A. BOARD AGREES 
 To Raise Fares to $2.25
 The Metropolitan Transportation Authority's board approved fare increases that will raise the cost of a single subway or bus ride to $2.25, from $2. PAGE A20 
 MURDER TRIAL BEGINS
 The murder trial of Darryl Littlejohn, a bouncer accused of killing Imette St. Guillen after she left a Manhattan bar in 2006, began with testimony from her best friend, who was with her before the killing, as well as that of several investigators and the victim's sister. PAGE A21 
 Business
 ESTIMATE OF BUDGET DEFICIT
 Is Raised by $90 Billion
 The Obama administration added $90 billion to its estimate of the federal deficit both for this year and next. The Treasury said that President Obama's proposal for financing half of his health care plan would raise $50 billion less than he initially projected. PAGE B1
 FIGHTER JET PROJECT AT RISK
 Britain's commitment to the Eurofighter Typhoon combat plane was in question after it missed a payment for a final production stage. Critics of the project -- the biggest pan-European fighter program ever devised -- say it is unjustifiable at a time of economic crisis. PAGE B3
 GERMANS WARY OF FIAT PLANS
 German politicians, executives and union bosses are casting a more skeptical eye on Fiat's bid for Opel and the rest of General Motors' European operations. PAGE B3
 Goldman Pays to End Inquiry B3
 Arts
 HISTORIC AREA IS PROPOSED, AND BUILDINGS ARE ALTERED
 In January 2007 the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission received a proposal to create a South Village Historic District. On Tuesday, the committee will hold the first community meeting to discuss the idea. But some advocates say that in those two years, too much of the neighborhood's architecture has been lost. PAGE C1
 'NEWSHOUR' GETS MAKEOVER
 ''The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer,'' the long-running PBS program, will be retitled ''PBS NewsHour'' and move to a two-anchor format, nudging it toward the day when Mr. Lehrer decides to retire. PAGE C1 
 CLEMENS'S FALL FROM GLORY
 In the new book ''American Icon,'' four reporters from The Daily News in New York recount the story of the pitcher Roger Clemens's shockingly swift fall from grace. Review by Michiko Kakutani. PAGE C1
 Addicted to 'House' C3
 Sports
 FAVRE'S ROAD TO REVENGE MAY GO THROUGH MINNESOTA
 If Minnesota opens the door, Brett Favre should step in. He always wanted to be there, the rival of his team in Green Bay, in order to get revenge. William C. Rhoden, Sports of the Times. PAGE B11 
 CAVALIERS SWEEP HAWKS
 LeBron James led the Cleveland Cavaliers to another playoff sweep, scoring 27 points as the Cavaliers finished off the Hawks, 84-74, in Game 4 of their Eastern Conference second-round series. PAGE B11
 Giants Get Steal in Draft B12 
 Science Times
 PLAYING DETECTIVE
 In Science Class
 At New Rochelle High School, one phylum of science class has proved a runaway success: forensic science, the application of science to solving crimes. PAGE D1
 INDEXING DNA FINGERPRINTS
 The nondescript computers in the F.B.I.'s crime laboratory in Quantico, Va., house the world's largest repository of forensic DNA information. PAGE D3
 A CASE FOR CALLING IN SICK
 Anne Marie Valinoti, an internist in northern New Jersey, suggests that people who are ill should ignore their desires to be valiant and simply call in sick to work. PAGE D6
 Obituaries
 HENRY T. KING JR., 89
 He was one of the last Nuremberg war crimes prosecutors and an influential voice since World War II in international efforts to bring war criminals to justice. PAGE A25
 EUGENE SMITH, 88
 His ardent baritone and evangelical showmanship made him a celebrity among churchgoers on the South Side of Chicago. Mr. Smith went on to become an influence on generations of gospel singers. PAGE A25 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SENTENCING (90%); DEMJANJUK WAR CRIMES CASE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (86%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); DISASTER RELIEF (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TESTIMONY (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); HOMICIDE (76%); DEPORTATION (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); PRISONS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); HEALTH CARE (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); JUDGES (71%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (69%); TERRORISM (69%); HEALTH CARE LAW (67%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (64%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (61%); MURDER (56%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (61%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (61%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: JOHN DEMJANJUK (76%); CHARLIE CRIST (72%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (55%) OHIO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) SRI LANKA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); UKRAINE (90%); GERMANY (88%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009



436 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Workers Pressure Bank to Keep Clothier's U.S. Plants Open

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: DES PLAINES, Ill. 

 BODY:
Hartmarx, known for its Hart Schaffner & Marx and Hickey Freeman suits, and for making President Obama's inauguration tuxedo and topcoat, has long been America's leading clothier for men. Now its workers want to make the company, which is in bankruptcy, a leader in a different way. 
 Hoping to save their jobs and start a national movement, Hartmarx workers are pressuring Wells Fargo, the company's main creditor, to approve the sale of Hartmarx to a buyer that would keep it alive instead of liquidating it, and most likely putting its celebrated labels on suits made overseas.
 Seeing a political and public relations opening, the workers and their union are arguing that Wells Fargo, having received $25 billion in the bank bailout, should keep a 122-year-old American company like Hartmarx in business and preserve some 3,600 jobs. 
 At a protest rally and meeting on Monday at the Hart Schaffner & Marx factory here, one lawmaker made clear that saving Hartmarx was a personal crusade. Representative Phil Hare, who worked for 13 years as a clothing cutter at the company's plant in Rock Island, Ill., said that if Wells Fargo sold Hartmarx to a buyer that liquidated it, ''I promise you I will be their worst nightmare.''
 ''I will say to Wells Fargo again,'' he continued, ''you need to do the right thing, the correct thing. You need to stand up for the American worker, like Congress stood up for the banks when times were tough.''
 At a news conference outside the plant, union leaders announced they would set up a nationwide toll-free number and clearinghouse that other embattled workers can contact if their plants were threatened with closing. 
 The idea is that the labor movement will fight to pressure companies and companies' bankers, especially ones that have received federal bailout money, to keep plants open. 
 Responding to the protests, Wells Fargo said on Monday that Hartmarx has been in default on the financing the bank has provided since the company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. ''Advancing more funds with no reasonable likelihood of being repaid is not consistent with sound banking,'' the bank said.
 At Monday's rally, most of the 650 workers at the plant in this Chicago suburb crowded into the lunchroom and voted to stage a sit-in if Wells Fargo takes steps to liquidate their company -- and jobs. 
 ''If the banks are going to pull the plug and pull us down, we will fight,'' said Ruby Sims, president of the Workers United union local at the plant. ''We're going to do whatever it takes to keep our jobs.'' 
 The workers stood and cheered. Coming from Chicago's South Side as well as China, Greece, Mexico, Poland and a dozen other countries, many earn around $12 an hour. One held a placard saying, ''Wells Fargo You Took Our Tax $$$$ Save Our Jobs.''
 To step up pressure on Wells Fargo, the workers have turned to powerful allies in Washington, most notably Barney Frank, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, and Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, where the Hickey Freeman plant, in Rochester, employs 800 workers. Employees are hoping that Mr. Obama, too, will pull some strings for them.
 There has been no word from the White House on the dispute. 
 Hartmarx filed for bankruptcy on Jan. 23, three days after Mr. Obama's inauguration, after its sales plunged by around 40 percent late last year, largely because of the Wall Street crisis and large-scale layoffs there. Company officials involved in the bankruptcy proceedings said Hartmarx felt forced to file for bankruptcy after Wells Fargo reduced its credit line by $25 million.
 Saying that Hartmarx has been unable to repay $114 million in debt, Wells Fargo issued a statement on Monday that was a mixture of optimism and pessimism about the company's future.
 ''We want them to stay in business so we can earn all of their business and help them succeed financially,'' Wells Fargo said.
 But the bank added, ''Despite extensive marketing, Hartmarx has no credible offers to be acquired, but the bank group continues to work with Hartmarx to find potential buyers.''
 Senator Schumer as well as union and company officials said that three companies have made reasonable offers to buy Hartmarx. Two of them, Emerisque of London and Yucaipa of California, have indicated they would keep Hartmarx operating, while the other, Mistral Equity Partners of New York, is said to plan to liquidate Hartmarx and most likely continue using the Hart Schaffner and Hickey Freeman brand names, while producing those brands overseas. The three companies declined comment.
 At the lunchtime rally, workers protested that Wells Fargo was not extending the factory credit to buy the fabric needed to produce its line of fall suits, a move they fear will push Hartmarx closer toward liquidation. 
 Joe D'Amico, an employee for 42 years and a ''front presser'' for sports jackets and suit coats, voiced pride about the plant's products.
 ''Obama's suits went right through my hands,'' Mr. D'Amico said. ''My belief is the government gave the banks money to give out to industries in need, but I feel the banks are covering their own backs, and don't want to lend the money out to save people's jobs.''
 Senator Schumer said there were buyers who would keep the company in business. ''They are in the final stages of putting together their bids,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''Wells Fargo ought to give them the time they need to assemble a bid that would keep the workers working. Not to do so would certainly hurt the economy in several states, including New York, and might not serve their shareholders well either.'' 
 Union leaders said they hoped their campaign and threats of a sit-in would help preserve Hartmarx just as a six-day sit-in at the Republic Windows and Doors factory in Chicago in December helped lead to a new company's buying the plant and reopening it, after the previous owner closed it. 
 Wells Fargo said it ''empathizes with the employees and communities affected by the decisions made by Hartmarx,'' including its decision to file for bankruptcy. The bank also said that it continued to finance the company's operations even though in 2007 and 2008 the apparel company lost more than $30 million.
 Hartmarx's chief executive, Homi Patel, does not hide his desire to keep the company operating. ''Brands that have been around for 100 years made by American craftsmen are highly desirable properties,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''There are several bidders, and we hope that all parties will ensure that we maximize the proceeds while also doing right by our workers and other stakeholders.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Yan Yun inspecting suits made by Hartmarx, which is in bankruptcy. Union leaders want to stop it from being liquidated.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A Hart Schaffner & Marx suit factory in suburban Chicago. Hartmarx sales fell about 40 percent late last year.
 A union rally, left, to encourage Wells Fargo not to sell Hartmarx. Representative Phil Hare attended the rally on Monday.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (88%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (77%); APPAREL MFG (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (72%); WORKPLACE MORALE (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (94%); HMX LLC (90%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2337 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' SUITS, SKIRTS, & COATS (90%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (90%); SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (90%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); PHIL HARE (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); ROCK ISLAND, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009



437 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM CAIRO; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Egypt Prepares for Center Stage When Obama Addresses Arabs

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Samer al-Atrush contributed reporting.

DATELINE: CAIRO 

 BODY:
President Obama's decision to deliver a speech here next month has given significant encouragement to a once powerful ally that has grown increasingly frustrated over its waning regional influence and its inability to explain to its citizens why it remains committed to a Middle East peace process that has failed to produce a better life for Palestinians.
 After eight years in which Egypt felt unappreciated and bullied by the Bush administration, Egyptian officials were gleeful about Cairo's selection last week for the president's address to the Muslim world. They said that it proved Egypt remained the capital of the Arab world and that it eased concerns that Washington might undermine its Arab allies in exchange for a grand deal with their rivals in Iran. 
 ''The aptest choice was Cairo,'' the Egyptian foreign minister, Ahmed Abul Gheit, told the state-owned daily newspaper Rose Al-Yousef. ''It is the capital of moderation in Islam and the capital of cultural sway in the Arab and Muslim worlds.''
 Still, President Obama's decision to address a deeply skeptical Arab audience from Cairo is fraught with potential land mines, according to political analysts, human rights advocates and government officials. He has selected an authoritarian state where political and economic reform has stalled under President Hosni Mubarak, 82, who has been in power for nearly 30 years.
 Those factors will put some pressure on Mr. Obama to at least address the issue of democracy and human rights. The Egyptian government bristles at outside pressure, and the general population often sees hypocrisy when Western leaders call for democracy, then partner with authoritarian leaders.
 ''America's standing alongside authoritarian regimes is what created terrorism in the Arab world,'' said Ayman Nour, a former presidential candidate who was recently freed after more than three years in prison here on what were widely seen as politically inspired charges. ''It is what strengthened the thorn of extremism in the Arab world.''
 Even before the issue of human rights is raised, though, Egyptian leaders and activists will be looking for Mr. Obama to address their first priority: the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. If Mr. Obama wants to improve United States relations with the Muslim world, that is the first step, many here said.
 There was a time when progress on process was enough, they argued. Not anymore. 
 People here want results, a challenge made all the more complicated for Mr. Obama by recent regional developments: the splintering of the Palestinian leadership; the empowerment of militant groups like Hezbollah and Hamas; lingering anger over Israel's offensive in Gaza; and the aggressive foreign policy of Iran.
 Still, there will be an expectation that Mr. Obama drive real changes, initially by having Israel freeze settlements, dismantle checkpoints and open the crossings to Gaza, officials here said.
 ''For 18 years, the peace process has gone on?'' said a high-ranking Egyptian diplomat speaking anonymously under diplomatic rules. ''Who in their right mind would think it can go on for another 18 years?''
 Egypt sees in the peace process the key to most regional problems, from its diminished credibility to what it perceives as the rising threat of Iran. Israel's prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, who met with Mr. Mubarak on Monday in the Red Sea resort of Sharm el Sheik, has tried to promote the idea that Arabs, Israelis and Americans have a common enemy in Iran and should first unite against that threat.
 Egypt agrees, but only to a point.
 Egypt maintains that to tame Iran -- with which it is in open conflict -- the issue of a Palestinian state must first be resolved. As long as that conflict is festering, Iran will be able to undermine Egypt by attacking its allegiance to the peace treaty with Israel, officials here said. Egypt has struggled to convince its people, and Arabs around the region, that its commitment to the treaty is the best way to help the Palestinians and to preserve Egypt's own national security.
 ''I affirmed the importance of resuming negotiations between Israel and the Palestinian National Authority for a clear political horizon that deals with all final status issues and that establishes an independent Palestinian state to live alongside Israel,'' Mr. Mubarak said after meeting with Mr. Netanyahu.
 Egypt has already made clear that it cannot begin to give until it gets. That is why Egypt -- along with the 21 other members of the Arab League -- last week flatly rejected a proposal floated by Washington's emissaries in the region that called on the Arab states to drop their demands for the right of return for Palestinian refugees to Israel. 
 Concessions would only undermine Egypt with its adversaries, primarily Iran, analysts here said. Ambassador Hesham Youssef, chief of staff to the Arab League, said he was hopeful that President Obama would spell out a specific plan when he spoke in Cairo.
 ''The question is not talking about the issues; the question is changes on the ground,'' Mr. Youssef said.
 But even if Mr. Obama manages to satisfy on the Palestinian question, he will have to step carefully around the issue of human rights and democracy. It is a treacherous subject, almost a no-win situation for any outsider. 
 If he presses Cairo on freedom issues, he risks alienating a government he needs for strategic reasons. He could also incite anger among average Egyptians who almost instinctively recoil at outsiders' telling them what to do. And yet, if he does not raise the issues, he could be taken to task for conveniently overlooking a serious point.
 ''We have not seen any American commitments in supporting democracy and respecting the wishes of Arab and Muslim people,'' said Essam el-Arian, a spokesman for the Muslim Brotherhood, a banned but tolerated organization that is the only real opposition movement in the country and supports the application of Islamic law. ''It can be summed by measuring American interests with American values.''
 There is, however, a way to navigate the issue of human rights, said Saad Eddin Ibrahim, an Egyptian democracy advocate living in self-imposed exile because the government has threatened to jail him. He said he recently spoke with Mr. Obama's advisers and suggested that the speech address the ''infrastructure of democracy, which to us is the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, free media, autonomous civil society and gender equality.''
 ''If those five things are emphasized without talking about democracy as such, we democrats in nondemocratic countries would be more than happy,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gazans waiting in Rafah to cross into Egypt. Many expect President Obama to push to open the crossings in Israel.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KHALIL HAMRA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Israel's prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, left, met with President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt on Monday in the Red Sea resort of Sharm el Sheik.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN CURTIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); POLITICS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); HAMAS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); HEZBOLLAH (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); RELIGION (70%); TERRORISM (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); HOSNI MUBARAK (59%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (94%) RED SEA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (59%) EGYPT (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009



438 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Governor Said to Plan Senate Bid In Florida

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Gary Fineout contributed reporting from Tallahassee.

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
Gov. Charlie Crist is expected to announce Tuesday that he will run next year for the United States Senate, ending months of speculation and creating a domino effect that will leave several state positions up for grabs.
 Republican officials said the governor, a moderate who has angered conservatives by supporting the president's stimulus package, appears to have decided that he can best serve the state from Congress, not Tallahassee. 
 ''The governor has heard over and over that the problems and challenges that Floridians are facing in this historic time are originating out of Washington,'' said Jim Greer, the state Republican Party chairman. ''I think that means Charlie Crist, in my opinion, is going to seek to serve citizens in the office where he can be involved in decisions that are affecting their lives.'' 
 Mr. Crist, 52, played coy at a public event Monday when asked if he could do more from the Senate. ''I don't know,'' he said, ''maybe I'll have something more to say about that tomorrow.''
 But since Senator Mel Martinez announced in December that he would not seek re-election, Mr. Crist has been considered the front-runner. Republicans and Democrats have assumed for weeks that he would run, and the campaign seems to have started. 
 The Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee recently ran a television advertisement criticizing Mr. Crist, a first-term governor, as ''leaving Floridians with the mess.'' Two prominent Democrats -- Representative Kendrick B. Meek of Miami, and State Representative Dan Gelber of Miami Beach -- have been in the race for months.
 Meanwhile, State Representative Marco Rubio, 37, a Miami Republican and former House speaker, announced last week that he would run for the Senate with a tough appeal to conservatives. ''Some believe the path to security and prosperity is a larger government involvement in our economy,'' Mr. Rubio said in a videotaped statement. He added, ''The majority of us don't agree with that view.''
 Under state law, if Mr. Crist ran for re-election next year, he could have served only one more term.
 Susan A. MacManus, a political science professor at the University of South Florida, said Mr. Crist's abbreviated tenure would probably be defined by the economy. 
 He has overseen billions in budget cuts that are still being felt, while strongly backing the Obama administration's stimulus. Mr. Crist even appeared with the president in Fort Myers to rally support for it.
 Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Republican from Miami Beach, recently told a local reporter that ''diehard Republicans are still mad at Charlie'' for his fiscal policy. 
 Mr. Greer said, ''Putting partisan politics aside at times, and getting things done is what Floridians want.'' Still, he acknowledged that a departure by Mr. Crist would create a chain reaction as leading Republicans -- like Attorney General Bill McCollum -- seek higher office. 
 ''The big thing is where is the money going to come from?'' said Bill Bunting, chairman of the Republican Party of Pasco County. ''You're talking about a governor's race, you're talking $50 million or $60 million for that, then you have to raise money for a Senate race, and you have the attorney general's race.'' 
 The stakes are high because redistricting will occur in 2012 under the watch of whoever holds power in Tallahassee. Democrats said that Mr. Crist could win a seat in Washington, even as he contributed to widespread Republican losses at the state level. 
 ''It has the potential to create an entire rewriting of Florida government,'' Mr. Gelber said. ''We're going to have an almost blank slate in state government because of his decision.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); BUDGETS (66%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (54%)

PERSON: CHARLIE CRIST (90%); MARCO RUBIO (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MEL MARTINEZ (58%); ILEANA ROS-LEHTINEN (57%); KENDRICK B MEEK (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (92%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (77%) FLORIDA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009



439 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: A Blog Geared to Women Yields a New Site for Slate

BYLINE: By JENNA WORTHAM

 BODY:
The editors of a new Web site for women from the people behind Slate have Sarah Palin and Eliot L. Spitzer to thank. Their foibles, in part, supplied the gas to help transform a chatty blog into a full-blown Web magazine. 
 The new site, Double X, which is set to start publishing Tuesday, grew from a group blog created on Slate in October 2007 called The XX Factor, after the pair of X chromosomes in women. The blog featured commentary on politics, sex and culture from several women who write for Slate, including Meghan O'Rourke, Hanna Rosin and Emily Bazelon. 
 Driven in part by coverage of the presidential election from a woman-centric perspective, the blog consistently ranked as one of Slate's top 10 features, leading the three women to propose that Slate turn the site into its own online hub.
 ''It became immediately obvious that a different kind of discussion happened when women were writing,'' Ms. Rosin said. 
 ''Women's magazines never get it quite right,'' Ms. O'Rourke added. ''It seemed like an opportune moment to jump in and lead the conversation.''
 The blog was performing well enough that the company agreed to the proposal, said Jacob Weisberg, Slate's editor in chief. The three women are co-editors, and the managing editor is Jessica Grose, formerly an editor of the Gawker Media blog Jezebel.
 ''The appetite for women's content has never been stronger,'' Mr. Weisberg said of The XX Factor, which Slate says drew a million visitors a month. 
 To turn the blog into a full-fledged Web magazine, the site will draw from a number of contributors to include commentary and critiques of popular culture, film and television, home design and family life, along with features like personal narratives from women on surviving the recession. Double X has also formed a partnership with Google to offer a news feed focused on women on the site. 
 Although the editors describe the site as a savvy, intellectual, feminist antidote to glossy, celebrity-obsessed women's magazines, it will not turn away male readers, which they say have made up 40 percent of the blog's readership. The site has recruited several men to contribute essays about parenting and fatherhood as well.
 Double X is the latest addition to the Slate Group, owned by The Washington Post Company, which has recently expanded its cluster of offerings to include a video site called Slate V, a financial analysis area called The Big Money, and The Root, a news and opinion site for black Americans. 
 Mr. Weisberg says he hopes that the steadily rising appetite for woman-centric content, which more than half of American Web surfers checked out in December, according to comScore, will sustain the site despite the economic turmoil facing the media industry.
 ''It's a nervous time to start anything new,'' Mr. Weisberg acknowledged. But so far, he said, the response from advertisers has been promising. The site has been able to attract ad dollars from major consumer companies, including Sprint-Nextel. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); WOMEN (90%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); WEB SITES (78%); FAMILY (75%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); PARENTING (65%); FILM (62%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (60%); MOVIE REVIEWS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (64%); WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); WOMEN'S MAGAZINES GROUP (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (64%); WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (64%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (73%); SARAH PALIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009



440 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Health Vows: It's Still Early

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama engineered a political coup on Monday by bringing leaders of the health care industry to the White House to build momentum for his ambitious health care agenda. 
 Mr. Obama pronounced it ''a historic day, a watershed event,'' because doctors, hospitals, drug makers and insurance companies voluntarily offered $2 trillion in cost reductions over 10 years. The savings, he said, ''will help us take the next and most important step -- comprehensive health care reform.''
 Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, said Mr. Obama had told the health care executives, ''You've made a commitment; we expect you to keep it.'' 
 If history is a guide, their commitments may not produce the promised savings. Their proposals are vague -- promising, for example, to reduce both ''overuse and underuse of health care.'' None of the proposals are enforceable, and none of the savings are guaranteed. Without such a guarantee, budget rules would normally prevent Congress from using the savings to pay for new initiatives to cover the uninsured. At this point, cost control is little more than a shared aspiration.
 Still, the event was significant. There was something in it for Mr. Obama, and something for the industry -- though not necessarily the same thing. Their interests overlap but do not coincide.
 For Mr. Obama, the White House meeting was an opportunity to showcase his consensus-building approach, in contrast with the confrontational style of Hillary Rodham Clinton, who at this point in her husband's first term attacked ''price gouging, cost shifting and unconscionable profiteering'' by the industry in a speech to union members.
 Mr. Obama is not cracking the whip on the health care industry so much as wooing it, just as he said he would in the campaign. 
 For the health care and insurance executives, the savings initiative helps them secure a seat at the table where many decisions about their future will be made in the next year. They also ingratiated themselves with Democrats in the White House and Congress who are moving swiftly to reshape the nation's health care system.
 ''We came together in a serious way a couple of weeks ago,'' said David H. Nexon, senior executive vice president of the Advanced Medical Technology Association, one of the six health care industry groups that promised to lower costs. ''Health care reform is moving very fast. We want to make sure it comes out in a way that's workable and sustainable.''
 Dennis Rivera, coordinator of the health care campaign of the Service Employees International Union, led efforts to bring the industry groups together, with help from Nancy-Ann DeParle, director of the White House Office of Health Reform.
 The consensus-building approach has already yielded some results. Insurance executives have offered to end certain underwriting practices, like refusing to cover individuals with pre-existing conditions or charging women higher rates than men, and they have invited Congress to impose stringent, uniform federal regulation on their industry. But even as insurers and health care providers stand shoulder to shoulder with Mr. Obama in vowing to slow the growth of health spending, they oppose him on other fronts. For example, insurance companies are opposed to a new government-sponsored health plan, which Mr. Obama supports but insurers fear could drive them out of business. 
 Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the third-ranking Democrat in the Senate, welcomed the industry's cost-cutting commitment as ''a good-faith gesture.'' But he said, ''It does not mitigate the need for a public plan option in our health care reform bill.''
 In addition, insurers and health care providers are lobbying strenuously against cuts in their Medicare payments that would produce savings of the type they profess to want. Insurers are fighting Mr. Obama's proposal to cut payments to their private Medicare Advantage plans by a total of $176 billion over 10 years. Doctors are pleading with Congress not to cut costs at their expense, in particular by allowing a 21 percent cut in their Medicare fees scheduled to occur in January. Pharmaceutical companies and makers of medical devices worry that new products may have to pass a cost-benefit test before being approved for coverage under Medicare.
 To fulfill Mr. Obama's campaign promise of offering affordable coverage to all, cost control is a political, as well as an economic, necessity. By their own account, Democrats will have difficulty financing coverage for more than 45 million people who are uninsured. The task would be virtually impossible -- and new social insurance programs would be unsustainable -- if health spending continued to increase at the currently projected rate of 6.2 percent a year for a decade.
 The industry says it can shave 1.5 percent off the annual rate of growth through voluntary efforts. But similar efforts to control health costs have been rolled out in the past, without much of a long-term effect.
 Henry J. Aaron, a health economist at the Brookings Institution, said that when he heard the industry's promises on Monday, ''I had a Rip van Winkle moment, as if I had fallen asleep in 1977 and woke up again this morning.''
 Mr. Aaron served in the administration of President Jimmy Carter, whose proposal for hospital cost controls prompted the industry to undertake a short-lived ''voluntary effort.'' 
 After President Bill Clinton proposed an overhaul of the health care system in 1993 and 1994, the growth of health spending slowed, only to surge a few years later.
 Drew E. Altman, the president of the Kaiser Family Foundation, offered a historical perspective spanning nearly four decades.
 ''Neither managed care, nor wage and price controls, nor regulation, nor voluntary action nor market competition has had a lasting impact on our nation's health care costs,'' Mr. Altman said. ''Reformers should not overpromise.''
 Industry groups sounded constructive and positive on Monday, but the real test will come in a few weeks when lawmakers unveil detailed legislative proposals. ''Will they still be supportive?'' Mr. Altman asked. ''Or will they revert to form and protect their turf?''
 Rather than gambling on the answer, some lawmakers want to establish an enforcement mechanism, which would take effect if the industry's voluntary steps did not slow health spending by a specified amount.
 Such cost-control devices have proved spectacularly ineffective in limiting the growth of Medicare spending on doctors' services. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama met on Monday with health industry leaders, among them, from left, Richard T. Clark of Merck, George Halvorson of the Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Dr. J. James Rohack of the American Medical Association and the union leader Dennis Rivera. The group agreed to hold down health care costs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (93%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INSURANCE (72%); BUDGETS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RICHARD T CLARK (59%); NANCY-ANN DEPARLE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009



441 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: Obama Takes Tougher Antitrust Line

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama's top antitrust official announced on Monday that the administration would restore an aggressive enforcement policy against corporations that use their market dominance to elbow out competitors or to keep them from gaining market share. 
 The new enforcement policy reverses the Bush administration's approach, which strongly favored defendants against antitrust claims. It returns to a policy that led to the landmark antitrust lawsuits against Microsoft and Intel in the 1990s.
 The head of the Justice Department's antitrust division, Christine A. Varney, announced the policy reversal in a speech on Monday before the Center for American Progress, a liberal policy research organization. She will deliver the same speech on Tuesday to the United States Chamber of Commerce. 
 Ms. Varney said that the Bush administration policy ''lost sight of an ultimate goal of antitrust laws -- the protection of consumer welfare.'' 
 ''The failing of this approach is that it effectively straitjackets antitrust enforcers and courts from redressing monopolistic abuses, thereby allowing all but the most bold and predatory conduct to go unpunished and undeterred,'' she said. ''We must change course and take a new tack,''
 The administration is hoping to encourage smaller companies in an array of industries to bring their complaints to the Justice Department about potentially improper business practices by their larger rivals. Some of the biggest antitrust cases were initiated by complaints taken to the Justice Department.
 Ms. Varney said that the administration rejected the impulse to go easy on antitrust enforcement during weak economic times. 
 Instead, she said, severe recessions can provide dangerous incentives for large and dominating companies to engage in predatory behavior that harms consumers and weakens competition. 
 ''There is no adequate substitute for a competitive market, particularly during times of economic distress,'' she said. ''Vigorous antitrust enforcement must play a significant role in the government's response to economic crises to ensure that markets remain competitive.''
 The announcement is aimed at making sure that no court or party to a lawsuit can cite the Bush administration policy as the government's official view in any pending cases. Ms. Varney warned judges and litigants in antitrust lawsuits not involving the government to ignore the Bush administration's policies, which were formally outlined in a report by the Justice Department last year. 
 The report applied legal standards that made it difficult to bring new cases involving monopoly and predatory practices. 
 As a result of the Bush administration's interpretation of antitrust laws, the enforcement pipeline for major monopoly cases -- which can take years for prosecutors to develop -- is thin. During the Bush administration, the Justice Department did not file a single case against a dominant firm for violating the antimonopoly law. 
 Many smaller companies complaining of abusive practices by their larger rivals were so frustrated by the Bush administration's antitrust policy that they went to the European Commission and to Asian authorities. 
 Later this week, for instance, antitrust regulators at the European Commission are expected to announce its fine against Intel over charges that the company unlawfully provided rebates and price reductions to customers while pressuring them to avoid doing business with a smaller rival. Lawyers following the case say the fine could be as large as 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion), the largest penalty ever invoked by the Europeans in a monopoly case.
 Ms. Varney's new policy more closely aligns American antitrust policy on monopolies and predatory practices with the views of antitrust regulators at the European Commission.
 Herbert Hovenkamp, a leading antitrust scholar regarded as a centrist between those seeking more aggressive enforcement and those who generally argue for restraint, said the guidelines by the Bush administration were ''a brief for defendants.'' 
 He said that the repudiation of those guidelines by the Obama administration ''will almost certainly have a greater impact than the guidelines themselves had.''
 ''This will be bad news for heavyweights in the tech industries -- companies like Google and Microsoft,'' said Professor Hovenkamp, who teaches at the University of Iowa College of Law. 
 ''People aligned with plaintiffs will rejoice. Those aligned with defendants will wring their hands. A lot of law firms will be indifferent because they take money from both sides.'' 
 Ms. Varney said that the Obama administration was guided by the view that it was a major mistake during the outset of the Great Depression to relax antitrust enforcement, only to try to catch up and become more vigorous later. She said the mistake enabled many large companies to engage in pricing, wage and collusive practices that harmed consumers and took years to reverse.
 While Ms. Varney did not mention any specific companies or industries vulnerable under the new policy, those who have talked to her about the speech say she is aiming at agriculture, energy, health care, technology and telecommunications companies. She may also be reviewing the conduct of some in the financial services industry, which is now undergoing a wave of consolidation as a result of the financial crisis.
 Ms. Varney, who headed the Internet practice group of the Washington-based Hogan & Hartson law firm, served as a commissioner at the Federal Trade Commission in the 1990s after working in the White House during the early years of the Clinton administration. 
 Signaling her intent to revive a moribund antitrust program, she has recruited a collection of senior aides, many of whom are seasoned antitrust litigators or worked in the Clinton administration and the Federal Trade Commission and were involved in many prominent cases, including the one against Microsoft. They include Molly S. Boast, William Cavanaugh, Gene Kimmelman, Carl Shapiro and Philip J. Weiser. 
 Antitrust policy is set by Washington in two ways: by the interpretation of laws announced by the Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission through guidelines for the courts and private litigants, and by the enforcement cases that those agencies decide to bring. The government's guidelines are often cited by lawyers and given considerable weight by judges in antitrust cases, including those lawsuits that the government does not participate in.
 It is not unlawful for a company to gain control of a market. It becomes unlawful if the company engages in conduct to exclude or harm competitors with no business justification.
 Conservative antitrust experts, some judges and defendants in such cases have said that the line is too difficult to draw and that it is better to let rivalries play out in the marketplace than in the courts. 
 After more than a year of hearings and studies, the Justice Department in 2008 published a 215-page report analyzing Section 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act, explaining the government's approach to the monopolistic and predatory practices of companies. 
 Reflecting skepticism of the role of government in the marketplace, the 2008 report made formal a set of policies that had largely been followed by the Justice Department, but not by the Federal Trade Commission, during the Bush administration. 
 When the report was issued, Thomas Barnett, then the head of the antitrust division and the architect of the guidelines, said that they were meant to articulate ''clear standards'' for determining whether certain types of conduct by large companies would harm competition. 
 In a rare split with the Justice Department, three of the four commissioners at the Federal Trade Commission denounced the guidelines, calling them ''a blueprint for radically weakened enforcement'' against anticompetitive practices. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (97%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LITIGATION (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); MONOPOLIZATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); MARKET SHARE (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (56%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009



442 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Budget Gap Is Revised To Surpass $1.8 Trillion

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama has lately begun pointing to optimistic signs for the economy, but the continuing crisis still bedevils his budget projections and his domestic agenda.
 The administration, in final budget and tax details released Monday, disclosed a double wallop of bad news from government number-crunchers. First, its Office of Management and Budget reported that the economy had added -- both for this year and next -- $90 billion to the historically high deficit estimates the administration issued just two months ago.
 And the Treasuryreleased revised figures showing that Mr. Obama's proposal for financing fully half of his health care initiative over the next decade -- a 28 percent limit on deductions for Americans in the top two income tax brackets -- would raise $267 billion, or roughly $50 billion less than he initially projected. That further complicates the president's struggles, together with Democrats in Congress, to pay for overhauling health care. 
 To fill the revenue gap, the Treasury outlined several new ideas for raising nearly $60 billion over 10 years, mainly from tightening rules for inheritance taxes but also from changes in taxing some types of life insurance and other products.
 Separately, the chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Christina Romer, released a preliminary report standing by the administration's claim that the $787 billion, two-year economic stimulus package that became law in February will save or create 3.5 million jobs by the fourth quarter of 2010, compared with what would have happened without the spending and tax cuts. 
 The budget office's revised deficit projections bring the expected shortfall this fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30, to $1.84 trillion, from a February projection of $1.75 trillion. For the 2010 fiscal year, the new estimate is $1.26 trillion, up from $1.17 trillion. 
 Measured against the economy, this year's shortfall would be 12.9 percent of the gross domestic product. Next year's deficit would be 8.5 percent of G.D.P. Even before the revisions, the deficit projections were the highest in more than 60 years, since the end of World War II. 
 Economists generally agree a country's annual deficits should not exceed 3 percent of economic output. Mr. Obama, in his 10-year budget outline in February, projected the United States would fall just below that level in the last months of his term, in the 2013 fiscal year. Many analysts consider his economic assumptions too rosy, however, which casts doubt on his deficit forecast.
 The president's budget director, Peter R. Orszag, disclosed the deficit revisions Monday in his blog on the budget office's Web site. He said they were ''driven in large part by the economic crisis inherited by this administration.'' He cited Treasury estimates that revenue collections would be $30 billion to $50 billion less this year and next compared with February calculations, and higher-than-expected costs for bank bailouts.
 Congressional Democrats echoed the reference to the inheritance from President George W. Bush. ''It took eight years for the previous administration to dig this hole. It is going to take time to climb our way out,'' Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, said in a statement.
 Congressional Republicans seized on the new deficit projection to tweak the Democratic administration for its boast last week that its ''line-by-line scrub'' of the federal budget had produced proposals to save $17 billion in the 2010 fiscal year.
 The Senate Republican leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said in a statement that ''the administration acknowledged today that since the president took office, their projections for the deficit grew five times faster than the proposed cuts would save, and that's assuming all the cuts are enacted'' -- which they will not be, members of both parties in Congress say.
 Mr. Obama's proposal to limit high-income Americans' deductions had already hit a wall of opposition in Congress, with the Democratic chairmen of the House and Senate tax-writing committees, among others, objecting that it could depress tax-deductible contributions for charities, colleges and other recipients. The proposal was intended to raise $318 billion of a proposed $635 billion, 10-year reserve fund to introduce cost-saving changes into health care and to expand coverage to the uninsured; the other half was to come from Medicare savings.
 Of the new Treasury proposals to raise $60 billion through 2019, more than $24 billion would come from estate and gift taxes that would affect less than three-tenths of 1 percent of estates in any year, according to a senior Treasury official, who spoke to reporters on condition of anonymity. The main change would affect how a taxpayer values property transferred to a family member either at death or during the taxpayer's life.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peter Orszag, the budget director, who appeared with President Obama last week, disclosed the latest revisions in his blog.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (75%); ESTATE TAX (73%); LEGISLATION (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%); INCOME TAX (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); LIFE INSURANCE (51%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (58%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); CHRISTINA ROMER (59%); PETER ORSZAG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009



443 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: When 'Local' Makes It Big

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
WHEN Jessica Prentice, a food writer in the San Francisco Bay area, invented the term ''locavore,'' she didn't have Lay's potato chips in mind.
But never mind. On Tuesday, five potato farmers rang the bell of the New York Stock Exchange, kicking off a marketing campaign that is trying to position the nation's best-selling brand of potato chips as local food.
Five different ads will highlight farmers who grow some of the two billion pounds of starchy chipping potatoes the Frito-Lay company uses each year. One is Steve Singleton, who tends 800 acres in Hastings, Fla.
''We grow potatoes in Florida, and Lays makes potato chips in Florida,'' he says in the ad. ''It's a pretty good fit.'' 
Mr. Singleton's ad and the other four will be shown only in the farmer's home state. A national spot featuring all five potato farmers begins next week.
Frito-Lay is one of several big companies that, along with some large-scale farming concerns, are embracing a broad interpretation of what eating locally means. This mission creep has the original locavores choking on their yerba mate. But food executives who measure marketing budgets in the millions say they are mining the concept because consumers care more than ever about where their food comes from.
''Local for us has two appeals,'' said Aurora Gonzalez, director of public relations for Frito-Lay North America, which is owned by PepsiCo. ''We are interested in quality and quickness because we want consumers to get the freshest product possible, but we have a fairly significant sustainability program, and local is part of that. We want to do business more efficiently, but do it in a more environmentally conscious way.''
The original ''eat local'' movement, an amalgam of food and environmental politics, came of age a decade or so before the term locavore was coined in 2005.
To a certain set of believers, supporting locally grown food is part of a broad philosophical viewpoint that eschews large farming operations, the heavy use of chemicals and certain agricultural practices, like raising animals in large, confined areas.
''The local foods movement is about an ethic of food that values reviving small scale, ecological, place-based, and relationship-based food systems,'' Ms. Prentice said. ''Large corporations peddling junk food are the exact opposite of what this is about.''
But people on the other side of the argument say the widening view of what it means to eat locally is similar to the changes the term organic went through as it grew from a countercultural ideal in the 1960s and 1970s to an industry with nearly $25 billion in sales last year. A related debate about how to define sustainable farming is now gathering force in government, agriculture and business.
Concerns over food safety, quality and cost are driving people beyond hard-core locavores to seek out food that has traveled fewer miles and has a traceable provenance, said Stephanie Childs, a spokeswoman for the food conglomerate ConAgra.
The company recently began a marketing campaign to highlight its Hunt's canned tomatoes, most of which are grown within 120 miles of its Oakdale, Calif., processing plant.
Of course, the tomatoes would be local only to people in the area. But if the company can show consumers its tomatoes are grown near the plant that processes them, shoppers who want to know where their food comes from might be more apt to buy them.
''The problem is there is absolutely no way we can have local produce within 100 miles of every person in America, so the question is how do we take it to that next level,'' said Phil Lempert, a grocery industry analyst known as the Supermarket Guru who ConAgra recently hired to work on its Hunt's tomatoes promotion.
Other companies are embracing the term ''local'' in their own ways. Foster Farms, a $1 billion company that is the largest producer of poultry products on the West Coast, markets its fresh chicken and turkey as ''locally grown'' because it contracts with hundreds of local growers in the states where it operates.
Some producers are stretching local to mean locale, emphasizing the geographic origin of their food. Dairy products from California, oranges from Florida and almost anything made in Vermont are getting special attention from marketers. Kraft is trying to figure out whether people in Wisconsin will buy more pickles if they know the cucumbers that go into a jar of Claussen's are grown there.
''The ingenuity of the food manufacturers and marketers never ceases to amaze me,'' said Michael Pollan, the author of ''In Defense of Food'' and a contributor to The New York Times Magazine. ''They can turn any critique into a new way to sell food. You've got to hand it to them.''
Some people marketing their big-scale food on a small-scale level understand that. They say they're not pretending to be something they are not.
''This is celebrating the notion of community,'' said Dave Skena, vice president for potato-chip marketing of Frito-Lay. ''We don't use the term 'locally grown' because that's a personal issue for so many people.''
Large farms usually given over to commodity crops are also having a local moment, driven in large part by economics.
In central California, the Sacramento County Farm Bureau recently started a ''Grow and Buy Local'' initiative with a $50,000 grant from the county.
Part of the money is being used to encourage 3,000 area farmers whose fields are filled with feed grain, safflower and other commodity crops to plant acres of grocery store crops like strawberries or artichokes, or to hold some fruit, like pears, back from the canner.
That fresh produce can then be marketed as local and sold to nearby institutions like hospitals and jails that want to buy food raised nearby. And some of it can fill farm stands, which helps satisfy consumers who want to buy local fruits and vegetables and don't care as much about, say, farm size or organic practices, said Charlotte Mitchell, the executive director of the county farm bureau and a Foster Farms turkey rancher.
''We have to continue to feed the world, but we need to make people aware that going to that local strawberry stand is so important, too,'' she said.
For some big agricultural interests, promoting local food has a protectionist bent. Sales of Virginia apples were hurt a few years ago when Chinese apples flooded the market, said Martha Moore, director of governmental relations for the 38,000-member Virginia Farm Bureau.
Those kinds of threats from imported food is one reason her agency started a local food marketing program last year.
''If promoting local agriculture will help America to become food independent, that's what we want,'' she said.
She doesn't buy into all the values many local food advocates hold dear, like cage-free eggs; limited use of herbicides, fertilizers and other chemicals; and small farms.
''We don't think the argument should be about the size of the farm,'' she said. ''It should be, 'Do you know the farmer and where is the farmer from?' You can have good and bad actors in any size farm.''
For hard-core locavores, watching the food industry adopt their language is frustrating. But it also means things are changing.
''You know the locavore phenomenon is having an impact when the corporations begin co-opting it,'' Ms. Prentice said. ''Everyone should know where things are processed. The 'where' question is really important.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GROWING: Big brands are pitching products to the same consumers who buy local berries.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1)
CALIFORNIA FARE: Lo Saetern sells local strawberries. Brian Kirschenmann, top, a potato farmer, is in an ad for Lay's. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMY TIERNEY)(pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POTATO FARMING (90%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); SNACK FOODS (90%); WRITERS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); BUDGETS (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); SNACK FOOD MFG (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); ETHICS (63%); STOCK EXCHANGES (57%)

COMPANY: FRITO-LAY INC (92%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); PEPSICO INC (54%)

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (92%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2011



444 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Optimism in the Mormon Heartland

BYLINE: By LINDA BAKER

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY 

 BODY:
While the economic crisis has silenced hundreds of real estate projects around the country, 1,100 construction workers are toiling on a 20-acre development here that is springing up across the street from the Mormon Temple in the center of downtown. 
 A private development of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, City Creek Center will be the largest mixed-use project in Salt Lake City. When completed in 2012, it will encompass 900,000 square feet of retailing, including an outdoor pedestrian shopping mall capped by 115 apartments; 1.6 million square feet of office space in eight buildings; a grocery store; and five residential towers with about 600 condominiums.
 The development, which is within sight of the Mormon Tabernacle, will also feature six acres of public spaces and a retractable glass roof over the retail component. A man-made creek will run through the property.
 The Mormon Church, which has its headquarters in the city, is investing ''hundreds of millions of dollars'' in the project, said Mark Gibbons, president of City Creek Reserve Inc., a real estate arm of the church, while declining to be more specific. The project will reshape downtown, Mr. Gibbons said. ''We believe there won't be anything anywhere that compares with it,'' he said. 
 City Creek is not immune to the recession, Mr. Gibbons conceded. But he said the church has always had a ''debt averse'' philosophy that is proving especially helpful in the current climate.
 ''For which of you intending to build a tower does not first count the cost to see if he have money to complete, so he doesn't look like a fool,'' said Mr. Gibbons, paraphrasing Luke 14:28-29. ''We set aside reserves to build this project, we counted the cost before we started, and we have the resources to complete.'' 
 Bounded by the Great Salt Lake and the Wasatch and Oquirrh mountain ranges, Salt Lake City is home to 200,000 people, about 40 percent of them Mormons. It is a center for outdoor recreation, with several ski areas within 30 minutes of the city; a financial services hub, and a film festival mecca. 
 But the Mormon Church also wields considerable clout as the city's largest employer and landowner. ''We don't have a Microsoft or Coca-Cola,'' said Jason Mathis, executive director of the Downtown Alliance. ''In many ways, the L.D.S. church fills that role.''
 Now the church is a bringing a high-density, mixed-use project to Salt Lake City, with its own imprint: outsized, environmentally friendly and with a history of controversy. Two other companies have taken relatively small stakes in parts of the project.
 Located at the intersection of the city's primary commercial and ecclesiastical corridors, Main and South Temple Streets, the City Creek site, which is owned by the church, previously housed two poorly performing malls.
 When Nordstrom, which anchored one of the shopping centers, threatened to leave seven years ago, Mormon leaders decided it was time for a makeover. The mayor at the time, Rocky Anderson, called enclosed malls ''a failed paradigm,'' and the church eventually agreed to a design that is much more open than the former malls.
 To integrate the project with the surrounding neighborhood, City Creek planners put all parking underground and carved new streets into Salt Lake City's monolithic 10-acre blocks -- a legacy of the church's founder, Joseph Smith, who developed a plan for the ''City of Zion'' in 1833.
 The project features sweeping promenades and urban plazas ''in line with the great plazas in Italy,'' said Joe Collins, a project architect with Zimmer Gunsul Frasca. Fountains that include fire and bells -- designed by the company responsible for water features at the Bellagio hotel in Las Vegas -- will grace one of the plazas. ''It's going to be marvelous,'' Mr. Gibbons said.
 City Creek's two-story 100-store retail center consists of several structures and will be developed by Taubman Centers, a developer based in Michigan, which is investing $75 million. 
 Its chief operating officer, William S. Taubman, said he had re-signed Macy's and Nordstrom as anchor tenants, but declined to comment on the number of additional commitments he had secured. The center, which will open in 2012, will provide more upscale shopping than currently found in Salt Lake City, he said.
 Nationwide, about 12 other major shopping centers were scheduled to open in the next year, Mr. Taubman said, but almost all of them have been delayed. City Creek is one of the few that has not been hampered by the economic downturn, he said. 
 Signs of the church's financial strength -- and managerial approach -- abound. City Creek's retractable glass roof will provide protection for shoppers during inclement weather. It would not be feasible without the deep coffers of the church, Mr. Collins said.
 In keeping with religious dictates, the mall will be closed on Sundays, and only a few establishments, located on land whose title is held by Taubman Centers, will be allowed to serve alcohol. 
 Elements of the project are controversial. Some people scoff at the plan to use potable water to evoke City Creek, which determined the location of the city but which will remain underground. 
 ''It's the Disneyfication of what for many of us who are not members of the church find to be our sacred places, the natural environment,'' said Stephen A. Goldsmith, a former city planning director who first approached the church with the mixed-use proposal for the City Creek property in 2002.
 A sky bridge to be built over Main Street, where a light rail train operates, has also drawn criticism on the grounds it would mute street-level activity. 
 But Mr. Goldsmith, who now teaches at the University of Utah, is in favor of many aspects of the project. ''To think we are going to have thousands of people living downtown -- it's something we only dreamed about,'' he said 
 About 30 percent of the condos in City Creek's Richards Court, a 10-story twin tower opening this year, have sold, Mr. Gibbons said. So far, most of the buyers are church members who will pay more than $900,000 for a one-bedroom unit with a view of the temple. ''It's the equivalent of living across the street from the Vatican or the Wailing Wall,'' said Babs De Lay, a local real estate agent. ''They will pay anything for this location.''
 To accommodate the retail and residential components, City Creek developers demolished two office buildings. The ensuing demand led to the construction of 222 South Main Street, a $125 million tower a block from City Creek that will open in November. 
 Downtown Salt Lake has always had ''good bones,'' Mr. Gibbons said. But multiuse development is the future of the city -- and the church, he said. ''The existence of the temple dictates that our headquarters always be here,'' he said. ''We have a vested interest in making certain the vitality of this area.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: City Creek Center, to open in 2012, is rising on 20 acres across from Temple Square in the heart of Salt Lake City. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE MORGENTHAU FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) DRAWING: A rendering of the mixed-use center. The development, backed by the Mormon Church, has not been impeded by the financial downturn. (DRAWING BY CITY CREEK RESERVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORMONS & MORMONISM (93%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (91%); RELIGION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); SKIING (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); LAKES (71%); RETAILERS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); MOUNTAINS (61%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (58%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (51%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (96%) UTAH, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



445 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 879 words

PERSON: R. B. Choate Jr. 

HEADLINE: R. B. Choate Jr., Food Lobbyist, 84, Dies

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Robert B. Choate Jr., who gave up an engineering career to devote himself to fighting against poverty and malnutrition, seizing national attention in 1970 by telling a Senate subcommittee that most breakfast cereals barely qualify to be called food, died on May 3 in Lemon Grove, Calif. He was 84.
 Mr. Choate's son Valerian said he died as the result of a medical condition that prevented him from swallowing. 
 Mr. Choate, superficially a tweedy, bow-tied Boston Brahmin, decided in midlife that he wanted to rankle feathers. An early step was publishing a magazine in Phoenix, where he moved in the late 1950s, that deliberately irritated the city's conservative establishment. Soon he was at the center of a roiling national discussion of how to best use America's agricultural bounty to nourish its people.
 ''He was one of a half-dozen people who brought health and malnutrition to the eyes of the public,'' Nick Kotz, author of ''Let Them Eat Promises: The Politics of Hunger'' (1969), said in an interview.
 In hearings before a Senate subcommittee on consumers in July 1970, Mr. Choate, a self-described ''citizen lobbyist,'' testified that 40 of the 60 leading breakfast cereals were so low in nutritional content that they constituted ''empty calories.'' He displayed a detailed chart of the nutritional components of the 60 cereals to argue that many cereals were no healthier than candy bars or gin.
 A public firestorm erupted. ''Snap, Crackle, Flop,'' a Newsweek magazine headline said. Time magazine asked, ''Breakfast of Chumps?''
 The cereal industry counterattacked, saying that Mr. Choate had failed to factor in the nutritional value of milk poured on the cereal. He promptly drafted a new chart, milk included. The companies contended that lots of sugar was needed to entice children to eat. Mr. Choate countered that a taste for sugar is acquired.
 The companies were quick to point out that Mr. Choate was an engineer, not a nutritionist. An unidentified Kellogg's spokesman said in an interview with The Christian Science Monitor: ''We feel Mr. Choate is a very talented individual, particularly if he's digging ditches or building bridges.''
 Mr. Choate said his role was to be a catalyst, not a scientist. He told The Monitor that he was someone who ''plays the citizen role in a rather more blatant fashion than most.''
 In fact, within two years of Mr. Choate's initial blast, the companies had significantly increased the nutritional content of many cereals, but the best-sellers continued to be those at the bottom of Mr. Choate's nutritional-value list. Federal authorities began requiring some nutritional labeling in 1974 and mandated it for most foods two decades later.
 Robert Burnett Choate Jr. was born in Boston on Nov. 6, 1924. He came from a family of senators, ambassadors and other public men. His father was publisher of The Boston Herald. Young Robert was influenced by a grandmother who worked in settlement houses. 
 Mr. Choate graduated from the Phillips Exeter Academy in 1943 and attended Harvard under a Navy officer-training program. He then served in the Pacific during World War II before earning an engineering degree from the University of California, Berkeley. Afterward he worked as an engineer.
 The turning point in his life came while he was recuperating from a bout of hepatitis. Reading extensively about racial and social matters, he decided to devote his life to social causes, effectively giving up an engineering career. 
 He said in an interview with The New York Times in 1966 that he decided to ''wake up the hidebound establishments of this state.'' His initiatives included feeding the hungry, youth training, a failed try at supplanting California orange juice with Arizona's own and a caustic short-lived magazine, Reveille. The magazine's subjects were as varied as the ''dubious value'' of some of the art in the Phoenix Art Museum and accusations of complacency on the part of the city's black leadership.
 Financing his activities through a foundation he set up, Mr. Choate grew eager for a larger stage. In 1965, he put together a conference in Phoenix on poverty in the Southwest. Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey and R. Sargent Shriver, then the director of the Office of Economic Opportunity, attended.
 Mr. Choate arrived in Washington in 1966, and he and his wife at the time, Laura Jean Emery, knowing virtually no one in town, visited the offices of all 535 members of Congress in just a few days to discuss hunger and malnutrition, Mr. Kotz said. Mr. Choate worked as a consultant for the Nixon administration on nutrition issues and helped set up a White House conference on food and hunger issues in 1969.
 Mr. Choate is survived by his daughter Karen Holland, from his first marriage, to Audrey Evans. From his second marriage, to Ms. Emery, he is survived by his sons Christopher and Valerian, and his daughter Katrinka Johnson. He is also survived by three grandchildren.
 In 1970, Mr. Choate founded the Council on Children, Media and Merchandising to call attention to commercials intended for children, which he characterized as a tug of war between 200-pound men and 60-pound youngsters. Where others might use the verb ''advertised,'' he deemed ''huckstered'' more appropriate. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert B. Choate Jr. in 1972, in one of several Senate visits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE LIEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MALNUTRITION (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (90%); NUTRITION (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); POLITICS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); WRITERS (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (73%); FOOD LABELING (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (70%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: KELLOGG CO (58%); NEWSWEEK INC (54%)

TICKER: K (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (58%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (58%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (58%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Food and Restaurants, Politics and Government (U.S.), Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



446 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: The Great Break-In

BYLINE: By JENNA WORTHAM

 BODY:
The iPhone can teach its users how to perform CPR, mix a White Russian and allow them identify any song playing on the radio.
 But for some owners of the Apple touch-screen device, the 35,000-plus applications lining the digital shelves of Apple's App Store are not enough. If you want to use your iPhone as a video camera, send a photo message or hook it up to your laptop to connect to the Internet, there's no app for that.
 Or at least, no official app.
 Through the efforts of developers and hobbyists, the Web is teeming with unauthorized applications for the iPhone and the iPod Touch (which does everything that the iPhone does except make phone calls and incur a monthly bill from AT&T), and there are even some independent online application stores. 
 However, in order to use these programs, iPhone owners have to ''jailbreak'' their device -- downloading a bit of software that bypasses Apple's restrictions and allows the installation of unsanctioned third-party programs.
 The growing popularity of jailbreaking has set up a legal battle between Apple, which says it has the right to regulate what can go on an iPhone, and the users and developers who want to customize their phones as they see fit.
 Jailbreaking is different from unlocking an iPhone, in which users modify the software so the phone can be used on unauthorized wireless carriers. For some iPhone hobbyists, like Mark Janke, jailbreaking is akin to customizing a fancy car -- it simply allows owners to personalize the look of their devices, turning their phones into a brag-worthy accessory and status symbol. 
 ''You can modify your phone and say, 'Hey, look what I did,' '' said Mr. Janke, who runs a forum called Hack That Phone, which walks iPhone owners through the jailbreaking process in several languages, including Swedish and Persian. ''It opens up an amazing world of goodies.''
 But according to Apple, jailbreaking is illegal and a breach of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. ''These modifications not only violate the warranty, they also cause the iPhone to become unstable and not work reliably,'' said Natalie Kerris, a spokeswoman for Apple.
 In a legal filing with the United States Copyright Office last year, Apple says jailbroken iPhones rely on modified versions of Apple's operating software that infringe on its copyrights. 
 In addition, the company says jailbreaking encourages the piracy of approved iPhone applications and is an expensive burden.''Apple's iPhone support department has received literally millions of reported incidents of software that crashes on jailbroken iPhones,'' the document says. 
 Apple filed its brief in response to the Electronic Frontier Foundation's request that the copyright office recognize an exemption to the digital copyright act that would permit jailbreaking of iPhones and other devices. The copyright office is expected to rule on the issue by October.
 Jailbreaking your own iPhone does not infringe on any copyright, and the tools that help iPhone owners modify their devices do not distribute anything that belongs to Apple, said Fred von Lohmann, a senior staff lawyer with the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a nonprofit group that advocates more openness on the Internet. ''In our view, consumers are allowed to adapt software for their own personal use,'' he said.
 For developers, bypassing Apple's lengthy and opaque approval process allows them to get their software out quickly and on their own terms. Most iPhone owners who jailbreak their phones do so to change the interface of the iPhone or add simple features and functions that are not available through official channels, said Jay Freeman, who operates Cydia, a popular repository for thousands of third-party iPhone applications and modifications.
 For example, Mr. Freeman's site offers two popular applications that he wrote: Cycorder, a free program that allows iPhones to record video, and Cyntact, a $1 program that adds profile pictures to the iPhone's address book. 
 Another developer offers a $9.99 application, iPhoneModem, through Cydia that permits the iPhone to share its Internet connection with a computer, a practice known as tethering, which cellular carriers frown upon. 
 Mr. Freeman estimates that his platform for apps has been installed on about 2.3 million iPhones and iPod Touch devices. In April, Apple said it had sold 37 million iPhones and iPod Touches to date.
 To counter jailbreaking, Apple releases updates for the operating system software that can render jailbroken phones useless. But the company's efforts amount to an elaborate game of whack-a-mole as rogue programmers quickly counter their efforts with their own software updates.
 So far, the company has not gone after any specific developers or Web sites that assist people in jailbreaking their iPhones, said Mr. von Lohmann, but given Apple's penchant for exerting control over its products, it could.
 The foundation argues that Apple's real goal is to limit competition with its App Store, which has been wildly successful since Apple opened its digital doors in July. Since then, more than a billion apps, both free and paid, have been downloaded. Gene Munster, a senior research analyst at the Piper Jaffray investment firm, estimates that the App Store will have generated roughly $617 million in revenue by the end of 2009. 
 Mario Ciabarra, the operator of a smaller application shop called Rock Your Phone, worries that Apple could quash competitors by simply including the more popular jailbroken iPhone modifications in the third version of the iPhone operating system, due out this summer. 
 Mr. Ciabarra, whose site offers nine applications for download through a platform he developed himself, says his products have had half a million downloads since mid-March. 
 ''There's no reason Apple couldn't offer the products we're offering,'' Mr. Ciabarra said. Like Apple, Mr. Freeman and Mr. Ciabarra take a commission of up to 30 percent from developers selling software through their stores. 
 In addition to commissions, Mr. Freeman says he makes money from selling applications he created, advertisements on the site, and sponsorships from developers who want their applications featured on Cydia's home page. All together, he said he earns enough from the site to support himself.
 Mr. Freeman said he was not worried about the competition from Apple or the potential ramifications of operating an unsanctioned software platform. ''I don't even understand why they're trying to fight an entire community,'' he said. 
 William H. Greene, a professor of economics at New York University who studies digital entertainment, said most jailbreaking software is free and does not hurt sales of the iPhone. Some applications available through the independent channels had been rejected by Apple for inclusion in its store. ''It's hard to see where Apple is being harmed by this,'' he said.
 Apple would have more leverage with its copyright claims if it could prove that jailbreaking is harming its business. ''If the jailbreaker, the individual phone owner, were somehow trying to profit, then they might have a case,'' Mr. Greene said. Apple is also well within its rights to crack down on pirated copies of legitimate applications, he said.
 Mr. Ciabarra, who writes unauthorized apps because the iPhone is ''too fun to pass up playing with,'' sympathizes with Apple's position -- to a point. 
 ''They're worried about malware being distributed and third-party developers interfering with the stability of their product,'' he said. ''We just feel users should be able to decide for themselves if they want to deal with that.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 16, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about unauthorized applications for the iPhone and iPod Touch overstated the capabilities of the iPod Touch. In addition to not being a phone, it lacks some other features of the iPhone, including a camera. It does not do everything the iPhone does except make phone calls. The error also appeared in an article on April 5 about the creator of a popular application for the iPhone.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); COPYRIGHT (89%); COPYRIGHT LAW (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (86%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (76%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (75%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (74%); US DIGITAL MILLENNIUM COPYRIGHT ACT (74%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (73%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (72%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (71%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



447 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Markets End Day Searching for Direction

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Investors struggled to find a reason on Tuesday to extend Wall Street's two-month rally, but at the end of the day, only the Dow was able to finish higher.
 Investors shifted to sectors that tend to hold up better in economic downturns. That drove up shares of drug makers like Pfizer and food and drink companies like Coca-Cola.
 Some traders continued to worry that the economic recovery would not be as brisk as many hoped when stocks were posting big gains in the last eight weeks. Several stock offerings from companies trying to raise cash have stirred concerns this week about the value of shares already in the market. 
 With little news to excite investors, financial stocks fell for a second day. Even after sliding this week, bank shares have doubled since early March, as measured by the KBW bank index. The huge advance has some analysts saying those stocks are overdue for more selling.
 But the dip has also brought investors looking to jump into the market, which has rallied more than 30 percent since early March.
 ''You have people who missed this mammoth rally, and now those people are taking the opportunity on any pullback to buy,'' said Jeffrey Frankel, president of Stuart Frankel & Company in New York.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 50.34 points, or 0.6 percent, to 8,469.11 after falling 155 points on Monday. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 0.89, or 0.1 percent, to 908.35. Investors also pulled money from technology stocks after the Nasdaq composite index closed at a six-month high last week. On Tuesday, the Nasdaq fell 15.32 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,715.92.
 Retailers fell ahead of a government report on retail sales due Wednesday. Quarterly results will also be coming from Macy's on Wednesday and Wal-Mart Stores on Thursday.
 Consumer spending accounts for more than two-thirds of economic activity, so investors will be closely watching forecasts from retailers to discern whether the economy is stabilizing.
 Analysts said a break in the market's ascent had been overdue after the S.& P. 500 jumped more than 35 percent since early March. The run-up came as economic and corporate reports signaled the economy could be stabilizing, though in many cases not improving.
 ''We need to see not just the promise of recovery, but actual data,'' said Uri Landesman, head of global growth strategies at ING Investment Management. ''The worst of the bear market is certainly behind us, but it doesn't mean it's going to be straight up.''
 Detroit also caught the attention of investors worried about the value of their shares being diluted. The Ford Motor Company announced plans to raise cash through a common stock offering. Unlike General Motors and Chrysler, Ford has been able to avoid government aid amid a sharp downturn in auto sales.
 Ford fell $1.07, or 17.6 percent, to $5.01.
 G.M. shares tumbled to $1.15, their lowest level since 1933 as investors worried that their shares would lose value if more are issued or the company declares bankruptcy. The company faces a June 1 reorganization deadline.
 The Treasury's 10-year note was unchanged at 99 19/32. The yield was also unchanged at 3.17 percent.
 Following are the results of Tuesday's Treasury auction of four-week bills and 321-day cash management bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE DOW MINUTE BY MINUTE (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 THE FAVORITES (Source: Charles Schwab) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); RETAILERS (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); COMMON STOCK (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (72%); RETAIL SALES (63%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); FRANKEL & CO (67%); PFIZER INC (58%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); ING GROEP NV (56%); WAL-MART STORES INC (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFEB (BRU) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%); KO (NYSE) (57%); INGA (BIT) (56%); INGA (AMS) (56%); ING (NYSE) (56%); WMT (NYSE) (53%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (67%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (53%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



448 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Cargo Ships Treading Water Off Singapore, Waiting for Work

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: SINGAPORE 

 BODY:
To go out in a small boat along Singapore's coast now is to feel like a mouse tiptoeing through an endless herd of slumbering elephants.
 One of the largest fleets of ships ever gathered idles here just outside one of the world's busiest ports, marooned by the receding tide of global trade. There may be tentative signs of economic recovery in spots around the globe, but few here.
 Hundreds of cargo ships -- some up to 300,000 tons, with many weighing more than the entire 130-ship Spanish Armada -- seem to perch on top of the water rather than in it, their red rudders and bulbous noses, submerged when the vessels are loaded, sticking a dozen feet out of the water.
 So many ships have congregated here -- 735, according to AIS Live tracking service of Lloyd's Register-Fairplay Research, a ship tracking service based in Gothenburg, Sweden -- that shipping lines are becoming concerned about near misses and collisions in one of the world's most congested waterways, the Strait of Malacca, which separates Malaysia and Singapore from Indonesia. 
 The root of the problem lies in an unusually steep slump in global trade, confirmed by trade statistics announced on Tuesday.
 China said that its exports nose-dived 22.6 percent in April from a year earlier, while the Philippines said that its exports in March were down 30.9 percent from a year earlier. The United States announced on Tuesday that its exports had declined 2.4 percent in March.
 ''The March 2009 trade data reiterates the current challenges in our global economy,'' said Ron Kirk, the United States trade representative.
 More worrisome, despite some positive signs like a Wall Street rally and slower job losses in the United States, is that the current level of trade does not suggest a recovery soon, many in the shipping business say.
 ''A lot of the orders for the retail season are being placed now, and compared to recent years, they are weak,'' said Chris Woodward, the vice president for container services at Ryder System, the big logistics company.
 Western consumers still adjusting to losses in value of their stocks and homes are in little mood to start spending again on nonessential imports, said Joshua Felman, the assistant director of the Asia and Pacific division of the International Monetary Fund. ''For trade to pick up, demand has to pick up,'' he said. ''It's very difficult to see that happening any time soon.''
 So badly battered is the shipping industry that the daily rate to charter a large bulk freighter suitable for carrying, say, iron ore, plummeted from close to $300,000 last summer to a low of $10,000 early this year, according to H. Clarkson & Company, a London ship brokerage.
 The rate has rebounded to nearly $25,000 in the last several weeks, and some bulk carriers have left Singapore. But ship owners say this recovery may be short-lived because it mostly reflects a rush by Chinese steel makers to import iron ore before a possible price increase next month.
 Container shipping is also showing faint signs of revival, but remains deeply depressed. And more empty tankers are showing up here.
 The cost of shipping a 40-foot steel container full of merchandise from southern China to northern Europe tumbled from $1,400 plus fuel charges a year ago to as little as $150 early this year, before rebounding to around $300, which is still below the cost of providing the service, said Neil Dekker, a container industry forecaster at Drewry Shipping Consultants in London. 
 Eight small companies in the industry have gone bankrupt in the last year and at least one of the major carriers is likely to fail this year, he said.
 Vessels have flocked to Singapore because it has few storms, excellent ship repair teams, cheap fuel from its own refinery and, most important, proximity to Asian ports that might eventually have cargo to ship.
 The gathering of so many freighters ''is extraordinary,'' said Christopher PRated Glsson, a senior consultant at Lloyd's Register-Fairplay Research, a ship tracking service. ''We have probably not witnessed anything like this since the early 1980s,'' during the last big bust in the global shipping industry.
 The world's fleet has nearly doubled since the early 1980s, so the tonnage of vessels in and around Singapore's waters this spring may be the highest ever, he said, cautioning that detailed worldwide ship tracking data has been available only for the last five years.
 These vessels total more than 41 million tons, according to the AIS Live tracking service. That is nearly equal to the entire world's merchant fleet at the end of World War I, and represents almost 4 percent of the world's fleet today.
 Investment trusts have poured billions of dollars over the last five years into buying ships and leasing them for a year at a time to shipping lines. As the leases expire and many of these vessels are returned, losses will be heavy at these trusts and the mainly European banks that lent to them, said Stephen Fletcher, the commercial director for AXS Marine, a consulting firm based in Paris.
 In previous shipping downturns, vessels anchored for months at a time in Norwegian fjords and other cold-weather locations. But stringent environmental regulations in practically every cold-weather country are forcing idle ships to warmer anchorages.
 But that raises security concerns. Plants grow much faster on the undersides of vessels in warm water. ''You end up with the hanging gardens of Babylon on the bottom and that affects your speed,'' said Tim Huxley, the chief executive of Wah Kwong Maritime Transport, a shipping line based in Hong Kong.
 One of the company's freighters became so overgrown that it was barely able to outrun pirates off Somalia recently, Mr. Huxley said. The freighter escaped with 91 bullet holes in it. 
 Another of the company's freighters close to Singapore was hit last December by a chemical tanker that could not make a tight enough turn in a crowded anchorage; neither vessel was seriously damaged.
 Capt. M. Segar, the group director for Singapore's central port, said in a written reply to questions that many vessels were staying just outside the port's limits. They do not have to pay port fees there.
 Singapore has complained to the countries of registry about 10 to 15 ships that have anchored in sea lanes in violation of international rules in the last two weeks, Captain Segar said.
 Ships are anchoring at other ports around the world, too. There were 150 vessels in and around the Straits of Gibraltar on Monday, and 300 around Rotterdam, the Netherlands, according to the AIS Live tracking service.
 But Singapore, close to Asian markets, has attracted far more.
 ''It is a sign of the times,'' said AIS Martin Stopford, the managing director of Clarkson Research Service in London, ''that Asia is the place you want to hang around this time in case things turn around.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sunrise in the Strait of Malacca between Indonesia and Malaysia, where 735 cargo ships sat empty on Tuesday because of a sharp decline in global exports. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES PERTWEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
 Empty ships near Singapore harbor on Tuesday. No rebound is expected soon in the global export business despite hints of economic recovery in the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES PERTWEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE VESSELS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (77%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: H CLARKSON & CO LTD (60%); LLOYD'S REGISTER QUALITY ASSURANCE LTD (56%); RYDER SYSTEM INC (52%)

TICKER: R (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (52%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (52%)

PERSON: RON KIRK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); MALAYSIA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



449 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Bribery Inquiry at Manufacturer MAN

BYLINE: By JUDY DEMPSEY; David Jolly contributed reporting from Paris.

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
German prosecutors have started a sweeping investigation into bribery accusations at MAN, the truck maker and one of biggest industrial companies in the country, over suspected efforts to increase sales illegally across Europe. 
 Investigators raided 59 MAN sites and seven homes in searches that lasted about a week, the prosecutors' office in Munich said on Tuesday. More than 100 people have been questioned and two were arrested, though one was later released, the office said. The suspects, including employees at MAN and potential customers, are being investigated over bribery and tax evasion allegations, the office said. 
 Bribes were paid to employees and customers inside and outside Germany to procure sales of trucks and buses, according to the chief prosecutor in the case, Manfred Notzel. 
 Mr. Notzel also said he suspected that in some cases bribes had been paid through shadow companies in Malta, the Bahamas, the British Virgin Islands, Cyprus, London and New York. 
 The bribes paid within Germany totaled about 1 million euros ($1.36 million), but could run into millions outside Germany, Mr. Notzel said. 
 Dominique Nadelhofer, a spokesman for MAN, said prosecutors were concentrating on the marketing and sales divisions and customers. The management has not been implicated, he said. 
 MAN, which is based in Munich, said on Tuesday that it had hired an auditing firm to work with its own auditing department to clear up suspicion of improper commission payments. 
 ''We have no idea how long the external auditing will last given the size of the company,'' said Mr. Nadelhofer said. ''In any case, we are definitely cooperating fully with the state prosecutors.'' 
 The investigation at MAN follows a scandal at Siemens, the industrial conglomerate, which was one of the biggest bribery cases in business history. 
 In December, Siemens agreed to pay about $1.6 billion to American and European authorities to settle charges that it had paid an estimated $1.4 billion in bribes to secure huge public works contracts around the world. 
 A German court ordered Siemens, also based in Munich, to pay fines of $1.34 billion after lawyers and accountants uncovered bribes totaling 1.3 billion euros, paid from 1999 to 2006. About $800 million was paid to the United States, the largest fine ever imposed under American antibribery laws. 
 The investigation is a major embarrassment for MAN, which has more than 50,000 employees worldwide, most of them based in Germany. More than 300 police officers, tax experts and prosecutors were involved in the investigation, the prosecutors said. 
 The prosecutors said the bribes began several years ago at MAN, which is also one of the leading European manufacturers of commercial vehicles, engines and mechanical engineering equipment, with annual sales of about 14.9 billion euros. 
 Joachim Schlange, a corporate responsibility consultant based in Hamburg, said MAN's response showed that it had learned the lessons of the Siemens case. ''They've taken a proactive approach in seeking to discover both what happened and how it could have happened,'' he said. 
 Bribery definitively became a crime in Germany only in 2004, when the country adopted the Anti-Bribery Convention established by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Until then, bribery could be claimed as a business cost under the rubric of ''useful expenditures.'' 
 For companies seeking to avoid unpleasant surprises like bribery investigations, Mr. Schlange said, it is important to have a proper code of conduct and to encourage workers to report breaches. After the Siemens scandal, MAN appointed two ombudsmen to accept tips from whistle-blowers in the company and investigate possible breaches of corporate standards. 
 Despite the global economic crisis, MAN reported an operating profit for the first quarter. The company had orders of 2.2 billion euros, compared with 3.48 billion euros a year earlier. Operating profit fell 76 percent, to 100 million euros. Revenue dropped a 27 percent, to 2.5 billion euros. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 19, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about a German investigation into bribery accusations at the truck maker MAN misstated the history of antibribery laws in the country. Bribery of foreign officials became a crime in Germany in 1998, after it adopted the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's convention on the matter -- not in 2004. (German laws have banned domestic bribery since 1909.)
An article on Wednesday about a German investigation into bribery accusations at the truck maker MAN misstated the history of antibribery laws in the country. Bribery of foreign officials became a crime in Germany in 1998, after it adopted the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's convention on the matter -- not in 2004. (German laws have banned domestic bribery since 1909.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MAN, based in Munich, makes trucks and commercial vehicles. Two people have been arrested in an investigation of bribery accusations against the company, and one was later released. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOERG KOCH/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESS -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRIBERY (94%); INVESTIGATIONS (93%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MFG (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); SCANDALS (78%); SALES PROSPECTING (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ACCOUNTING (75%); TAX CONSULTING (75%); TAX LAW (75%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); EURO (72%); AUDITS (70%); LAWYERS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (85%)

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (85%); SIE (LSE) (85%); SIE (FRA) (85%); SIE (BIT) (85%); SI (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (85%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); CYPRUS (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BAHAMAS (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, BRITISH (71%); MALTA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



450 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Pay-Per-Click Web Advertisers Combat Costly Fraud

BYLINE: By SUSANNA HAMNER

 BODY:
GIVEN the state of the automobile industry and the economy, it is understandably a rough time to run a company called NewCars.com, a subsidiary of Cars.com.
 As the company, based in Santa Monica, Calif., tries to ride out the economic downturn, the last thing it needs is to get tricked by people trying to game the online pay-per-click advertising system.
 But, according to Cars.com, that is what has been happening. Over the last year, a substantial number of clicks on NewCars .com ads have come from Bulgaria, Indonesia and the Czech Republic, countries where the company does no business. 
 In pay-per-click, advertisers pay a search engine every time a Web surfer clicks on their links; click fraud refers to clicks made simply to make money for the sites that carry the links or to damage a competitor. 
 Marketers say the situation is worsening because of the economic downturn.
 ''Click fraud is a serious problem, and we're aggressively trying to fight it,'' said Isabel Sopoglian, vice president of online marketing for Cars.com. ''In this tough time, it's important for advertisers to not waste dollars.''
 But according to the click fraud detection business Click Forensics, marketers are wasting more money than ever. Because of the troubled economy, companies have shifted their advertising dollars to more cost-effective formats like pay-per-click advertising, which was the only form of Internet advertising that grew last year. It accounted for 57 percent of Internet advertising in 2008, up from 52 percent in 2007, according to the Interactive Advertising Bureau, a trade group representing online advertisers. 
 ''The recession caused more companies to shift dollars to pay-per-click advertising because it's a more effective and measurable form of advertising, and the rise in the ad dollars increased the click fraud rate,'' said Tom Cuthbert, president of Click Forensics. ''These issues combined meant more customers turning to us for help.''
 Click Forensics, based in Austin, Tex., concluded that in the fourth quarter of 2008, 17 percent of all online ad clicks were fraudulent. Google and Yahoo are the two biggest pay-per-click ad networks. 
 Search engines like Google say that they have the problem under control. Google says that advertisers contend that fraudulent clicks account for just 0.02 percent of all online activity. If Google and an advertiser agree that a click is fraudulent, it offers the advertiser a credit.
 (In 2006, Google settled a $90 million lawsuit after advertisers argued that it had not given them adequate compensation for fraudulent online ad clicks.)
 ''We are working hard as ever'' to protect customers from fraud ''and to innovate to detect click fraud,'' said Shuman Ghosemajumder, Google's business product manager of trust and safety. ''And we're getting fewer questions from advertisers about click fraud.'' 
 Reggie Davis, vice president of network quality for Yahoo, says he believes that Google's click fraud rate of less than 1 percent is not accurate. ''We've disclosed that our rate, before hiring Click Forensics, was between 12 and 15 percent,'' a number that includes invalid clicks, or traffic that an advertiser should not pay for, he said. According to Outsell Inc., an information industry research group, 13 percent of the total of online advertising clicks were fraudulent last year.
 ''Click fraud should be at the top of the priority list with Obama and the F.T.C.,'' said Jeff Chester, executive director for the Center for Digital Democracy, an advocacy group. ''The F.T.C. has seriously lagged in coming to grips with the problems surrounding the online ad market, specifically click fraud. It's extremely important to address the problem because it ultimately affects the consumers, meaning what they end up paying.''
 One of the challenges of click fraud detection is distinguishing genuine clicks from fraudulent ones. Indicators of click fraud include suspicious activities from an Internet Protocol (I.P.) address -- the address assigned to every computer that uses the Internet -- in a region the advertiser does not serve, or a large number of clicks in a short period. For instance, a clicker might view 10 pages on a site but spend exactly 2.1 seconds on each page. 
 Click fraud continues to be fueled by Web sites that offer to pay people to click on ads to artificially increase revenue. These networks can hide behind servers that mask the click's origin. 
 Other networks are much easier to find. Some companies offer to pay consumers to click on ads, often advertising their services as market research or system testing. They solicit people via e-mail messages and banner ads. 
 Click Forensics contends that, on average, its technology cuts a client's click fraud by more than 60 percent in a month. The company says it saves its customers, on average, more than 10 percent of their total online ad spending. 
 Click fraud represented 20 percent of NewCars.com's overall ad spending on Yahoo in 2007, according to the automotive company. It declined to disclose how much it spent on advertising. The number dropped to just 7 percent after NewCars.com hired Click Forensics last year and Yahoo made vigorous efforts to combat the problem, Ms. Sopoglian said.
 Click Forensics has more than 120 customers, including Intel, Progressive and Zappos.com. 
 Click Forensics is one of a number of businesses that try to eliminate, or at least curtail, click fraud. AdWatcher, part of the Internet marketing company MordComm Inc., tracks when an ad has been clicked on five or more times from the same I.P. address and will show a warning message to the visitor that his or her address has been logged. Anchor Intelligence, a click fraud detection company based in Mountain View, Calif., works with 30 partner ad networks and search engines, including Ask.com, AdBrite and LookSmart. ''With this surge of online ad dollars comes scrutiny, accountability and higher expectations,'' said Ken Miller, co-founder and chief executive officer of Anchor Intelligence. ''It's a very different landscape than even a couple of quarters ago.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); INTERNET CRIME (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); FORENSICS (70%); LITIGATION (69%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (66%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (87%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (87%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); INDONESIA (79%); BULGARIA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



451 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: Loss of Ramirez Has Upside For Dodgers

BYLINE: By DAN ROSENHECK

 BODY:
Frank McCourt, the owner of the Los Angeles Dodgers, did not mince words after meeting with Manny Ramirez, who was suspended for 50 games last week for violating baseball's drug policy. ''We put a lot of confidence in Manny and built a relationship there,'' McCourt told The Los Angeles Times. ''Whenever a relationship is violated like that, there's a sense of disappointment.'' 
 However angry McCourt might be, though, he should not shed too many tears from a business perspective. Economically, Ramirez's suspension could turn out to be a blessing in disguise for his club.
 When McCourt agreed to pay Ramirez $25 million this year, he was counting on him to produce three streams of revenue. First, Ramirez would improve the team's regular-season record and its likelihood of making the playoffs, attracting fans to the ballpark. Second, if the Dodgers reach the postseason, Ramirez may help drive them to a potential league championship or World Series. Those achievements are typically associated with increases in ticket sales the next season, as well as the addition of extremely profitable postseason games to the club's schedule. Finally, expectations were high that the acquisition of a star like Ramirez would increase merchandise sales. None of these revenue sources are likely to be harmed.
 Attendance should remain healthy for the games that Ramirez misses. Thousands of tickets for those dates have been sold. And fans who choose to stay home while Ramirez is out may be more likely to return when he does. No season tickets were canceled after the suspension.
 Moreover, the team's chances of winning a World Series may actually improve. If the Dodgers played in a tough division like the American League East, losing Ramirez would have been devastating. But because of the weakness of their divisional rivals in the National League West, as well as their hot start -- for which they can thank Ramirez, their left fielder, who ranks second in the National League in combined on-base and slugging percentages -- Los Angeles remains an overwhelming favorite to reach the playoffs. According to Clay Davenport of Baseball Prospectus, the Dodgers' chances of playing in October fell by only 7 percent, to 82 percent, when Ramirez went out. And because he will forfeit nearly $7 million in salary, the club gained financial flexibility to improve as the season goes on without increasing its payroll. If General Manager Ned Colletti decides to use those savings to acquire a top starting pitcher at the trade deadline, the Dodgers would be a much more formidable opponent in the playoffs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS FANS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); TICKET SALES (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); RETAIL SALES (67%); RANKINGS (61%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (84%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES DODGERS (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



452 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; MERCED JOURNAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: University In California Dresses Up For First Lady

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY; Malia Wollan contributed reporting from San Francisco.

DATELINE: MERCED, Calif. 

 BODY:
There are, to be sure, other things happening here this year. But in terms of sheer excitement -- and frantic primping -- there has been no bigger event in recent memory than Saturday's visit by Michelle Obama, who will deliver the commencement address to the first full graduating class of the University of California at Merced, the newest, smallest and most anonymous of 10 campuses in the state university system.
 ''It's going to be huge,'' said Zain Memon, a 22-year-old senior. ''This puts us on the map.'' 
 Of course, such reputation-making is not cheap. Officials at the university were scrambling on Tuesday to finalize the financing for the event, which is expected to draw more than 10,000 visitors and cost some $700,000, or roughly $600,000 more than had been budgeted before Mrs. Obama committed to speak. 
 The cost includes a raft of technological upgrades, including an audio-video feed, a Spanish simulcast over cellphone and a concert-size stage set up on the Bowl, the sodded campus lawn where the first lady will speak. Extra security added nearly $100,000 to the cost, including metal detectors on the campus, which sits in a former cattle field surrounded by hay-laden farmland and cows of unknown political leanings. 
 None of which, university officials said, will be a problem. 
 ''We are going to the office of the president, to the university's discretionary fund, we'll borrow if we have to,'' said Mary Miller, the vice chancellor for administration. ''This is an investment in our future. It is an investment in our community.''
 Sure enough, even as students crammed for finals, workers were swarming all over the campus on Tuesday, doing last-minute landscaping, installing flags in front of the library and unloading thousands of shipped-in chairs. One of those hard at work was Joe Hobbs, 24, from nearby Atwater, who said Mrs. Obama's visit had already become its own stimulus package. 
 ''It gave me a job,'' said Mr. Hobbs, who was working on the set-up crew and said he has a 1982 Camaro longing for a new motor. ''It gave all these people out here jobs.''
 For residents in this recession-battered city of 76,000 people in the heart of the Central Valley in California, Saturday is also being treated as a local holiday, with a daylong, downtown block party featuring its own Jumbotron for viewing Mrs. Obama's speech and activities ranging from ''human bowling'' to sumo wrestling.
 ''It's great for the city,'' said R. C. Essig, a co-owner of the Partisan, a Main Street bar that is bringing in a disc jockey from Los Angeles. ''I mean any community event here is a big event, but this is even bigger.'' 
 Indeed, local old-timers say the only event that measures up -- political celebrity-wise -- was a whistle-stop tour by one of the Kennedy brothers in the 1960s. (Which one is up for debate.) Still, some are hoping that Mrs. Obama's trip will be more than a simple speaking engagement. 
 ''I think she came here on a relief expedition,'' said George Alonso, 57, a bankruptcy lawyer who said he had been far too busy lately. ''I'm hoping she's here to check out the situation.'' 
 The situation in question includes soaring unemployment and foreclosure rates and more than a few ''For Rent'' signs along Main Street, a tidy and banner-filled strip populated by an assortment of mom and pop establishments.
 The city -- long an agricultural town -- had high hopes for an economic boost when the university was opened in 2005. But the campus initially struggled to find students, though seniors like Mr. Memon say its physical improvements have been impressive. 
 ''We have grass now,'' he said. 
 But while the university's enrollment has improved, its nightlife apparently has not. 
 ''Unless you like cow tipping, there's not much reason to go out there,'' said Rick Stokes, who works at the Gottschalk Music Center, the local guitar shop. 
 Nor have students always found much reason to head into a city that bored local teenagers derisively call ''Mer-dead.'' 
 But local officials feel that Mrs. Obama's trip may be a major step in the university's evolution into a school with the cachet of other University of California campuses. 
 ''I think my grandkids will see what the future holds,'' said Michele Gabriault-Acosta, a member of the City Council and the descendant of two city mayors. ''I love taking them out there and saying you could go here.'' 
 Whether Saturday's speech does boost the university's stature remains to be seen. But for the first class to have survived its college years here, Mrs. Obama's trip is all the confirmation they need. 
 ''You have to be a special person to come to a place and create traditions,'' said Vidur Malik, the editor of the student newspaper, The Prodigy. ''They deserve credit for sticking it out.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The stage was being set on Tuesday for the commencement ceremony at the University of California, Merced, where Michelle Obama will speak Saturday.
 Merced Theater welcomed Mrs. Obama in a city that is treating her visit as a holiday. Workers set up chairs for the event, which is expected to draw 10,000.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); METAL DETECTORS (66%); WRESTLING (62%); MARTIAL ARTS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



453 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Trade Deficit Widens as Value of Exports Falls More Than Imports

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY and BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
The United States' trade deficit widened for the first time in eight months in March, the government reported on Tuesday, primarily because of a drop in exports.
 But economists said the sharp declines in the value of trade between the United States and the rest of the world appeared to be hitting a plateau. For economists, the new figures added another small piece of evidence to theories that the worst declines were over, and that the economy was beginning to stabilize, although at lower levels.
 The total value of goods and services exported by the United States fell by $3 billion in March to $123.6 billion as overseas demand dropped for American-made automobiles, chemicals, airplanes and telecommunications equipment. 
 Import values fell $1.6 billion for the month, to $151.2 billion, as the country bought less foreign-made natural gas, fewer industrial goods and fewer consumer goods like clothing, cosmetics and televisions. 
 But imports of crude oil rose a seasonally adjusted $400 million for the month as prices rose from recent lows.
 Still, plunging exports in China and the Philippines and sluggish industrial output in India underscored the fact that the world's intertwined economies remain in the throes of a broad downturn.
 The Commerce Department reported that the trade deficit grew to $27.6 billion in March, from $26.1 billion in February. That was a smaller increase than economists had been expecting. 
 ''This is genuine improvement here,'' said Aaron Smith, a senior economist at Moody'sEconomy.com. ''It does suggest that the worst of the global trade downturn is over. We are nearing stabilization in the economy, and it does look like we'll resume growing in the third quarter.''
 Imports have plunged 27 percent since last March, and the continuing declines suggest that businesses are still trying to reduce their inventories to match lower levels of consumer spending.
 Consumer spending has fluctuated this year, and economists are uncertain about how American consumers will behave as unemployment rises and the country struggles to start growing again. Although consumer spending is no longer falling as quickly as it did last year, Americans are saving more and may act more conservatively as they worry about losing their jobs or a return to $4-a-gallon gasoline. Although the flow of goods and services between the United States and the rest of the world has slowed during the global downturn, American exports have held up relatively well, compared with plunging imports. 
 In February, exports rebounded slightly after six months of declines, growing by $2 billion as the country exported more automobiles, semiconductors, pharmaceuticals and chemicals. The increase helped bring the trade deficit to its lowest levels in nine years, and spurred discussion about whether the recession was beginning to bottom out.
 In recent surveys of the manufacturing and service sectors, the Institute for Supply Management said declines in American exports were beginning to taper off slightly in April. 
 Demand for foreign-made electronic equipment, clothes and oil has dipped sharply as consumers cut their spending.
 China reported on Tuesday that its exports fell 22.6 percent in April, a deeper drop than economists had expected, and a worse decline than in March, when overseas shipments dropped 17.1 percent.
 In India, data also released Tuesday showed industrial output down 2.3 percent in March versus a year earlier, more than economists had expected, while the Philippines reported exports in March were 30.9 percent below a year earlier.
 The data served as a sobering reminder that much of the global economy remains in the throes of a recession, and that a string of recent figures showing the pace of decline easing in parts of the world by no means heralded an actual turnaround.
 China's economy continues to grow, in part because of a huge package of spending and other stimulus efforts announced since November.
 These measures have included a big burst of lending by the country's state-owned banks, which helped send Chinese urban fixed-asset investment in the first four months of the year up 30.5 percent, according to figures released Tuesday -- more than economists had forecast.
 Other recent data have shown production activity slowly recovering, prompting economists at several Western banks to raise their forecasts for China's economic growth.
 Still, many analysts have continued to caution that a significant and sustained global recovery remains months off.
 ''China's ongoing recovery is driven by fixed-asset investment, with a focus on infrastructure,'' economists at Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch said in a research note on Tuesday. But with weak exports continuing to drag down China's growth, they added, ''the foundation for a recovery is still not firm.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: BALANCE OF TRADE: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); RECESSION (77%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); COSMETICS (70%); LAYOFFS (67%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (67%); EVIDENCE (56%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); DISMISSALS (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



454 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Albany Moves to Enable Extended Jobless Benefits

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Lawmakers in Albany agreed on Tuesday to change the state's unemployment insurance system in order to prevent more than 100,000 New Yorkers from running out of jobless benefits starting later this month.
 The changes, included in bills now pending in both houses of the State Legislature, are intended to make New York eligible to collect $645 million in federal stimulus money for its unemployment insurance system. Most of that money -- $370 million -- would extend benefits to people who have been collecting unemployment pay for more than a year. The rest would go toward closing a gap in the state's insolvent unemployment fund.
 As long as the legislation is passed and signed by the governor by next week, there should be no gap in benefits, state labor officials said. 
 New York is one of several states that have not complied with the requirements to receive a share of the $787 billion stimulus package for their unemployment systems. In Albany, the matter has been bogged down in discussions about overhauling the entire unemployment insurance system, which pays lower weekly benefits -- a maximum of $430 -- than all of its neighboring states.
 But this week, lawmakers gave up on fixing the whole system at once and agreed to address the federal demands before residents started running out of benefits. About 56,000 New Yorkers are scheduled to receive the last of their current unemployment payments next week, according to state labor officials. Each week after that, about 5,000 additional people would exhaust their benefits, they estimated. All told, as many as 120,000 New Yorkers would qualify for the extended benefits, which would add 13 weeks to the current maximum term of 59 weeks of payments.
 Residents of some other states, including Missouri and Tennessee, have already run out of benefits, although extended benefits would be paid for by the federal government. In New York, some of those nearing the end of their benefits have been anxiously waiting for lawmakers to act.
 ''We're freaking out,'' said Kathi Foster, who has not been able to find full-time work since she lost her job as a proofreader at a publishing company on Long Island a year ago next week. 
 Ms. Foster, 53, said she was ''on the last leg'' of her twice-extended payments of $397 a week. A resident of Port Washington, she has already removed the license plates from her 10-year-old car to save the registration fee and taken to walking daily to the local library, she said. Without a continuation of her benefits, she said, she might have to give up her home and move in with a friend.
 Many economists consider unemployment insurance payments to be among the more stimulative types of government spending because the money tends to be spent immediately on groceries, gasoline, clothing and other staples. But some critics counter that extending benefits simply adds to the incentive for the unemployed to remain idle.
 State officials said they did not believe that was an issue now, with the recession still worsening in New York and the state's unemployment rate at 7.8 percent.
 ''It's not like these people are not trying to find a job,'' said Larry S. Schwartz, the secretary to Gov. David A. Paterson. ''It is very difficult, if not next to impossible right now, to find jobs. Companies are either having hiring freezes right now or they're still laying people off.''
 All New York's lawmakers need to do to receive $370 million of the federal money is to adopt a measure that would allow for extended federal benefits whenever the state's official unemployment rate exceeds 6.5 percent. New York's rate has been above that level since December.
 But the pending bills include other changes to the state's unemployment program that would make the state eligible for even more stimulus money, an additional $275 million. To qualify for the additional money the Obama administration wants states to allow people to collect unemployment benefits if they quit their jobs under certain family circumstances. Those reasons could include quitting to follow a spouse who has to move for work or quitting to care for a sick or disabled family member.
 State labor officials said that they already provided benefits in such cases, but federal officials insisted that those provisions be written into state law. Until Tuesday, the Business Council of New York State had objected to the proposed legislation, fearing that it would increase payroll taxes by making more people eligible for benefits. 
 But the Business Council relented after the bills were amended to state that the sick or disabled person must be an ''immediate family member'' of the beneficiary, that that person's illness must be verified and that the care required would last longer than any leave offered by the beneficiary's former employer.
 The proposed legislation, which passed the Senate Finance Committee on Tuesday, is expected to come up for a vote next week.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kathi Foster of Port Washington, N.Y., said that after a year, she was ''on the last leg'' of her unemployment benefits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHY KMONICEK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); LEGISLATION (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (68%); DISMISSALS (60%); PUBLISHING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



455 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; N.F.L. FAST FORWARD; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Teams Leaving N.F.L.'s Pension Plan, Angering Assistants

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
The plight of assistant coaches, angered by ownership's decision in March to allow teams to opt out of the N.F.L.'s generous pension plan, may not generate much sympathy from fans, many of whom aren't feeling too secure about their own retirement prospects right now. 
 But the coaches' disappointment is understandable. Even though the N.F.L. has an estimated annual revenue of $7.5 billion, the assistants are caught in the same market conditions as the millions of American workers whose benefits have been slashed as defined benefit plans, which are enormously expensive to administer, have disappeared during the economic downturn. And there are those inside the N.F.L. Players Association who believe owners decided to allow teams to exit from the plan in preparation for a lockout, which would come after the 2010 season if a new collective bargaining agreement is not reached. Nine teams have pulled out so far. 
 The owners, thinking at the union goes, will save money by not having to support the pension plan and they may get rid of some big contracts for assistants in the bargain, although the decision applies to all nonplaying employees.
 Assistants are not represented by a union, but their association, which represents assistants and a few head coaches, works under the auspices of the players association. DeMaurice Smith, the new executive director of the players association, has repeatedly linked the coaches with players when discussing the collective bargaining agreement. 
 The strategy makes sense, especially now. While assistants have traditionally fallen into a gray area somewhere between players and management, they are livid with ownership. 
 ''We've talked about becoming a union over time, and the owners have always said, 'You couldn't possibly become a union because you're managers, you're supervisory by nature,' '' said Larry Kennan, the staff director of the N.F.L. Coaches Association. ''If we're supervisors, why didn't they tell us they were thinking of doing this? Head coaches and general managers didn't know this was going on. We felt totally, totally disrespected.''
 Kennan said that when he was a young assistant during the N.F.L.'s labor strife in the early 1980s, ''We were loyal to owners and we thought players were wrong.'' That changed, he said, when the association formed in 1998. ''They said, We'll fire all of you and buy new guys,'' Kennan said. ''That pushed us toward players.'' 
 Now, after 10 years on the job, Kennan said he has never seen assistants so furious. It didn't help that owners made the move after the coaches had already signed their contracts for next season. 
 Some owners have assured their employees they will provide new retirement plans to replace the N.F.L.'s and all benefits already earned through 2008 in the N.F.L. plan will be paid. Kennan said the plan was as generous as any in American business today.
 Traditional plans, the owners who have opted out believe, are not sustainable, particularly because bigger contributions would be necessary to make up for the huge investment losses that plans suffered last year. 
 Kennan said he hoped Smith includes coaches in negotiating the next collective bargaining agreement. He hinted that high-paying college jobs might lure assistants from the N.F.L. That is an unlikely course for the Indianapolis Colts' longtime offensive line coach, Howard Mudd, who has filed for retirement because of the changes to the pension program, or the offensive coordinator, Tom Moore, who is considering retiring. Mudd's and Moore's retirement cushions aren't likely to concern Colts fans. But come September, the loss of Peyton Manning's coaching security blankets might. 
 Sanchez for Sale
 While the rest of the N.F.L. awaits the puff of smoke from Brett Favre's camp in Hattiesburg, Miss., Jets fans are desperate to move on. 
 They bought so many Mark Sanchez jerseys after he was drafted April 25 that it ranked fourth in jersey sales for April among all N.F.L. players, according to NFLshop.com. Only one other rookie, San Francisco's Michael Crabtree at 13th, made the top 25. Jay Cutler's Chicago jersey topped the list, but his was available for almost the entire month after his trade from Denver on April 2. 
 Jets fans wearied of Favre when he complained of an aching throwing arm and his play went off a cliff last winter, but his annual Hamlet routine hasn't dampened his fan support entirely. In April, when it still looked as if Favre meant it when he said he was retired, his jersey (Packers' and Jets' combined), was fifth on the best-seller list, ahead of Tom Brady's and Peyton Manning's. 
 Is it any wonder the Minnesota Vikings, who need to generate support for a new stadium, are willing to wait out Favre's dithering? His play has dropped off in each of the last few seasons, and he seems uninterested in working out with a new team in the off-season, but Favre can still move product. Maybe Mark Wilf, the Vikings' president, who acknowledged Monday that his team was interested in Favre, should call the Jets' owner, Woody Johnson. The Jets sold a lot of jerseys last year and stole a lot of headlines. But they finished third in their division. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jets fans made Mark Sanchez's jersey a best seller. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH SCHULTZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (77%); LOCKOUTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



456 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Contrarians Stand Tall in New Jersey

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
At the opening of the new $150 million W Hoboken Hotel last month, the guests carried on as if it were 2006, or maybe even 2005 -- back when profits flowed on Wall Street and affluence was the straw that stirred the hospitality industry's drink.
 The party seemed a bit out of touch with reality. ''The truth is that this is going to be a tough year for any hotel trying to establish its business,'' said John A. Fox, a hotel market analyst for PKF Consulting in Manhattan. 
 In the six months since Wall Street's profit-making engine seized up, Mr. Fox said, the hotel industry's revenue per available room has dipped 35 percent in the New York City area, which is five percentage points more than it fell in the first six months after 9/11.
 While the drop in demand for hotel rooms in the area was more drastic in 2001, the supply of rooms was also tighter. In the last few years, Mr. Fox said, more than 3,500 hotel rooms have been added in Manhattan, the other New York City boroughs and the New Jersey waterfront. 
 The W is not the only large and sumptuous hotel to open recently on the New Jersey waterfront, even as demand has sharply contracted. The Westin Jersey City Newport had its own opening celebration in February.
 The owners and operators of the new hotels insist that their properties have enough built-in appeal to attract a strong customer base and achieve healthy average occupancy rates of 70 to 75 percent.
 That would be a stretch for any hotel in its first year, Mr. Fox said. But he added that ''both builders have sophisticated financing. Their companies are diversified, and they can wait for the cycle to turn.''
 The W, built by Ironstate Development, is starting out strong as a social site, especially for wedding parties; almost every weekend is booked through the end of the year, said its general manager, Anna MacDiarmid. The hotel's Zylo restaurant and Chandelier Room bar, with river-to-sky views of Manhattan, both inside and on a heated porch outside, are regularly crowded with North Jersey hipsters.
 The W, part of the Starwood Hotels and Resorts lineup, is the brand's first in New Jersey and the first major hotel in Hoboken.
 In Jersey City, the LeFrak Organization built the Westin with 20,000 square feet of banquet and meeting space, an elegant executive board room and wireless-equipped desks in the guest rooms. The hotel has already begun to draw bookings for large conferences and trade shows.
 The Westin's director of marketing and sales, Robert McIntosh, said that in a time of intense corporate cost-consciousness, the hotel's rates are attractive relative to Manhattan or luxury resorts. The top concern for many of those booking hotels is price per room. ''I get 10 or 15 calls coming in every day: 'Is there a deal available?' '' he said. ''The trick for us as a new hotel is to set pricing so as to build a loyal customer base while at the same time not compromise the perceived quality of the product we offer.''
 Room rates always float to a certain extent, said Mr. Fox, the consultant. But generally, he said, rates for the New Jersey waterfront area run about 20 percent less than those in Manhattan, where the average nightly rate is around $225.
 At the 429-room Westin Newport, posted rates for double-occupancy rooms start at $219, but dip as low as $129 at less busy times or with negotiated discounts for corporate and conference business.
 At the 229-room W, the posted starting rate is $259, but is currently discounted to $189 with perks attached, like free parking or free cocktails. 
 Market specialists say that the companies that built and manage the two hotels appear to have market strategies and financial status solid enough to weather the recession. Senator Frank R. Lautenberg was jubilant at the Westin opening, calling it the ''LeFrak stimulus plan'' for bringing jobs and revenue to Jersey City. 
 In the last 23 years, the LeFrak Organization has invested $2.5 billion at the Newport, its massive mixed-use development in Jersey City. There are now nine rental towers, 885 condominiums, a 1.2-million-square-foot mall, eight office buildings, parks and a marina. 
 Three years ago, when construction of the Westin started, said James T. LeFrak, a principal at the family-run company, it seemed that demand for first-class rooms was nearly at the bursting point.
 There was a hotel squeeze in Manhattan in 2006; the average occupancy rate for first-class hotels that year hovered at 85 percent, whereas now it is about 80 percent. In Jersey City, which had three first-class hotels already, ''there were times when occupancy hit 100 percent -- not a reservation to be had anywhere in town,'' Mr. LeFrak said. 
 And nothing was available next door in Hoboken, either. The city, mainly known for its loading docks, rose from seediness to chic in just 15 years, starting in the early 1990s.
 ''We saw a fundamental need for a really unique upscale lodging product on the Jersey side of the Hudson waterfront,'' said David Barry, who is a co-principal of Ironstate with his brother, Michael. ''Residential and commercial development had gotten way ahead of hotel development -- and a product like this was highly overdue.''
 In a sense, Ironstate Development, formerly known as the Applied Development Company, is to Hoboken what LeFrak is to Jersey City. Its first development was the mixed-use Shipyard complex; the company's success there helped spur more than a decade of frenetic development by myriad developers.
 Having a gorgeous new hotel, which was designed by Gwathmey Siegel & Associates, open in the teeth of recession was not exactly the game plan, Mr. Barry conceded. But he said he was encouraged that since the hotel opened its doors in March, bookings have come close to the projected 75 percent for weekends and holidays.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Westin Jersey City Newport, left, and the W Hoboken Hotel have opened in the last few months. Their owners and operators are confident, despite a slump in the hotel business.
 David Barry, left, and his brother, Michael, are the principals of Ironstate Development, builder of the W Hoboken Hotel. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); LODGING (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (78%); RESORTS (78%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (78%); REVENUE PER AVAILABLE ROOM (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); HOTEL AMENITIES (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (65%); TRADE SHOWS (60%)

COMPANY: STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (51%)

TICKER: HOT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (51%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



457 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Neighbors Use Food Stamps, But Not Costco

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER. 
E-mail:Dwyer@nytimes.com

 BODY:
This October, when Costco, the big warehouse chain, opens its first Manhattan store, it will occupy a brand new mall along the East River Drive at 116th Street that has been developed with $55 million in tax-free bonds and grants. The company will be eligible for millions of dollars in tax credits for creating new jobs.
 But there's one kind of government money Costco won't take: food stamps. 
 That policy effectively cuts off more than 30,000 of its immediate neighbors in East Harlem, who receive food stamps. Throughout the city, 1.4 million people got them in April, an increase of 80 percent since 2002, city officials said. Most of the recipients have jobs, but their wages are so low that they qualify for the food stamps, now issued in the form of debit cards.
 Even if those neighbors don't get to shop at the store and take advantage of bulk food purchases, they will have plenty of chances to see -- and hear -- a critical part of the company's warehouse operations: Costco just won special permission for its tractor-trailers to drive on residential streets in East Harlem between midnight and 5 a.m. to make deliveries.
 ''You're moving to a neighborhood with thousands of people on food stamps, and you don't accept food stamps, and you want to drive on their streets all night to deliver something they can't buy?'' said Viveca Diaz, an East Harlem resident who has objected to the delivery schedule.
 So far, executives of Costco have made no public statements about why its stores -- with the exception of one in Puerto Rico -- will not take food stamps. They did not reply to four requests for comment. Many other big chains, including Wal-Mart, Whole Foods, B.J.'s and Sam's Club, do take them.
 Costco's policy is the target of a campaign by public officials, including City Councilman Eric Gioia, and the public advocate, Betsy Gotbaum. Mr. Gioia said that he had written to Costco over the last two years about the policy, and that company executives had responded to him by phone, but never in writing. Their reasons, he said, vary.
 ''One of the reasons is that it would cost too much to modify their equipment,'' he said. ''That doesn't make much sense, because the state provides the equipment free of charge.'' The company raised other concerns, he said, like whether people on food stamps would be able to afford the $50 annual membership fee. ''Being able to shop in bulk is a huge benefit,'' said Matthew Washington, a member of Community Board 11, which covers East Harlem. ''People will figure out a way.'' 
 Costco is moving into the site of the old Washburn Wire factory, which shut down decades ago, and is being developed as East River Plaza by a partnership of Forest City Ratner Companies and the Blumenfeld Development Group. 
 The project received a $15 million economic development grant, and the city's Industrial Development Authority issued $40 million in tax-free bonds to pay for a parking garage. The bonds will be paid back by the developer, but the lost tax revenue amounts to $10 million, according to the city's Independent Budget Office.
 In March, the developers asked the community board to allow Costco to make the late-night deliveries. The board agreed after the developer offered to install double-paned glass and air conditioning in apartments along the route. Costco will supply 2,000 free memberships through a lottery.
 AS for food stamps, Mr. Washington said he urged the other members of the community board not to grant the delivery permits unless Costco changed its rules, but the developers said the company would not budge. 
 ''Costco never came in front of the community and the community board,'' said Mr. Washington, who did not vote for the delivery permit but said the company would be an important presence in East Harlem. ''Remember that there will be 400 new jobs, and over 85 percent of their employees receive health care, and the average employee is paid more than $18 an hour. These are things you just don't hear of in retailing.''
 Costco should not turn away food stamp business, Mr. Gioia says, noting that the city pension funds hold about $65 million of the company's stock.
 Ms. Diaz detected an air of elitism in the rules. ''They were saying at one point they don't have the technology,'' she said. ''Very interesting. The corner bodega takes food stamps, and Costco doesn't?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD STAMPS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (73%); BONDS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); CITIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%); DEBIT CARDS (53%)

COMPANY: COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (95%); SAM'S CLUB (64%)

TICKER: COST (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); PUERTO RICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



458 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Shareholders Hurt in Bailout Payback

BYLINE: By ANTONY CURRIE and DWIGHT CASS

 BODY:
Should banks be in such a rush to pay back government injections of capital? 
 That might seem an odd question given that just months ago, talk of a punitive tax on bonuses in particular made throwing off the government yoke seem a no-brainer. But that furor has passed for now. Still, there are downsides to redeeming government aid. 
 For starters, it's cheap capital. The banks currently jostling to hand it back are paying just 5 percent a year for it, a better rate than they'd get borrowing the money elsewhere. Putting that to work ought to add extra juice to earnings. That's not to be sniffed at, especially during a recession. 
 But paying back capital provided by the Treasury Department under its Troubled Asset Relief Program can mean diluting shareholders. Banks are falling all over themselves to raise new capital: Bank of New York Mellon, BB&T, Capital One and U.S. Bancorp have sold a combined $7.7 billion of new stock. At JPMorgan Chase, the chief executive, Jamie Dimon, has unequivocally said his bank did not need more equity to pay back the government. 
 Take BB&T. The North Carolina-based bank makes money, and it passed the government's bank capital stress test with flying colors, so it doesn't need to raise more. Yet its $1.5 billion share sale will dilute shareholders by 12 percent or so. And it has just cut its dividend, as many peers have in recent months.
 As it happens, BB&T might have struggled to earn enough to cover its payout. Even so, that adds up to a lot for shareholders to give up simply to free banks of government interference that amounts, at present, to limiting bonus payments for their top five executives and 20 highest-paid earners to one-third of salary, which isn't itself restricted.
 There's always the chance that lawmakers will decide to impose additional constraints. And even if they don't, potential employees may be shy about joining financial institutions that have received bailout funds. That could mean that paying back the government is indeed a good idea. But bank chiefs should do more than rely on received wisdom to justify doing so.
 Ease Up on Creditors 
 Recalcitrant creditors were made scapegoats for the collapse of Chrysler. They may play the same unhappy role if General Motors runs off the road. G.M. bondholders who have hedged their exposures are said to want the carmaker to file for bankruptcy. But that doesn't make them opportunistic speculators.
 If G.M. files, these investors could indeed collect on their credit-default swap contracts. But in many cases, they've already suffered big losses on their bonds. Making up for those is what hedging is all about. 
 Meanwhile, G.M.'s government-inspired overhaul plan looks like a raw deal. Lenders would get only 10 percent of G.M.'s new equity, rather than the lion's share, which, as the largest block of creditors, is arguably their due. 
 It's also unlikely that most of the bondholders concerned are short-term speculators. The economics of hedging G.M.'s bonds haven't looked great in a while.
 The last time it was attractive was probably in early 2007, when G.M.'s bonds fetched around 97 cents on the dollar. An investor seeking to hedge $10 million of those bonds for five years would have paid about $390,000 a year in the credit-default swap market, a cost covered by the interest received on the bonds. By last summer, that bondholder had lost $1 million on the bonds, but that was roughly offset by the increased value of the swaps contract. 
 But then the carmaker's wheels had started coming off. By the end of last year, the reported cost of swaps protection ballooned to $8 million up front and $500,000 a year, and the bonds plunged in value to about 25 cents on the dollar. Buying the bonds then and insuring their $10 million face value would have cost $11 million in the first year, a losing proposition even if G.M. filed for bankruptcy. 
 So the hedged bondholders have probably been in the game for a while. They have the advantage of some bankruptcy insurance. But there's little reason to excoriate them for risking a G.M. failure when the alternative deal on offer is so meager.
 ANTONY CURRIE and DWIGHT CASS 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: BB&T passed the government's stress test but is cutting shareholder dividends. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVIS TURNER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); BONUS PAY (77%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (65%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (60%)

COMPANY: BB&T CORP (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); U S BANCORP (69%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: BBT (NYSE) (92%); BK (NYSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); USB (NYSE) (69%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



459 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: An American Writer, Coming of Age in Oxford

BYLINE: By DWIGHT GARNER

 BODY:
ARDENT SPIRITS 
 Leaving Home, Coming Back 
 By Reynolds Price 
 Illustrated. 408 pages. Scribner. $35. 
 There's a nice, small moment in Reynolds Price's new memoir, ''Ardent Spirits,'' in which he describes a meal he shared in 1957 with the English writers Stephen Spender and Cyril Connolly and the American academic Lionel Trilling. Mr. Price was at Oxford University at the time, studying on a Rhodes Scholarship. 
 It was an awkward evening. Mr. Trilling ''gave off a soberly academic whiff of disapproval of these laughing English writers,'' Mr. Price writes. Mr. Spender and Mr. Connolly, for their part, were amused that Mr. Trilling had ''written an entire humorless book about E. M. Forster'' without perceiving an elemental fact: Forster was gay. 
 American readers can be forgiven if, as Mr. Trilling did with Forster, they have not noticed that Reynolds Price himself is -- to borrow James McGreevey's phrase -- a gay American. Over the course of his long career and across his jumbo-size output (38 books of fiction, poetry, plays, essays and other nonfiction), Mr. Price has deployed gay characters only sparingly. 
 He is far better known for being a native of North Carolina, where much of his fiction is set, and for his probing interest in religious faith. Mr. Price hasn't exactly hidden the fact that he is gay; he is simply a private person who hasn't tattooed this information, in curly script, on one of his biceps.
 Mr. Price's reluctance to write about gay life makes ''Ardent Spirits: Leaving Home, Coming Back,'' feel like a boisterous coming-out party. The book details six years in Mr. Price's life, 1955-61, when he was in his early 20s, and it is, for sure, about many things beyond his sexuality -- namely his years at Oxford and his beginnings as a writer. But the book seems most alive when it details what it was like to be young and gay and on the prowl -- Mr. Price at one point describes himself as ''a sexual wolverine'' -- in the buttoned-down 1950s.
 ''Ardent Spirits'' begins in the fall of 1955, as Mr. Price and 30 or so other American men board a boat, the S.S. United States, bound for England. The world does not need another young-American-at-Oxford memoir, and Mr. Price's assessment of the place carts out most of the familiar stock furniture: the bland food, the dismal heating, the British disregard for some of the niceties of personal hygiene. 
 Along the way, though, Mr. Price makes some interesting friends, becomes close to Mr. Spender and W. H. Auden and travels ecstatically across the continent. There are amusing walk-ons by people as diverse as Brigitte Bardot, J. R. R. Tolkien, Willie Morris, John Gielgud, Jean-Paul Sartre and the novelist Anne Tyler, who became one of Mr. Price's first students when he returned from Oxford to teach at Duke University. As ''Ardent Spirits'' rolls along, it begins to emit a relaxed, jangly hum.
 Mr. Price's awareness of his sexual orientation surfaced well before he arrived at Oxford. ''I'd had intimations from, say, age 7 that men were the world's magnetic core for me,'' he writes. ''Though I felt pleasantly drawn to several other girls, right on through college, I date the irreversible proof of my course to the year in which I mail-ordered Andre Gide's book 'Corydon.' '' He was in high school at the time. 
 At Oxford, despite what Mr. Price calls its ''much-alleged homosexual crowd,'' he was hardly part of a gay cartel. ''I literally knew no other student who claimed to be queer (or appeared to be -- it was some time before queer confessions became as common as weak jokes),'' he writes. ''And I couldn't have told you, till late in my third year, whether or not there was a queer pub or other gathering place in the city.'' 
 (Mr. Price applies the word ''queer'' and dislikes ''gay'' because he thinks the latter hurt homosexual men during the early years of the AIDS crisis. It fit the assumption of bigots, he writes, that ''homosexuals were giddy irresponsibles, negligible creatures.'' Mr. Price quotes a friend who says: ''Please don't call me gay. If you need an adjective, call me morose.''
 Mr. Price was hardly on the sexual sidelines while at Oxford, however. While traveling in Italy with a friend, he began loitering in the Borghese Gardens in Rome at night, where the ''wooded throughways and bushes also converted, almost instantly at sundown, into the central pick-up spot for whores of all gender.'' He takes a lover who, Mr. Price imagines, carried ''a whiff of genetic memory of the passage of Attila and his Huns through medieval Europe.'' Now there, you think, was some face-melting sex. 
 Mr. Price observes that ''sex between men is, in one pure sense, the ideal male sex act, productive of possible affection and a quick intense pleasure -- an act that's profoundly different from female sex, likely as that often is to result in the commencement of a child's life.'' 
 He explains why he hasn't written often about gay life. ''I've been more steadily interested in exploring lives involved in complex families with lengthy histories which are endlessly subject to change and fate, and such lives are generally heterosexual.'' 
 He adds a commercial angle, one that seems to me less relevant as time goes on: ''I've also observed that few readers are interested, over long stretches, in stories of homosexual life; and I've never scorned readers.'' 
 Mr. Price also reprints his favorite bit of advice, adapted from something an Oxford don's mother said on her death bed: ''You'll only regret your economies.'' 
 ''Ardent Spirits'' is Mr. Price's third memoir. His first, ''Clear Pictures'' (1989), traced his life to age 21. His second, ''A Whole New Life'' (1994), detailed his desperate battle with spinal cancer, which left him a paraplegic in the early 1980s. ''Ardent Spirits'' is the best of this winning lot. It's occasionally slack and talky, the work of a porch-swing raconteur, but Mr. Price's warmth, vigor and good humor consistently shine through.
 This book takes its title from a comment made by a guide who was showing Mr. Price and a group of writers around Monticello, Thomas Jefferson's house. Describing Jefferson's preference for wine over hard liquor, the guide said: ''Mr. Jefferson kept very few ardent spirits, only for those few friends who required them.'' 
 The phrase seemed appropriate for this memoir, Mr. Price writes, even though he has never been much of a drinker. It fit because the book is, he honestly declares, a ''memoir of high adult happiness.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY IAN HOLLJES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); POETRY (72%); RELIGION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (66%)

TITLE: Ardent Spirits (Book); Ardent Spirits (Book)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



460 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Reminders on Health Reform

 BODY:
Lawmakers who were paying attention got two powerful reminders this week of the critical need for them to pass the strongest possible reforms to bring down health costs and cover the unconscionable number of Americans -- more than 45 million -- who remain uninsured. 
 The more dramatic was the latest annual report from the Medicare trustees, released on Tuesday, which found that the recession had made Medicare's already tenuous financial condition even worse, hastening the day the program's hospital fund will face insolvency unless reforms are enacted. As Peter Orszag, the director of the Office of Management and Budget, repeatedly stresses, the only way to solve the fiscal problems of the big entitlement programs is to slow the relentless rise in the underlying health care costs.
 The other reminder of the need for change was a pledge by leaders of the major health care industries to cut $2 trillion from projected health care spending over the next decade. It was a promising development, but probably not the ''watershed event'' that President Obama had proclaimed it. So far, all we have is a vague and unenforceable promise that may never materialize.
 On Monday, groups representing insurance companies, drug and device makers, doctors, hospitals and a labor union pledged at the White House to shave 1.5 percent off the annual rate of growth in health care spending. That would reduce the growth rate from a projected 6.2 percent a year over the next decade to 4.7 percent a year, a seemingly modest amount that would, over time, produce substantial savings for the health care system, the federal government and individual families. 
 We hoped it was a sign that the industry believes major reforms are inevitable and is better off cooperating with the reform effort instead of opposing it. 
 For disparate elements of the health care industry to profess a willingness to reduce the unsustainable growth rate in health care costs is a huge difference from the early 1990s when the insurance industry and other special interests combined to defeat the Clinton administration's health care proposals.
 In the course of promising savings, health care leaders seemed willing to accept such long-sought reforms as comparative effectiveness studies to determine which medical procedures or products work best. Whether they will be willing to accept dictates that they use the best procedures or products seems doubtful.
 Skeptics are right to be worried that health industry leaders are primarily trying to head off strong federal policies and regulations by making toothless pledges of voluntary action. None of the health care groups have agreed to accept any particular cuts. None have agreed to drop previous opposition to specific reforms under discussion in Congress. None are able to guarantee that their members will accept guidance from their national associations. 
 The industries need to come up with concrete proposals that the Congressional Budget Office can evaluate in terms of likely impact on health care spending. And Congress needs to find some mechanism to force savings from the industry if its voluntary efforts fail to reduce costs as promised. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (92%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); INSURANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); HOSPITALS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); LABOR UNIONS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%)

PERSON: PETER ORSZAG (55%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



461 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Homeownership Losses Are Greatest Among Minorities, Report Finds

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND; Carmen Gentile contributed reporting.

 BODY:
After a decade of growth, the gains made in homeownership by African-Americans and native-born Latinos have been eroding faster in the economic downturn than those of whites, according to a report issued Tuesday by the Pew Hispanic Center. 
 The report also suggests that the gains for minority groups, achieved from 1995 to 2004, were disproportionately tied to relaxed lending standards and subprime loans. 
 An exception to the reversal of homeownership gains, the research shows, can be found among foreign-born Latinos, whose rate of ownership, while low, has stalled during the downturn but has not fallen.
 After peaking at 69 percent in 2004, the rate of homeownership for all American households declined to 67.8 percent in 2008. For African-American households, it fell to 47.5 percent in 2008 from 49.4 percent in 2004. Latinos, native and foreign-born together, had a longer period of growth, with homeownership rising until 2006, to 49.8 percent, before falling to 48.9 percent last year. Homeownership for native-born Latinos fell to 53.6 percent from a high of 56.2 percent in 2005.
 The decline among whites was more modest, to 74.9 percent last year from 76.1 percent in 2004.
 So was the decline among immigrants, to 52.9 percent last year from 53.3 percent in 2006. Latino immigrants, who have the lowest rate of homeownership among the groups studied, did not lose any ground, remaining at the high of 44.7 percent they reached in 2007. 
 The numbers are a reflection that immigrants today have typically been living in the country longer than immigrants of the past, said Rakesh Kochhar, associate director of research for the Pew Hispanic Center, a project of the nonprofit Pew Research Center. The longer immigrants are here, the more secure they tend to become. Among foreign-born Hispanics, ''the force of assimilation into homeownership is strong,'' even during a downturn, Mr. Kochhar said.
 The decline in homeownership among other groups, he said, reflects both high foreclosure rates and lower rates of home buying.
 Even with the decline, the rate for all groups together remains higher than before the boom, with nearly 68 percent of American households owning homes last year, up from 64 percent in 1994. 
 The gaps between white and minority households remain significant, however, with homeownership rates for Asians (59.1 percent), blacks (47.5 percent) and Latinos (48.9 percent) well below the 74.9 percent among whites.
 Like previous studies, the report found that blacks and Hispanics were more than twice as likely to have subprime mortgages as white homeowners, even among borrowers with comparable incomes. In 2006, the last year of heavy subprime lending, 17.5 percent of white home buyers took subprime loans, compared with 44.9 percent for Hispanics and 52.8 percent for blacks.
 These loans, which typically require little or no down payment and are meant for borrowers with low credit scores, made homeownership possible for many black and Hispanic families during the boom years, but also led to high rates of foreclosure. 
 ''Basically, that gap was closed on poor loans that never should have been made and wound up harming folks and their neighborhoods,'' said Kevin Stein, associate director of the California Reinvestment Coalition, an organization of nonprofit housing groups.
 African-Americans and Latinos remain more likely than whites to be turned down for mortgages, with 26.1 percent of applications from Hispanics rejected in 2007, 30.4 percent of applications from blacks and 12.1 percent of applications from whites.
 Though there were no figures available on the race or ethnicity of homeowners in foreclosure, the researchers found that counties with high concentrations of immigrants had particularly high foreclosure rates.
 But the research did not suggest that high rates of immigration on their own caused high levels of foreclosure, Mr. Kochhar said. High unemployment, falling home prices, subprime loans and high ratios of debt to income all contributed. 
 Enrique Lopez, a Miami real estate agent, said that with the tightening of credit, his Hispanic clients had had a harder time getting mortgages than non-Hispanics, in part because they had lower credit scores.
 Mr. Lopez, a member of the National Association of Hispanic Real Estate Professionals, said, ''There are people we work with that make enough money, and we can't put them in homes.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Gains Now Eroding: Minority groups had a faster growth in homeownership rates than whites from 1995 to 2004, but those gains began eroding more rapidly at the start of the housing crisis in 2005.(Source: Pew Hispanic Center) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



462 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Sliver of Cash From Stimulus In State Hands

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
Nearly three months after President Obama approved a $787 billion economic stimulus package, intended to create or save jobs, the federal government has paid out less than 6 percent of the money, largely in the form of social service payments to states.
 Although administration officials say the program is right on schedule, they have actually spent relatively little so far. 
 The stimulus bill has directly injected around $45.6 billion into the economy, mostly to help states cover the costs of Medicaid and unemployment benefits, one-time $250 checks that were mailed to Social Security recipients last week, and income tax cuts that began to take effect this spring. 
 Although states around the country are beginning roadwork projects, the Department of Transportation had spent only about $11 million on highway projects through the first week of May. 
 The intent of the stimulus program was to pump money into the economy quickly, and many members of Congress said at the time of its passage that speed was of the essence. But the huge program has been a challenge to administer for both a new administration and for states and local governments grappling with their own fiscal problems. 
 Some states and cities are beginning to complain that the money has yet to reach them. Others have been slow to get their paperwork to Washington; Virginia has yet to send the Transportation Department its list of road projects.
 At the same time, some economists have questioned the administration's claims that the bill has saved or created 150,000 jobs.
 Obama administration officials, however, say the pace of the stimulus program is on schedule, and even if the federal checks are not yet in the mail the effects of the stimulus are beginning to reverberate: the promise of the federal money has been enough to get states to start construction work and to retain some jobs that were in jeopardy.
 Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who writes in a report on the stimulus bill to be released this week that it remains ''ahead of schedule in most programs,'' said in a telephone interview Tuesday that the bill was helping people grapple with the recession, getting money to the states and into the economy, and laying a foundation for long-term aspirations like high-speed rail.
 ''We're 85 days into a two-year program here -- we're trying to get the money out as quickly as we can, but not too quickly, so we don't end up really screwing up here,'' Mr. Biden said. ''Because we're talking about big dollars here, these are big numbers, this is unprecedented. And in 85 days we've gotten tens of billions of dollars out the door, and so far -- knock on wood -- no real big problems, no real big glitches.''
 The Transportation Department has committed to pay for more than $10.5 billion worth of projects across the country, which an official there likened to signing the paperwork for a new car before the check has cleared. 
 Those commitments have spurred at least 20 states to award contracts and begin paying road crews; some contractors are staffing up, or postponing layoffs, in the hopes of winning some of that work. 
 And the federal I.O.U.'s -- the government has made $88 billion worth of commitments so far -- have saved jobs in many areas. 
 Columbus, Ohio, which sent layoff notices to its entire class of 26 police recruits in January, decided to rehire the class in February when it learned it would get a Justice Department grant. 
 Alabama plans to keep 3,800 teachers whose jobs were in jeopardy, knowing that education stimulus money will soon be on its way. 
 Utah is planning to rehire or retain about 45 probation and parole agents, court clerks, crime lab technicians, investigators and counselors on the promise of expected stimulus aid. 
 Nonetheless, to the frustration of some local governments, the federal spigot has been more trickle than flood, and states are facing such fiscal pressure that many are cutting jobs anyway. 
 When the Senate recently held a hearing on the spending of the stimulus money, Ray Scheppach, the executive director of the National Governors Association, told lawmakers that ''to one extent this hearing is premature.'' He reminded them that most of the stimulus funds ''remain in the hands of the federal government.'' 
 When the bill was still in Congress, the need for speed was so important that the Obama administration agreed to funnel much of the money through existing programs to accelerate the process. The bill's Republican opponents questioned the bill's short-term effects, seizing on a Congressional Budget Office report that found that much of the spending would be pushed into later years. 
 Now, a federal government that has often been caricatured as profligate has begun trying to spend money as quickly as possible and has become fixated, to use the new Washington catch phrase, with ''getting money out the door.'' 
 The Obama administration has committed to spending 70 percent of the money, or $550.9 billion, within the first two years. By that benchmark, an administration official said, the government is 8 percent toward its goal. 
 There has been skepticism of the administration's claim of creating or saving 150,000 jobs. While it can be difficult to count jobs that were saved, as opposed to those that were created, Peter Morici, an economist at the University of Maryland, said that trends in state and local government employment ''just do not support that claim.'' Other economists have been more supportive of the administration.
 Mr. Biden said the stimulus had created some public works jobs, generated work at factories that expect to benefit from the work and kept many state and local governments from laying off workers, since stimulus aid will help them balance their budgets.
 But getting the money out can be a cumbersome process at times. Virginia, the last state to submit a list of transportation projects, is trying to get the work done as its Transportation Department is shedding 1,000 positions. Jeffrey Caldwell, a State Transportation Department spokesman, said that the agency had sought bids on some of the jobs anyway, so work could begin quickly when the list was done.
 Last week, the government reported spending more than $10 billion in stimulus money, and officials said that the speed would increase as the program grows. 
 ''In baseball terms, I think there's going to be real pace on the ball here,'' Mr. Biden said in the interview. ''I think that what you're going to see happen here is the velocity of this will increase not just arithmetically, but geometrically here. At least, we've got to make that happen.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers for Bloomfield Bridge and Culvert assemble concrete forms at a highway bypass project around Fort Madison, Iowa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM SLOSIAREK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A4) CHART: CHIPPING AWAY AT $787 BILLION: Of the $787 billion in President Obama's economic stimulus package, about 13 percent has been either paid out or committed to federal agenices as I.O.U.'s in the last three months. (Source: recovery.gov) (pg.A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); MEDICAID (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (70%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (69%); INCOME TAX (55%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



463 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Can Health Insurers Be Cost-Cutters?

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 Paul Krugman (''Harry, Louise and Barack,'' column, May 11) is absolutely right: the Obama administration should always remember the self-serving profit motives of the health care industry. 
 But this is not 1993, and most Americans are now clamoring for health reform. The administration is not without leverage at the bargaining table; in fact, it comes with a strong hand. If industry is endorsing quality, efficiency and best of all, prevention, let's make it walk the talk. 
 The administration can (and should) demand that a reformed approach to health include substantial investments in prevention. This may be America's chance to create a health system that truly protects and promotes our health; old villains cannot stand in the way. 
 Larry Cohen Executive Director Prevention Institute Oakland, Calif., May 11, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman outlines proposed cost-cutting by the ''medical-industrial complex.'' Why, thank you, medical- industrial complex! How nice to suggest lowering costs. 
 At the risk of seeming ungrateful, I wish to point out that the problem with voluntary cost reduction is that it's voluntary. As long as the logic of our system is set by a huge for-profit multipayer bureaucracy, we will continue to get low value on the health care dollar.
 Our nation's ability to afford decent health care for all our citizens must not depend on voluntary self-regulation of for-profit entities. We need single-payer national health insurance. Let's circle the wagons around health care, not around private insurance companies and Big Pharma.
 Laura S. Boylan New York, May 11, 2009
 The writer, a clinical associate professor of neurology at New York University School of Medicine, is on the board of directors of Physicians for a National Health Program, Metro New York.
 To the Editor:
 The rumor mill has it that the health insurance lobby has deemed universal health care a done deal as long as the public option is taken off the table. But Paul Krugman is right. The Obama administration should say no and gird for a fight.
 Conservatives consider government too incompetent to run anything, and would outsource all public administration to the private sector given the chance. But these same conservatives declare government-sponsored health insurance to pose unfair competition with private insurers. If such a government enterprise would be, by its nature, inefficient and incompetently administered, how could it be unfair competition and a threat to private enterprise? Which is it?
 Is government an inefficient monolith, or a more effective conduit of health care for the American people? Conservatives cannot have it both ways.
 Tom Predhome Brooklyn, May 11, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Health Care Industry Is Said to Promise to Hold Down Costs Voluntarily'' (news article, May 11):
 The offer by the stakeholders in the health care industry to cut the rate of increase in health care spending is deceptive and merely an attempt to delay the enactment of reform measures that include realistic cost constraints. How much could actually be saved by lifestyle changes in the population, better management of chronic illnesses, the use of electronic health records and so forth is uncertain, though these efforts would certainly improve health care. 
 The two largest components of health care costs today are administrative expenses (estimated at between 20 and 25 percent of spending, or $450 billion or more) and unnecessary or excessive care (estimated at between 20 and 30 percent). Unless reducing costs in these two areas is pursued aggressively, health care spending will continue to balloon, increasing the unfinanced government liabilities and damaging the economy.
 Robert A. Levine Norwalk, Conn., May 11, 2009
 The writer, an attending neurologist at Norwalk Hospital, is the author of the forthcoming ''Shock Therapy for America's Health Care System.''
 To the Editor:
 How soon we forget. The Bush administration's notion of ''voluntary compliance'' as a regulatory tool was found to be utter nonsense. Now the Obama administration is pushing the same idea for getting industry to control health care costs. It's still utter nonsense. 
 The only effective cost-control mechanisms are competition and consumer choice. Both are in short supply.
 Ron Sheppe Rochester, N.H., May 12, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHN HENDRIX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); LOBBYING (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); WRITERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); NEUROSCIENCE (72%); CONSERVATISM (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); PAUL KRUGMAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



464 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Rivals in New Jersey Tussle in First TV Debate

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

 BODY:
With an unpopular liberal Democratic incumbent awaiting one of them in November, the Republican candidates for governor of New Jersey met in a lively first televised debate on Tuesday night, warning that the state is on the brink of financial collapse and needs a true conservative to take charge.
 One of the candidates, Christopher J. Christie, the former United States attorney for New Jersey, accused Gov. Jon S. Corzine of having been ''rolled'' by legislators and union leaders. Mr. Christie vowed to bring the same forceful leadership to Trenton that he has displayed in prosecuting corrupt politicians and child pornographers. 
 But while Mr. Christie emphasized his own personality as the remedy for what he called Mr. Corzine's lack of backbone, his opponent, Steven M. Lonegan, a former mayor of a small town, emphasized his conservative philosophy and promised much more fundamental change. He called for the wholesale demolition of large parts of state government, the layoffs of ''at least 15,000'' state workers, and an end to what he termed the ''immorality and discrimination'' of New Jersey's progressive income tax.
 Mr. Christie reserved most of his barbs for the governor, but Mr. Lonegan repeatedly took aim at Mr. Christie. He mocked him for having been a one-term county freeholder early in his career, accused him of shifting his positions, and said his record as a prosecutor -- the focus of considerable attention recently for his having awarded no-bid contracts to friends -- was dangerously vulnerable to Democratic attack.
 It has been 12 years since New Jersey's Republicans won a statewide race, and the Democratic advantage has only grown in that time, but job losses, yawning budget deficits and above all Mr. Corzine's abysmal ratings have lifted Republicans' hopes heading into the party primary June 2. Sensing a winner in November, the party's moderate establishment and even some prominent conservatives have rallied behind Mr. Christie, 46, who stepped down from the prosecutor's office in Newark last year after obtaining convictions of some 130 politicians and public employees since 2002.
 But Mr. Lonegan, 53, who is mounting a classic insurgent campaign from the party's right flank, points to his 12 years as mayor of Bogota, in Bergen County, where he cut spending, lowered taxes, antagonized unions and led his outnumbered local Republicans to 11 years of political control.
 Much of the hour-long debate, broadcast on the New Jersey Network, was spent on Mr. Lonegan's turf, as he was questioned by panelists and attacked by Mr. Christie over his proposal of a flat income tax of less than 3 percent. Mr. Christie said the plan would raise taxes on 70 percent of state residents and even more of the elderly, and in the middle of a recession no less.
 ''That's why Steve Forbes, the largest advocate of a flat tax nationally, is supporting me,'' Mr. Christie said.
 ''Steve Forbes also endorsed the bailout,'' Mr. Lonegan responded, tartly dismissing Mr. Forbes. 
 The points of agreement between the rivals are likely to provide fodder for Mr. Corzine and his allies in the future. Both Mr. Christie and Mr. Lonegan vowed to veto a gay-marriage bill and, if the question were put to a referendum, to join one another in campaigning against it. They agreed that now was not the time for the state to borrow more money to preserve open space, and that state-financed prekindergarten was a bad idea. Mr. Lonegan endorsed several of Mr. Christie's health-care proposals, and Mr. Christie echoed Mr. Lonegan's call for eliminating the state's Department of the Public Advocate.
 But more often, Mr. Lonegan was attacking Mr. Christie for not being pure enough in his adherence to conservative dogma. He called it an infringement on personal freedom for Mr. Christie to want to block people from holding down more than one paid government job, including firefighters or teachers who run for office.
 Mr. Christie did not hesitate to punch back, at one point faulting Mr. Lonegan for favoring the elimination of the state's homestead rebate program, which sends checks to property-tax payers. He called it ''the only meaningful tax relief'' offered by a state government rife with ''wasteful programs.''
 ''The property tax rebate program is a scam,'' Mr. Lonegan replied sharply, saying it had driven up state debt. He vowed to deliver real property tax relief by returning more money to local governments.
 Mr. Christie, meanwhile, frequently tried to look past Mr. Lonegan by blasting away at Governor Corzine -- though in his telling, it sounded more like a two-headed Democrat named ''Jim McGreevey and Jon Corzine.''
 ''These folks spent too much, they borrowed too much, and they expect all of us to pick up the tab at the end,'' Mr. Christie said in opening the debate. He ended it by saying he had proved his doubters wrong as a prosecutor: ''If we want to change New Jersey, let's start by changing governors.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steven M. Lonegan, left, and Christopher J. Christie seek the Republican nomination for governor in the June 2 primary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEL EVANS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INCOME TAX (66%); CONTRACT AWARDS (64%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (64%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); CHILD PORNOGRAPHY (55%); PORNOGRAPHY (55%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



465 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Broadway Producer Chosen to Lead Arts Endowment

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN. 
Patrick Healy contributed additional reporting.

 BODY:
Rocco Landesman, the colorful theatrical producer and race-track aficionado who brought hits like ''Big River,'' ''Angels in America'' and ''The Producers'' to Broadway, has been nominated as the next chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts, the White House said on Tuesday. 
 The appointment, which is expected to be announced on Wednesday, surprised many in the arts world. It ends months of speculation about who would be selected to lead the nation's largest and most important arts organization. 
 The White House declined to discuss the appointment before the announcement. Mr. Landesman, whose appointment must be confirmed by Congress, also declined to comment. 
 ''It's potentially the best news the arts community in the United States has had since the birth of Walt Whitman,'' said the playwright Tony Kushner. ''He's an absolutely brilliant and brave and perfect choice for the job.'' 
 Choosing Mr. Landesman, 61, signals that Mr. Obama plans to shake things up at the endowment. While a major source of money for arts groups around the country, it has historically been something of a sleepy bureaucracy, still best known to some for the culture wars of the 1990s.
 Since then, the agency has been trying to rebuild its image on Capitol Hill, along with its budget. The current allocation stands at $145 million, and though Mr. Obama has requested $161 million for 2010, that is still short of its high of $176 million in 1992.
 Mr. Landesman, who would fill the post vacated by Dana Gioia, is expected to lobby hard for more arts money. But he is not famous for his skills as an administrator or diplomat. Rather, he is known for his energy, intellect and irreverent -- and occasionally sharp-elbowed -- candor. 
 In 2000, for example, he caused a stir by accusing nonprofit theaters of being too much like their commercial counterparts. And, as a producer of ''The Producers,'' Mr. Landesman created the controversial $480 premium ticket to combat scalpers.
 ''Rocco speaks his mind, which is probably one of the reasons he was chosen,'' said Robert Brustein, the founding director of the Yale and American Repertory Theaters. ''Rocco does not defer his opinions.''
 As the president of Jujamcyn Theaters, which owns five Broadway houses, Mr. Landesman is accustomed to calling the shots, not working within a bureaucracy. Arts executives say this is a plus. ''He is a great entrepreneur and producer and it indicates to me that the administration wants to have somebody in this position who will be much more than simply a distributor of funds,'' said Peter Gelb, general manager of the Metropolitan Opera. ''The relationship between the government and the arts needs to be energized. It needs someone like Rocco.'' 
 Mr. Landesman is expected to resign from his position at Jujamcyn, but to retain his ownership stake in the company.
 His directness may prove refreshing to official Washington, and his affinity for country music, horse racing and baseball may help grease the wheels in his conversations with members of Congress on both sides of the aisle.
 While Mr. Landesman has spent his career in the commercial theater, he earned a doctorate in dramatic literature at the Yale School of Drama and stayed on there for four years as an assistant professor. ''It's an odd choice,'' said Mr. Brustein, who taught Mr. Landesman at Yale. ''It's certainly not one that I would ever have thought of because Rocco's always been associated with the profit-making world and the N.E.A. is nonprofit.''
 Though a creature of the for-profit theater, Mr. Landesman has put his force behind work that other producers might have considered too risky for Broadway, like Mr. Kushner's Pulitzer Prize-winning play, ''Angels in America,'' and the musical ''Jelly's Last Jam.'' 
 ''He's really smart and he's really savvy and will really fight if he believes in something,'' said George C. Wolfe, who directed both productions. 
 Born and raised in St. Louis, Mr. Landesman had his undergraduate education at Colby College and the University of Wisconsin. In 1977 he left Yale to start a private investment fund, which he ran until his appointment as Jujamcyn's president in 1987. In 2005 he purchased the company.
 Rocco is married to Debby Landesman and has three sons.
 All of Jujamcyn's five theaters currently have shows running: the St. James (''Desire Under the Elms''), the Al Hirschfeld (''Hair''), the August Wilson Theater (''Jersey Boys''), the Eugene O'Neill (''33 Variations'') and the Walter Kerr (''Irena's Vow'').
 In recent years, Mr. Landesman has stepped back from active producing, although Jujamcyn still occasionally invests in shows. This year, the company made a $250,000 investment in the revival of ''Desire Under the Elms'' to help transfer the play to one of its Broadway houses from the Goodman Theater in Chicago.
 Mr. Landesman's nomination means a potential loss for Broadway underscored by the death, in November, of Gerald Schoenfeld, who had been chairman of the Shubert Organization since 1972. Mr. Landesman was among those who had begun to fill the role of elder statesman during this theater season. 
 Joe Allen, the theater district restaurateur, said that Mr. Landesman would be missed on Broadway, but that the industry would be lucky to have him in Washington. ''To have a member of the club running the endowment is a good thing,'' Mr. Allen said. ''He knows the theater world. He knows how artists work, what their concerns are, what their personalities are like.''
 Mr. Landesman met Mr. Obama before he was a presidential candidate and was a strong supporter and contributor to the campaign. 
 If confirmed, Mr. Landesman would be the 10th chairman since Congress created the endowment in 1965. Other names circulated as possible candidates included Michael M. Kaiser, president of the Kennedy Center; Michael C. Dorf, a lawyer who served on Mr. Obama's arts policy team during the campaign; and Claudine K. Brown, the program director for arts and culture at the Nathan Cummings Foundation.
 Mr. Gioia officially stepped down on Inauguration Day. Patrice Walker Powell, the endowment's deputy chairwoman for states, regions and local arts agencies, has been serving as interim chairwoman since Feb. 2.
 While previous chairmen have tried to argue the case for a stronger agency, this task will fall to the next chairman in an even tougher economic climate. ''The day of the N.E.A. being this political football of the right -- maybe those days are over and we're going to start to take it seriously,'' Mr. Kushner said.
 Mr. Landesman is expected to be a vigorous and provocative face of the agency. 
 ''Rocco is bored,'' Mr. Brustein said, ''if things just go routinely.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 14, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about the nomination of the Broadway producer Rocco Landesman as the next chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts misstated the size of the endowment's current budget. It is $155 million, not $145 million.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rocco Landesman's shows include ''The Producers.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEYUR KHAMAR/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); BUDGETS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



466 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Charity Gala Toned Down (Somewhat)

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM and GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
Grilled shrimp and chicken Milanese for 3,200. Music by the Black Eyed Peas. 
 And Oprah in a pink dress. 
 All this, by the gilded standards of the hedge fund world, seemed like a lean night out. 
 The Robin Hood Foundation's spring fund-raising event has long set the pace for charity benefits, raising tens of millions of dollars from publicity-averse hedge fund moguls who engaged in raucous bidding wars to win, say, dinner for 10 with the celebrity chef Mario Batali or a trip to Australia that included lunch with Hugh Jackman.
 That was then, this is now. The highlight of this year's benefit, held Tuesday night at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, was a far more conventional challenge grant announced by George Soros, a granddaddy of the hedge fund industry and one of the country's biggest philanthropists. 
 Mr. Soros, who had flown in from Sweden hours earlier, pledged $50 million to address the rapid increase in people in New York City seeking basic support like food and shelter if Robin Hood and its board members raised almost the same amount in each of the next two years.
 That is one of the largest gifts ever made to satisfy basic needs, according to fund-raising experts, and Mr. Soros said he hoped it would inspire other philanthropists and philanthropic institutions to make similar contributions. ''Just as needs have increased so tremendously, the philanthropic organizations have been also victims of the crisis, and they have to cut back,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''We want to reverse that with this gift.'' 
 The spirit of generosity was reflected in the total reached at the event, more than $72 million.
 Foundations and major donors are wary of being drawn into -- and sometimes legally constrained from -- the kind of checkbook philanthropy needed to support social services in harsh economic times. Typically, big-league philanthropy focuses on specific issues and tries to find strategies to resolve or eliminate them rather than work to fill empty bellies and put roofs over heads.
 Mr. Soros's foundations, which are grouped under the name Open Society Institute and scattered around the world, work on issues like early childhood education and the shortage of programs to treat addiction. ''As you know, we do some cutting-edge things in advocacy on many issues, and we will continue to do that,'' Mr. Soros said. ''But this is an exceptional situation and it calls for an exceptional response.''
 In that vein, Robin Hood changed the formula of its much-envied benefit, which has relied on a mix of celebrity, money and competitive instinct to raise vast sums for the organization. 
 This year, holding that kind of party would be akin to walking down Fifth Avenue carrying a Prada shopping bag, a reminder of a bygone era of jubilant excess that everyone is trying to forget. ''The kind of event we've had in the past just isn't appropriate right now,'' said David Saltzman, executive director of Robin Hood.
 There was still plenty of celebrity. Tickets went for $2,000 for ''individual seating'' to $50,000 for a Leadership table of 10 to $250,000 for a Sponsor table of 10.
 The giant hall, lighted with blue and pink, was decorated with six large panels depicting the New York City skyline. Oprah Winfrey joined Mr. Soros at table 247. Not far away, Michael J. Fox chatted with David A. Paterson, the governor of New York. 
 Jon Stewart returned as master of ceremonies. 
 ''Tonight is a chance for Wall Street to help all those people hurt so badly by ... Oh, sorry,'' Mr. Stewart quipped.
 Aretha Franklin, at a piano under a pink arch, sang ''Bridge Over Troubled Water.'' Numerous stars and models were guests. But the millions that had fueled bidding wars unknown in the world of charity were not on display. The bloom was already off the rose last spring, when the event raised $56.6 million, 21 percent less than it had the previous year.
 So this year, each guest had a hand-held device to use to make an anonymous contribution to Robin Hood. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Oprah Winfrey, Gov. David Paterson of New York, center, and the financier George Soros on Tuesday in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (92%); CHARITIES (92%); PHILANTHROPY (91%); HEDGE FUNDS (91%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); MAJOR GIFTS (77%); MATCHING GIFTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (50%); CHILDREN (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (89%); OPRAH WINFREY (78%); DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



467 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: A Cayman Islands Address: The Value to the U.S.

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Obama Asks Curb on Use of Havens to Reduce Taxes'' (front page, May 5): 
 It is disappointing that President Obama and the chart accompanying your article mentioned our office, Ugland House, without highlighting the benefit that Cayman companies registered at Ugland House provide to the American economy.
 Ugland House is nothing more than the registered office address for approximately 18,000 Cayman companies, in the same way that more than 200,000 companies are registered at a single address in Delaware.
 American businesses use Cayman companies to help them compete for and service global customers and foreign institutional investors in international commercial transactions, thus creating shareholder value for American investors and supporting thousands of American jobs for United States-resident businesses that provide services to those Cayman companies.
 According to data from the United States Treasury, Cayman funds are one of the largest holders of American sovereign and private debt. Moreover, several investment managers have registered funds at Ugland House to acquire ''toxic debt'' from American banks, thus helping restore liquidity to consumer and corporate debt markets. 
 Charles Jennings Joint Managing Partner Maples and Calder
 Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands May 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); TOXIC ASSETS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAYMAN ISLANDS (98%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



468 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Worries About Negative Tone

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
''Some days you're rolling the barrel, and some days you're rolling in the barrel. The fact is that right now, Republicans are rolling in the barrel.''
 Richard N. Bond, a former chairman of the Republican National Committee, offered that observation in the wake of another rough patch for the party. The latest round of intramural debate came on Sunday when Dick Cheney, the former vice president, assailed not only President Obama, but also Colin Powell, the former secretary of state, a Republican who endorsed Mr. Obama. 
 Mr. Cheney said on CBS's ''Face the Nation'' program that he would prefer Rush Limbaugh, the conservative radio commentator, to Mr. Powell, a member of the shrinking class of moderate Republicans, as spokesman for his party. Within hours, the Democratic National Committee had used video from that interview -- along with other Sunday morning appearances by Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, and Senator John McCain of Arizona, last year's Republican presidential nominee -- to produce a mocking Web advertisement that sought to portray Republicans as negative, out-of-touch and mired in the past. 
 The Republican party's difficulty in finding something forward-looking to say-- as well as the right people to say it -- has been on display for much of the six months since Mr. Obama defeated Mr. McCain. 
 Yet recent days have underlined the extent to which Republicans have another challenge: How to say it. 
 A party that has over the years been the home of a series of optimistic figures in American politics -- from Ronald Reagan to Jack Kemp, who died last week, to (at times) George W. Bush -- is increasingly coming across as downbeat or angry. And it is something that has Republicans increasingly worried. 
 How important is this? Certainly, the Republican party's first task obstacle is finding compelling leaders to make the case against the Democrats, as it builds itself back up for the elections of 2010 and 2012. And of course it has to hone an agenda that offers specific alternatives to Mr. Obama's far-reaching shifts in economic, social and national security policy.
 Yet tone matters. Time and time again, Americans have responded to optimism, delivered even in -- indeed, particularly in -- the most dire times, and even when that sunny message cloaked an attack. In many ways, Reagan's presidency was symbolized by one 1984 reelection advertisement, ''It's morning again in America,'' just as Bill Clinton's was by his choice of Fleetwood Mac's ''Don't Stop'' as a musical reminder that he was ''thinking about tomorrow.'' 
 Mike Murphy, a one-time senior adviser to Mr. McCain, argued that Mr. McCain's hopes of winning the presidency were doomed when he lost the ''Happy Warrior'' stance that had defined his political persona for so long, and simply went on the attack last year. ''Tone is important,'' he said.
 ''Ultimately, the message has to be about big things,'' said Mr. Murphy. ''But tone is how you wrap it.''
 The Republicans' task would not be an easy one even in the best of times. In Mr. Obama, they face a very popular president who, benefitting from big legislative majorities, has generally not needed to spend much time attacking Republicans himself, leaving that job to aides and surrogates. It is certainly not lost on Republicans that there has been a sharp uptick in the number of Americans who think the country is headed in the right direction -- the best measure of optimism -- since Mr. Obama has taken office.
 By contrast, the Republican Party in general -- and leaders like Mr. Cheney in particular -- are viewed unfavorably by a significant majority of Americans. That makes for a tough environment to break through and get a hearing. And it can become a spiral: going on the attack typically has the effect of making Americans sour on the attacker as well.
 Mr. Bond said that to return to power, Republicans have ''to play error-free ball'' and hope for what he described as the inevitable overreach by a party now so firmly in control of government. The real complication, he said, is coming up with ''strong public alternatives'' to make the case against Democratic policies, without appearing to be obstreperous or angry, or feeding the Democrats' attempt to paint Republicans as ''the party of 'no.' ''
 ''They have to avoid being stigmatized as a bad bunch of people,'' he said of the Republicans.
 The Democrats took obvious delight in the new round of attention paid to Mr. Cheney, Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Limbaugh, none of whom, it seems fair to say, are graduates of the Happy Warrior school of politics. Mr. Murphy said the influence of people like Mr. Limbaugh is overrated -- ''He doesn't have that much power; he has the power to make a lot of noise'' -- and that over time, less-known leaders are going to develop the voice the party needs. 
 ''We have a mix of the same old party dogma, but then you see new people popping up: Huntsman, Cantor, Jeb Bush,'' said Mr. Murphy, referring to Gov. Jon M. Huntsman Jr. of Utah, and Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the Republican Whip, and Mr. Bush, the former governor of Florida. ''You have to pick through all of that to hear the right ideas.''
 But it is not only figures from the party's past. For many Republicans, the party struck the wrong tone when Gov. Mark Sanford of South Carolina -- who also is frequently mentioned as a potential presidential candidate in 2012 -- refused a portion of the stimulus money authorized for his state as part of the economic recovery package. 
 That high-profile act of defiance drew Mr. Sanford national attention, as well as sharp attack by many people in his own state, including Republicans. It was a reminder, if Republicans needed one, of the challenges the party faces in the months ahead.
 ''It's definitely going to be a work in progress,'' Mr. Bond said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (58%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); DICK CHENEY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



469 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Document Is Critical Of E.P.A. On Clean Air

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
An internal government memorandum that came to light on Tuesday challenged the scientific and economic basis of a proposed Environmental Protection Agency finding that climate-altering gases are a threat to human health and welfare.
 The undated and unsigned government document, marked ''Deliberative -- Attorney Client Privilege,'' was compiled by the White House Office of Management and Budget from comments offered by various agencies. A White House official said that many of the criticisms and suggestions came from holdovers from the administration of President George W. Bush and had been rejected by Obama appointees.
 The nine-page document was part of a multiagency review of the proposed E.P.A. finding and had little impact on the final agency document, which was issued on April 17, officials said. But opponents of the Obama administration's approach to the regulation of heat-trapping gases seized on the memorandum in a flurry of press statements and in a Senate hearing on Tuesday. 
 The document said the proposed finding that greenhouse gases threatened health and the environment was not based on a systematic analysis of costs and benefits and fell short of scientific rigor on a number of issues.
 It also said that the E.P.A.'s proposal to regulate carbon dioxide under the Clean Air Act would have ''serious economic consequences for regulated entities throughout the U.S. economy, including small businesses and small communities.''
 The document also questioned the agency's inclusion of gases that are believed to contribute to global warming without proving that they had adverse health effects.
 Some of the objections mirror longstanding criticism of the proposed E.P.A. action from Republicans and business lobbies who say that the Clean Air Act is the wrong instrument for combating global warming and that such regulation will have devastating effects on the economy.
 Senator John Barrasso, Republican of Wyoming, waved the document at Lisa P. Jackson, the E.P.A. administrator, at a hearing of the Environment and Public Works Committee. Mr. Barrasso called it a ''smoking gun'' that proved that the proposed finding was based on politics, not science.
 ''This misuse of the Clean Air Act will be a trigger for overwhelming regulation and lawsuits based on gases emitted from cars, schools, hospitals and small business,'' Mr. Barrasso said. ''This will affect any number of other sources, including lawn mowers, snowmobiles and farms. This will be a disaster for the small businesses that drive America.''
 Ms. Jackson replied that the E.P.A. was obligated by the Supreme Court to decide whether heat-trapping gases pose a danger to human health and the environment. She said much of the analysis behind the proposed finding had been completed before she assumed office in January. She added that the comments reflected ''people's opinions'' and were not binding on the agency.
 Ms. Jackson also reiterated that the Obama administration wanted a legislative solution based on a cap-and-trade program for emissions of heat-trapping gases rather than a regulatory scheme dictated by the E.P.A. 
 ''We do understand there are costs to the economy of regulating greenhouse emissions,'' she said.
 Peter R. Orszag, the president's budget director, wrote on a White House blog that the comments in the document did not reflect his views or the president's. 
 Mr. Orszag said the proposed finding was ''carefully rooted in both law and science'' and did not, by itself, impose any regulations.
 ''If and when the endangerment finding is made final,'' he wrote, repeating comments he made when the preliminary finding was issued, ''the E.P.A. will turn to the question whether and how to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from new automobiles.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); PRIVILEGED COMMUNICATIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICS (75%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); LITIGATION (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); ATTORNEY CLIENT PRIVILEGE (57%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (71%); LISA P JACKSON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



470 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Recession Erodes 2 Largest Funds In U.S. Safety Net

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Even as Congress hunted for ways to finance a major expansion of health insurance coverage, the Obama administration reported Tuesday that the financial condition of the two largest federal benefit programs, Medicare and Social Security, had deteriorated, in part because of the recession.
 As a result, the administration said, the Medicare fund that pays hospital bills for older Americans is expected to run out of money in 2017, two years sooner than projected last year. The Social Security trust fund will be exhausted in 2037, four years earlier than predicted, it said. 
 Spending on Social Security and Medicare totaled more than $1 trillion last year, accounting for more than one-third of the federal budget.
 The fragility of the two programs is a concern not just for current beneficiaries, but also for future retirees, taxpayers and politicians. Lawmakers say they would never allow Medicare's trust fund to run out of money. But beneficiaries could be required to pay higher premiums, co-payments and deductibles to help cover the costs. 
 The projected date of insolvency, a widely used measure of the benefit programs' financial health, shows the immense difficulties Mr. Obama and Congress will face in trying to shore them up while also extending health coverage to millions of Americans. 
 The labor secretary, Hilda L. Solis, noted that 5.7 million jobs had been lost since the recession began in December 2007. With fewer people working, the government collects less in payroll taxes, a major source of financing for Medicare and Social Security.
 A resumption of economic growth is not expected to close the financing gap. The trustees' bleak projections already assume that the economy will begin to recover late this year. 
 The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, said the only way to keep Medicare solvent was to ''control runaway growth in both public and private health care expenditures.'' And he said Mr. Obama intended to do that as part of his plan to guarantee access to health insurance for all Americans. 
 But if cost controls do not produce the expected savings, Congress is likely to find it difficult to preserve benefits without increasing taxes. 
 Just hours before the trustees of Medicare and Social Security issued their annual report, suggesting that the nation could not afford the programs it had, the Senate Finance Committee finished a hearing on how to pay for the expansion of health insurance coverage that Mr. Obama seeks.
 Mr. Obama has said he does not want to finance expanded health coverage with more deficit spending. Rather, he says, Congress must find ways to offset the costs, so they do not add to the deficit over the next decade.
 Federal deficits and debt are soaring because of the recession and federal efforts to shore up banks and other industries while trying to revive the economy with a huge infusion of federal spending. 
 ''The financial outlook for the hospital insurance trust fund is significantly less favorable than projected in last year's annual report,'' the Medicare trustees said. ''Actual payroll tax income in 2008 and projected future amounts are significantly lower than previously projected, due to lower levels of average wages and fewer covered workers.''
 In coming years, the trustees said, Medicare spending will increase faster than either workers' earnings or the economy over all.
 The trustees predicted that, for the first time in more than three decades, Social Security recipients would not receive any increase in their benefits next year or in 2011. In 2012, they predicted, the cost-of-living adjustment will be 1.4 percent.
 The updates are calculated under a statutory formula and reflect changes in the Consumer Price Index, which was unusually high last year because of energy prices.
 If there is no cost-of-living adjustment for Social Security, about three-fourths of Medicare beneficiaries will not see any change in their basic premiums for Part B, which covers doctors' services. The monthly premium, now $96.40, is usually deducted from Social Security checks, the main source of income for more than half of older Americans.
 The trustees said that one-fourth of Medicare beneficiaries would face sharply higher premiums: about $104 next year and $120 in 2011. This group includes new Medicare beneficiaries and those with higher incomes (over about $85,000 a year for individuals and $170,000 for couples).
 Seventy-five percent of beneficiaries will not pay any increase, so the remaining 25 percent have to pay more to keep the trust fund at the same level, Medicare officials said.
 The aging of baby boomers will strain both Medicare and Social Security, but Medicare's financial problems are more urgent.
 The trustees predict a 30 percent increase in the number of Medicare beneficiaries in the coming decade, to 58.8 million in 2018, from 45.2 million last year. 
 But the projected increase in health costs and the use of medical care is a more significant factor in the growth of Medicare. The trustees predict that average Medicare spending per beneficiary will increase more than 50 percent, to $17,000 in 2018, from $11,000 last year.
 Representative Pete Stark, the California Democrat who is chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, said the Medicare report ''underscores the urgent need for health reform.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, with, from left, Michael J. Astrue, the Social Security administrator, Kathleen Sebelius, the Health and Human Services secretary, and Labor Secretary Hilda L. Solis, discussed the financial status of benefit programs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A3) CHART: DWINDLING ASSETS: The projected number of years that the Medicare and Social Security trust funds would remain solvent. (Sources: Treasury Department
 Health and Human Services Department) (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (91%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); CORPORATE TAX (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); HILDA L SOLIS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



471 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: Health Care, A Lesson In Pain

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The events of the last few weeks have raised the odds that a health care overhaul will really happen this year. 
 Democrats have suggested that they are willing to play hardball and pass a bill without Republican support. Arlen Specter, the senior Pennsylvania senator, became a Democrat, potentially adding one more vote. At the White House on Monday, lobbyists for doctors, insurers and other industry groups pledged to reduce the growth of medical spending.
 Yet none of these developments has removed the main hurdle to health care reform: the matter of the missing $90 billion.
 Providing health insurance to the roughly 50 million people without it will cost something like $120 billion a year. President Obama has proposed $60 billion or so in new revenue for this purpose -- a ''down payment,'' his advisers say. But Congress seems set to reject about half of the down payment (a plan to limit high-income families' tax deductions for charitable giving and other such things). That makes for the $90 billion health care hole. 
 And no one is quite sure how to fill it.
 Because Mr. Obama has made it clear that health care is his top legislative priority, the $90 billion hole has become one of the biggest political issues of 2009. The Obama administration's health care team is now preoccupied by it. On Tuesday, the Senate began to consider it, at a packed round-table discussion among 13 prominent health experts and members of the finance committee.
 ''Now it's time to think about money,'' said Max Baucus, the Montana Democrat who heads the committee. 
 The experts at the round table -- liberal and conservative -- actually agreed to an impressive degree about the best way to fill the hole. They urged the senators to limit the tax deduction for employer-provided health insurance.
 The deduction may seem a wonderful thing, but it isn't. It benefits the wealthy more than anyone else. It encourages employers to overspend on health insurance, because $100 in untaxed medical benefits is more valuable to workers than $100 in taxed income. And, as Mr. Baucus said, the deduction has a certain Willie Sutton appeal for Congress: it's where the money is. 
 The government forgoes $250 billion a year in taxes because of the deduction. Capping it, to apply only to reasonably priced health plans, would bring in enough money to fill most of the $90 billion hole. 
 The idea seems to be classic Obama: empirical, pragmatic, bipartisan. Unfortunately, it happens to be an idea that John McCain campaigned on last year and that Mr. Obama, sensing a political opening, blasted as a tax increase. ''Taxing health care instead of fixing it,'' intoned the narrator in an Obama campaign advertisement, with ominous music playing in the background. ''We can't afford John McCain.''
 Mr. Obama's economic advisers would be happy to see him reverse his position. But his political advisers remember that ad and know it could be used against him. Further complicating matters, labor unions and Charles Rangel, the influential Democratic House member, say they remain firmly opposed to capping the deduction.
 All of which means that filling the $90 billion hole is going to be very tricky.
 If the tax deduction can't be touched, the first alternative is simply to add the $90 billion a year to the deficit, to cover the uninsured now and pay for it later, as President George W. Bush did with his tax cuts, the Iraq war and the Medicare prescription drug benefit. In another time, this might have been politically palatable. But it isn't now, not when this year's deficit is projected to be larger than any since the end of World War II. 
 That leaves two ways to pay for an expansion of health insurance: raise taxes or cut health spending. 
 Economically, spending cuts have a lot to recommend them. The United States spends vastly more per person on medical care than any other country. Much of that spending does nothing to improve health, as chronicled in this newspaper's recent ''Evidence Gap'' series. Getting rid of such waste could pay for universal health insurance, several times over, and prevent Medicare from going bankrupt. 
 The $30 billion that remains of Mr. Obama's down payment plucks the low-hanging fruit of cost reduction, like the subsidies for private insurers to provide the same coverage as Medicare at a higher cost. But the precise strategy for finding a lot more savings is still murky. ''Reducing spending without also affecting services that do improve health,'' says Douglas Elmendorf, director of the Congressional Budget Office, ''is challenging.'' 
 The Obama administration is laying the groundwork for a more efficient system by pushing for more research into medical effectiveness. But we're not there yet, and getting there won't be easy. Consider that some of the same industry groups that pledged to reduce medical spending this week are also trying to block effectiveness research -- the very thing that would tell us how to reduce spending without damaging people's health.
 So over the short term, tax increases are probably necessary, though they have their own problems. Will the 85 percent of people with health insurance be willing to pay higher taxes for something approaching universal coverage? 
 Congress has already rejected several of Mr. Obama's proposals to reduce the budget deficit, including the plan to limit charitable deductions for the affluent. The other ideas that have been floated, like taxing high-calorie sodas, wouldn't raise anywhere near $90 billion a year. 
 You can imagine a bill that mixes together lots of different revenue sources, in typical sausage-making style. But it's hard to get to $90 billion without changing the deduction for employer-provided health insurance. ''I just don't know where else you get enough money,'' says Jonathan Gruber, an M.I.T. economist and one of the round-table panelists.
 One possibility is that Congress will pass a bill capping the deduction, and Mr. Obama will be able to claim that he is signing it reluctantly. Another possibility, however, is that we need to begin thinking about whether health care reform is possible even if some significant number of people remain uninsured.
 What might that look like?
 The subsidies for insurance, which make up most of the $120 billion price tag, would have to be reduced, leaving some people unable to afford coverage but also cutting the bill's cost. That would be the painful compromise. 
 The second, crucial step would be doing everything possible to get rid of wasteful medical spending: using the force of law to hold medical providers to their cost-reduction pledges; moving Medicare away from a fee-for-service model that pays for quantity, not quality; encouraging low-cost hospitals to grow and high-cost hospitals to change -- or shrink.
 During the campaign, Mr. Obama emphasized universal insurance more than costs. Since taking office, he has shifted his focus somewhat. ''What we have done,'' Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, told me this week, ''is raise cost control to the same level as expanded coverage.''
 Cost control has the political benefit of appealing to the 85 percent of people with insurance. And it has enormous economic benefits, too. If costs can be reduced, the price of covering the uninsured will come way down. Put differently, the only way to have a sustainable universal health care system is to control costs. 
 In an ideal world, Congress and Mr. Obama would find the $90 billion to cover all the uninsured now. But if they don't, health care reform is not an all-or-nothing proposition. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thirteen prominent health experts took part in a round table Tuesday on overhauling health care. Many urged senators to limit the tax deduction for employer-provided health insurance.
 Senator Max Baucus, left, head of the finance committee, and Senator Charles Grassley, its ranking Republican. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (88%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); INSURANCE (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); TAX LAW (74%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (73%); FAMILY (73%); CHARITIES (72%); CHARITABLE GIVING (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MAX BAUCUS (78%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



472 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Coal Producer Buys a Rival for $1.4 Billion in Stock

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: CHARLESTON, W.Va. 

 BODY:
Alpha Natural Resources said Tuesday that it planned to buy a rival, Foundation Coal Holdings, for about $1.4 billion in stock in a deal that would transform two regional companies into one of the nation's largest coal producers. 
 Foundation Coal shares jumped almost 24 percent in morning trading while Alpha Resources shares slipped 4 percent.
 In a conference call with analysts, the chief executive of Foundation, James F. Roberts, defended creating a bigger company despite growing opposition to coal from the Obama administration.
 ''We can't generate the energy we need without coal,'' Mr. Roberts said. Coal generates about half the nation's electricity. ''By everybody's estimates that amount is going to increase over the next 20 years.''
 Under President Obama, the Environmental Protection Agency has begun scrutinizing -- and objecting to -- permits for surface coal mines in the eastern United States, and the Interior Department has taken steps to reverse a mining-friendly stream buffer regulation adopted late in the Bush administration.
 The Alpha chief executive, Michael J. Quillen, said the deal diluted his company's risk from environmental regulations. Alpha operates in West Virginia, Virginia, Kentucky and Pennsylvania, where resistance to surface mining is strongest. Besides operations in Appalachia, Foundation has mines in Wyoming, where surface mining faces less resistance.
 ''It does actually spread out the risk,'' Mr. Quillen said during the conference call. The Powder River Basin in Wyoming and Montana ''is not under the same pressures that we are.''
 Alpha and other large coal companies routinely say they are scouting for acquisitions, but major deals have proved elusive in recent years.
 Alpha, based in Abingdon, Va., earlier agreed to a $2.7 billion takeover by the Cleveland-based iron ore producer Cliffs Natural Resources. The deal drew objections from Cliffs' largest shareholder and was scuttled in November.
 Less than a month later, Alpha warned that the slowing economy could shave as much as $95 million from 2009 profits.
 In addition to what Alpha Natural Resources is paying in stock for Foundation Coal Holdings, it will assume $530 million in debt. The companies value the total transaction including debt at about $2 billion.
 Combined, Alpha and Foundation would have generated $4.2 billion in revenue last year.
 They control 59 mines, 14 processing plants and a combined 2.3 billion tons of coal reserves, making them the nation's No. 3 producer behind Peabody Energy and Arch Coal. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL MINING (93%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); SURFACE MINING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (90%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (71%); IRON MINING (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); RIVERS (67%)

COMPANY: ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES INC (84%); PEABODY ENERGY CORP (84%); CLIFFS NATURAL RESOURCES INC (53%); ARCH COAL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%)

TICKER: ANR (NYSE) (84%); BTU (NYSE) (84%); CLF (PAR) (53%); CLF (NYSE) (53%); ACI (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (84%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (84%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (84%); SIC1221 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (84%); NAICS213113 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR COAL MINING (84%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (53%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%); MICHAEL J QUILLEN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, WV, USA (79%) WYOMING, USA (93%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



473 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 U.S. IS ELECTED TO A SEAT ON THE U.N. RIGHTS COUNCIL
 The United Nations Human Rights Council had been derided by the Bush administration for abuses among members. But the Obama administration decided that it had a better chance to change the council by joining it. PAGE A5 
 PAKISTAN STEPS UP ATTACKS 
 Military officials said that Pakistani commandos attacked a large group of Taliban fighters in the contested district of Swat and that the number of civilians fleeing the fighting reached 1.3 million. PAGE A12 
 HOSPITAL IS HIT IN SRI LANKA
 A hospital was reported to have been hit by artillery strikes, killing at least 47 people. It is the last hospital serving 50,000 civilians caught between the government and the rebels they are fighting. PAGE A6 
 National
 DOCUMENT CRITICIZES 
 E.P.A. on Clean Air
 An internal government memorandum said the Environmental Protection Agency's basis for concluding that climate-altering gases are a threat to human health fell short of scientific rigor. PAGE A19 
 LOSING GROUND ON HOMES
 According to the Pew Hispanic Center, the gains made in homeownership by African-Americans and native-born Latinos have been eroding faster in the economic downturn than those of whites. PAGE A16 
 New York
 FIRM'S EX-EMPLOYEE PLEADS GUILTY IN PENSION INQUIRY
 A former employee of the Wetherly Capital Group, based in Los Angeles, pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor related to securities fraud, drawing the investment firm further into New York State's pension fund corruption investigation. PAGE A24
 Business
 APPLE FIGHTS 'JAILBREAKING'
 By iPhone Users
 The growing popularity of ''jailbreaking'' -- downloading software that bypasses Apple's restrictions and allows the use of unauthorized applications on the iPhone -- has set up a legal battle between Apple and users who want to customize their phones. PAGE B1
 TOYOTA TIGHTENS ITS BELT
 Toyota is making changes and trying to cut costs at every level, after recently announcing a 2008 loss of $7.7 billion and projecting a bigger shortfall for 2009. PAGE B1
 STANFORD EXECUTIVE INDICTED
 Laura Pendergest-Holt, the chief investment officer for the Stanford Financial Group, was indicted by a grand jury on charges that she obstructed a federal inquiry into a fraud characterized as a huge Ponzi scheme. PAGE B8
 SHIPS TREADING WATER
 A steep drop in global trade has left hundreds of cargo ships idling along the coast of Singapore, awaiting cargo. PAGE B1
 Arts
 BROADWAY PRODUCER CHOSEN TO LEAD ARTS ENDOWMENT
 President Obama has reached into the world of New York theater to select the maverick Broadway producer Rocco Landesman to be the next chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts. PAGE C1
 THE ARTIST AS A YOUNG MAN?
 The Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth has acquired what some scholars now say is the first known painting made by Michelangelo. If he created it, he did so when he was only 12 or 13. PAGE C1
 'LOST' LOSES ITS BEARINGS
 Ginia Bellafante writes that what has been most dispiriting about the current season of ABC's ''Lost'' is the show's willingness to abandon many of the themes that grounded the elaborate plot. PAGE C2
 Sports
 SELLING YANKEE STADIUM,
 Piece by Piece
 The Yankees are dismantling the old Yankee Stadium and trying to sell off thousands of items to help recoup the $11.5 million that the team agreed to pay to New York City for the right to gut the publicly owned stadium. PAGE B13
 CLEMENS SPEAKS TO MEDIA
 In a rare radio interview, Roger Clemens reiterated that he has never used performance-enhancing drugs. PAGE B13
 Phelps to Focus on Sprints B12
 Dining
 COOK-OFFS ARE SIZZLING THANKS TO THE INTERNET
 The popularity of New York area cook-offs owes much to the Internet's social connectivity. PAGE D1 
 Op-ed
 MAUREEN DOWD PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); INDICTMENTS (86%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (86%); SMARTPHONES (86%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); TALIBAN (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); GUILTY PLEAS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (69%); GRAND JURY (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); THEATER (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); PONZI SCHEMES (64%); MISDEMEANORS (64%); MARINE SHIPPING (64%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%); COASTAL AREAS (60%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (83%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (83%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT WORTH, TX, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); SRI LANKA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



474 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Congress Seizes on Credit Cards, Backed by Popular Support

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Congress has reached its limit with the credit card industry.
 Swamped by consumer complaints about excessive fees, sudden interest rate increases, indecipherable fine print, debt-ridden college students and a deluge of solicitations for even more credit, lawmakers are racing to put new restrictions on card companies, seizing on an issue with overwhelming popular and political appeal.
 Banks and credit card companies have been able to fend off similar efforts in the past, particularly with help from powerful lawmakers from Delaware and South Dakota, where large credit card operations providing thousands of jobs are based. While a senator, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware was an important industry ally. 
 Mr. Biden is now in the White House, which has decided to embrace the effort to rein in credit card companies. President Obama will press for passage of legislation later this week on a swing through the West.
 Lawmakers say the industry's time has come, particularly since consumers are being hit with new fees and higher interest rates during an economic slowdown when they most need the flexibility provided by the cards -- what Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, described as a ''double whammy.''
 ''We like credit cards -- they are valuable vehicles for many people,'' said Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, the chairman of the Senate banking committee and author of the measure now being considered by the Senate. ''It's when these vehicles are being abused by the card issuers at the expense of the consumers that we must step in and change the rules.''
 The growing momentum behind the credit card crackdown was in marked contrast to the Senate decision last week to bow to the banking industry and reject a plan to allow bankruptcy judges to restructure mortgages of struggling homeowners. The difference shows that lawmakers see public antagonism to credit card companies as running deep enough to offset even such a powerful lobbying interest.
 The Senate bill does not cap or freeze interest rates, as some advocates have said is warranted. But it goes farther than a measure already easily passed by the House in imposing an array of new restrictions on credit card companies.
 The Senate measure would prohibit companies from raising interest rates on existing balances unless a card holder was 60 days behind, and then would require the rate to be restored to its previous level if payments were on time for six months. Consumers would have to be notified of rate increases 45 days in advance. Companies would not be allowed to charge late fees if they were late in processing a payment.
 Statements would have to be mailed 21 days before payment was due. It would be more difficult to provide cards to those under age 21. Rates on new accounts could not be increased within the first year, and promotional rates would have to be in force for at least six months. Gift cards would have to be good for at least five years.
 Banking industry officials acknowledge that credit card companies are squarely in the sights of Congress and the White House. They warn that making restrictions too tight could dry up lending for consumers and small businesses that rely on the cards.
 ''We know in the end they are going to pass very tough legislation,'' said Edward L. Yingling, president of the American Bankers Association. ''We just hope they don't go overboard.''
 While saying the industry fears that Congress will set deadlines for the new rules that will be difficult for companies to meet, Mr. Yingling said card issuers realize that changes had to be made.
 ''The industry recognizes that the product got way too complicated, and people didn't understand it and perceived they were being treated unfairly,'' he said. 
 Just how unhappy the public is was reflected on the Senate floor. 
 In nearly two days of Senate debate so far this week, not one senator has stepped forward to defend the card companies or blame consumers who have run up substantial credit card debt for causing some of their own problems. Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, did slow the bill on Tuesday, but to make a point on an unrelated issue -- the ability to carry guns in national parks -- not on credit cards. 
 The popularity of tighter restrictions on credit card issuers has certainly not been lost on the White House, where internal polls show near universal support for new rules.
 Mr. Obama called for a crackdown on credit card companies in his radio address last weekend and is expected to emphasize the need for industry changes on a visit to New Mexico on Thursday. Democrats have gone on the attack against lawmakers who have opposed the changes or even been unwilling to state their position on an issue that cuts across demographic lines.
 ''The numbers are just off the charts,'' Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Senate Democrat, said on Tuesday.
 The key to the strong Senate prospects for the legislation was an agreement between Mr. Dodd and Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the senior Republican on the banking committee.
 ''Credit card contracts are unclear, at best, and thoroughly confusing at worst,'' Mr. Shelby said on Tuesday. ''Card issuers raise rates for unclear reasons, use billing methods that consumers do not understand and assign fees and charges without warning. This bill seeks to remedy this.'' 
 Mr. Shelby won some concessions, but once he was on board, passage of the measure became virtually certain. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said he and many other Republicans would take their cues from Mr. Shelby.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Christopher J. Dodd discussed credit card legislation on Tuesday at a Capitol Hill news conference with other lawmakers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (94%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (92%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); LOBBYING (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); JUDGES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (74%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); CARL LEVIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



475 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: New Focus on Finance Firm Pay

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY and ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Obama Administration officials are contemplating a major overhaul of the compensation practices in the financial services industry, moving beyond banks to include more loosely regulated hedge funds and private equity firms. 
 Federal policymakers have been discussing ways to ensure that pay is more closely linked to performance.
Among the ideas under consideration are incorporating compensation as a ''safety and soundness'' concern on official bank examinations as well as expanding the existing regulatory powers of the Securities and Exchange Commission and Federal Reserve to obtain more information. 
 Any overhaul is likely to be tied the Obama Administration's broader efforts to curb systemic risk to the economy. That means the new rules could apply to financial firms like hedge funds or private equity firms that never accepted money from the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP. It would also mean greater oversight on compensation for banks that are seeking to return the TARP money in an effort to avoid the new strings attached to pay.
 Administration officials have been contemplating sweeping pay reforms since early this year. In February, the Treasury Department was instructed to write detailed guidelines to the executive pay clause that was inserted at the 11th hour into the economic stimulus bill. 
 But the effort seems to have been put off after the furor over bonuses at the insurance giant American International Group. 
 Treasury officials have said new executive compsenation rules could be released shortly, with some bankers and lawmakers expecting them to be formally released before the Memorial Day recess. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); INSURANCE (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (71%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (67%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (67%); 8685 (TSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



476 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Restless in Tallahassee, or With Eye On 2012, Governor Rolls Dice

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE and GARY FINEOUT; Damien Cave reported from Miami, and Gary Fineout from Tallahassee, Fla.

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
Gov. Charlie Crist officially announced Tuesday that he would run for the United States Senate, trading a likely second term in Tallahassee for the chance to serve in Washington -- as a junior senator, in a minority party that has often wanted little or nothing to do with moderates like him. 
 So why would he do it? 
 Mr. Crist has always been a restless politician, moving from one job to the next, and many here suspect that he harbors presidential ambitions while fearing that term limits would push him into obscurity if he won a second and final four years as governor.
 It is clearly a gamble. In Florida, Mr. Crist is betting that he can sustain his popularity even as he starts a campaign during the state's worst recession in decades. And in Washington, he is betting that Republican conservatives will not banish him to a cloakroom for his support of President Obama's stimulus measure.
 Mr. Crist, 52, seems fully aware of the risks. On Tuesday, his announcement arrived by e-mail before 9:30 a.m. with little fanfare, stressing that ''as governor, each day I will continue to focus on fighting for all Floridians'' and that he would like to ''take that fight'' to Congress. 
 To emphasize his on-the-job campaign, Mr. Crist answered questions about his decision at a news conference in Tallahassee that was called to announce emergency management appointments. After saying repeatedly that he could ''serve the people best'' in the Senate, he brushed aside criticism that he was not conservative enough for Washington. 
 ''We do things a little bit differently here in Florida,'' Mr. Crist said. ''I think, regardless of party, we have to work together to get things done.''
 Jim Greer, chairman of the Republican Party of Florida, said Mr. Crist had come to the conclusion that in the current age of activist government, Washington offered more opportunities for having a direct impact on Floridians' daily lives. 
 ''Usually when Washington makes a decision, you don't see the result of those decisions for a long time,'' he said. ''That's not the case today. The decisions they make today, we may see by this afternoon.''
 Susan A. MacManus, a political science professor at the University of South Florida, said Mr. Crist might be angling for the White House after being passed over for the vice-presidential nomination last year by Senator John McCain. 
 ''In the past, people always talked about how the best path to the presidency is thought to be the governor's office,'' Ms. MacManus said. ''But with all the globalization and international issues, the Obama victory may be the start of a time when the path is more through Congress.'' 
 Mr. Crist has a well-earned reputation for restlessness. Always energetic and often very tan, he has served in five positions since entering politics in 1992 as a state senator from St. Petersburg. He will be the state's first sitting governor in decades not to run for re-election, and since 2000 he has been elected to three jobs, bouncing from commissioner of education to attorney general to governor. 
 His job-hopping has already become the Democrats' main line of attack. In an e-mail message sent to supporters on Tuesday, the party declared, ''After just 30 months as governor, Charlie Crist is leaving his job, avoiding responsibility and leaving the hard work of facing Florida's problems to the next governor.''
 State Senator Dan Gelber, a Democrat from Miami Beach who is also running for the Senate seat held by Mel Martinez, a Republican who decided not to seek re-election, said Mr. Crist was ''going to have to explain why he's making the jump'' when the state's unemployment rate hovers around 10 percent and foreclosures continue to flood the market. 
 ''The truth is,'' Mr. Gelber said, ''it's going to be hard to make the case that what Florida needs is a junior senator in a decidedly minority party.''
 Some Republicans are also unhappy. Even before Mr. Crist announced his candidacy, several groups, including the Florida Conservative Reform Caucus, posted an online petition for people who want the governor to ''stay on the job.''
 Another wild card is how he will fare with the national party. On Tuesday, Mr. Crist received a warm official welcome: Senator John Cornyn of Texas, chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, endorsed him before noon. 
 But Mr. Crist's appearance in February beside Mr. Obama at a rally for the economic stimulus effort continues to rankle the party's Washington establishment and could hurt his ability to stand out in Congress.
 By Tuesday evening, conservatives were demanding that Mr. Cornyn resign for backing Mr. Crist and not State Representative Marco Rubio, 37, a conservative Hispanic and former speaker of the Florida House who has promised to make the Senate race a competition for the soul of the Republican Party.
 One blogger even called for a ''fire Cornyn'' rally outside the senator's office -- a proposal Mr. Rubio might support. 
 On Fox News on Tuesday, in a preview of what is likely to come, Mr. Rubio lashed out at Mr. Crist and other moderates for retreating from true Republican values.
 ''One wing of the party -- I don't believe it is the majority wing of the party -- believes that if you can't beat them, join them,'' Mr. Rubio said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In announcing his candidacy on Tuesday, Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida said he could ''serve the people best'' in the Senate.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WALLHEISER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TERM LIMITS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: CHARLIE CRIST (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (78%) FLORIDA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



477 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: A Republican Chorus Struggles With Tone

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
''Some days you're rolling the barrel and some days you're rolling in the barrel. The fact is that right now, Republicans are rolling in the barrel.''
 Richard N. Bond, a former chairman of the Republican National Committee, offered that observation in the wake of another rough patch for the party. The latest round of intramural debate came on Sunday when former Vice President Dick Cheney assailed not only President Obama, but also Colin L. Powell, a former Republican secretary of state who endorsed Mr. Obama last year. Mr. Cheney said he would prefer Rush Limbaugh over Mr. Powell as a leader for Republicans. 
 Within hours, the Democratic National Committee had used video of Mr. Cheney's comments to produce a mocking Web advertisement that sought to portray Republicans as negative, out of touch and mired in the past. 
 The Republican Party's difficulty in finding something forward-looking to say -- as well as the right people to say it -- has been on display for much of the six months since Mr. Obama defeated Senator John McCain. 
 Yet recent days have underlined the extent to which Republicans have another challenge: How to say it.
 A party and a conservative movement that over the years have been home to a parade of optimistic figures in American politics -- like Ronald Reagan and Jack Kemp, who died last week -- is increasingly worried about coming across as downbeat or angry. 
 The Republican Party is largely occupied at the moment with finding compelling leaders to make the case against the Democrats going into the 2010 midterm elections and with developing an agenda that offers specific alternatives to Mr. Obama's approach. 
 Yet tone matters. Time and time again, Americans have responded to optimism, delivered even in -- indeed, particularly in -- the most dire times, even if that sunny message cloaked an attack. Reagan's presidency was symbolized by one 1984 re-election advertisement, ''It's morning again in America,'' just as Bill Clinton's was by his choice of Fleetwood Mac's ''Don't Stop'' as a musical reminder that he was ''thinking about tomorrow.'' 
 Mike Murphy, a onetime senior adviser to Mr. McCain, argued that Mr. McCain's hopes of winning the presidency were doomed when he lost the ''Happy Warrior'' stance that had defined his political persona for so long last year and simply went on the attack. ''Ultimately, the message has to be about big things,'' Mr. Murphy said. ''But tone is how you wrap it.''
 This would not be an easy task in the best of times. In Mr. Obama, the Republicans face a very popular president who, benefiting from big legislative majorities, has generally not needed to spend much time attacking Republicans, leaving that job to aides and surrogates. It is certainly not lost on Republicans that there has been a sharp rise in the number of Americans who think the country is headed in the right direction since Mr. Obama has taken office.
 By contrast, the Republican Party is viewed unfavorably by a significant majority of Americans. That makes for a tough environment to break through and get a hearing. And it can become a spiral: going on the attack typically makes Americans sour on the attacker as well.
 The big challenge for Republicans, Mr. Bond said, is to make a strong case against Democratic policies, without appearing as obstreperous or angry.
 ''They have to avoid being stigmatized as a bad bunch of people,'' he said.
 The Democrats took obvious delight in the new round of attention paid to Mr. Cheney and two others they view as symbols of the past, Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, and Mr. Limbaugh, the conservative talk show host. None of them, it seems fair to say, are graduates of the Happy Warrior school of politics. Mr. Murphy said the influence of people like Mr. Limbaugh was overrated -- ''he doesn't have that much power; he has the power to make a lot of noise'' -- and that over time, less-known leaders are going to develop the voice the party needs. 
 ''We have a mix of the same old party dogma, but then you see new people popping up: Huntsman, Cantor, Jeb Bush,'' said Mr. Murphy, referring to Gov. Jon Huntsman Jr. of Utah, Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the Republican whip, and Mr. Bush, the former governor of Florida. ''You have to pick through all of that to hear the right ideas.''
 But it is not only figures from the party's past. For many Republicans, the party struck the wrong tone when Gov. Mark Sanford of South Carolina, who is also frequently mentioned as a potential presidential candidate in 2012, refused a portion of the stimulus money authorized for his state as part of the economic recovery package. 
 That high-profile act of defiance drew Mr. Sanford national attention, as well as a sharp attack by many people in his own state, including Republicans. It was a reminder, if Republicans needed one, of the challenges the party faces in the months ahead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%)

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (58%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (56%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); DICK CHENEY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (77%); BILL CLINTON (73%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009



478 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ROOMS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: Sixty Floors Up, a Mogul Exudes Confidence

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
A couple of weeks ago, the real estate developer Larry A. Silverstein pulled up at his brand-new building, at 600 West 42nd Street in Manhattan, in a silver Mercedes-Benz. He was clearly in a hurry, and bounded from the back door in a classic light-brown trench coat. His driver swept the door with a feather duster when he left. 
 A camera crew was waiting in the living room of the penthouse, 60 stories up, to tape him for a new promotional video designed to move apartments at the building, a glass-and-steel behemoth that begins accepting tenants next month. Mr. Silverstein seemed focused on the marketing task at hand. As he stepped inside the exterior elevator, someone asked him how he planned to do it: lease 1,359 units -- some with rents as high as $4,700 a month -- in the worst real-estate market in perhaps a dozen years. 
 ''Beats the hell out of me,'' he said, throwing a jocular elbow. ''I've been asking myself that question for weeks.''
 If lawyers survive on wit and bankers survive on gut, perhaps real estate moguls survive on sheer bravado, the unassailable ability to erect tall buildings in a single bound and worry about the tenants somewhat later. Mr. Silverstein, 78, is a developer in the sheer bravado mold. He strolled into the living room and proclaimed the view ''spectacular -- not good, not extraordinary -- spectacular.'' He pointed out the window at the city spread below him like a lunch tray, making certain that the camera caught a favorable angle on his face.
 The room itself was a shell: a few hundred square feet of empty concrete floor, naked wires hanging out of holes in the ceiling and white walls marked with stripes of tester paint. Plaster flakes had gathered like dandruff in the corners, and the windows needed cleaning. But Mr. Silverstein saw only the dream, insisting that the opportunity to rent here was ''spectacular'' -- in fact, not only spectacular -- but ''superb.''
 ''In this city, real estate is an inevitable process,'' he suggested, brushing off complaints about a bad market in some video-friendly sunlight near the window. ''There is an insatiable need -- insatiable -- for rental housing in New York.'' 
 Such indomitable optimism is, depending on one's social orientation, either everything that is wrong about New York or precisely what is right. Perhaps the best that can be said about Mr. Silverstein's unconquerable confidence is that it seems to be genetic. He claims to be unbothered by downbeat forecasts or pessimistic headlines. And remains persuaded (at least publicly) that the lure of an apartment in New York -- even on the Far West Side and in the throes of a recession -- will always get a bite.
 Of course, he would be a fool to leave such things to chance: thus, the presence of the camera crew whose P.R. video was recently completed. There are, in fact, many ways to skin the promotional cat. Dara McQuillan, Mr. Silverstein's media adviser, had in mind some out-of-the-box ideas: letting Hollywood shoot a movie in the building, for example, or inviting in a reporter from The New York Times. 
 Still, there could be no one better suited to publicity than Mr. Silverstein himself, who was talking to the camera in a Silverstein Properties hard hat.
 ''I've been an observer and a player in this market for 50 years,'' he was saying, ''and there has never been a surplus of rental housing. 
 ''People are always moving here, always. They may not be today, but they'll be back tomorrow.''
 And, shortly after that, it was a wrap.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The penthouse in a large luxury rental project at 42nd Street and 11th Avenue that Larry A. Silverstein is building. Though it is a grim moment for real estate, he says, ''There is an insatiable need -- insatiable -- for rental housing in New York.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); FLOORING (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



479 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: A.I.G. Says Revamping Could Take 3 to 5 Years

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 Edward M. Liddy, the chairman of the American International Group, said on Wednesday that the company would probably need three to five years to carry out its restructuring plan and fully repay the taxpayer bailout money.
 A.I.G., once the nation's biggest insurance conglomerate, has received more than $170 billion from the Federal Reserve and the Treasury since it nearly collapsed in September. The Treasury currently owns almost 80 percent of A.I.G.'s voting shares, and Fed officials recruited Mr. Liddy to unwind its exposure to subprime mortgages and salvage its comparatively healthy insurance businesses. 
 Testifying before the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Mr. Liddy said the company has devised a long-range plan, named Project Destiny, to sell or spin off most of its insurance subsidiaries and other business units. It is already trying to sell its aircraft leasing business, International Lease Finance, and it recently struck a deal to sell its office building in Tokyo for $1 billion. 
 But he said that the plan would take years to carry out and cautioned that another plunge in the economy could derail it. He acknowledged that he was worried about the value of A.I.G.'s portfolio of commercial real estate, a sector where many analysts predict the losses are just beginning. And he said A.I.G. would not sell businesses at low prices simply to raise cash quickly.
 ''We must take the time and exercise the diligence to do this restructuring properly,'' he told lawmakers. ''Let me be clear: our plan is explicitly designed to avoid having to divest A.I.G. assets at fire-sale prices.'' 
 Prodded by lawmakers to be more specific, Mr. Liddy estimated the entire plan would take ''three to five years'' to complete. 
 Lawmakers also pressed Mr. Liddy about his ties to Goldman Sachs, where he served as a director before moving to A.I.G., and about A.I.G.'s plan to pay $165 million in retention bonuses to executives in its financial products unit. The unit virtually bankrupted the conglomerate through its sale of financial instruments tied to subprime mortgages.
 Democrats and Republicans pushed him to provide a detailed restructuring plan. Mr. Liddy initially balked, but then suggested that he would do so if the information was confined to a few select lawmakers. 
 For the first time since A.I.G.'s collapse last fall, lawmakers also had the chance to publicly question the three little-known government-chosen trustees who have been given the responsibility for actually voting the Treasury Department's A.I.G. shares.
 The trustees are not supposed to be involved in day-to-day management at A.I.G. or to become shadow directors. But they are paid $100,000 a year and have the power to vote 77.9 percent of A.I.G.'s shares in order to maximize their value to the Treasury. That gives them power to shape the company's board and, indirectly, its management and strategy.
 Lawmakers expressed bafflement at the arrangement, with some complaining that it merely added to the secrecy.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 14, 2009 Thursday

 CORRECTION:
 An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of the committee chairman and misidentified his home state. He is Representative Edolphus Towns, not Townes; he represents New York, not Maryland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); COMMON STOCK (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); LEASING INDUSTRY (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (70%); SUBPRIME LENDING (70%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (68%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (67%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); INTERNATIONAL LEASE FINANCE CORP (56%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC7359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING, NEC (56%)

PERSON: EDWARD M LIDDY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (56%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



480 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; IN THE HUNT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Investors Pay Business Plans Little Heed, Study Finds

BYLINE: By BRENT BOWERS

 BODY:
GO ahead and write that 50-page business plan about your fledgling venture if it helps you to focus. Just do not bother showing it to venture capitalists, because it will do nothing to improve your chances of getting financing.
 That is the surprising conclusion of a new study by researchers at the University of Maryland's business school. 
 Researchers found that venture capitalists, who screen hundreds or thousands of solicitations each year, pay little or no heed to the content of business plans. Instead, the study said, because they make decisions ''under conditions of high uncertainty,'' venture capitalists rely on instinct and their expertise in ferreting out information by other means to evaluate the prospects of a business.
 That means, the study said, that they pay little attention to the documentation from entrepreneurs about their academic credentials, work or start-up experience, previous success in raising equity capital, ability to form a top-notch management team or even how much money they want.
 ''In general, business plans don't matter,'' said Brent Goldfarb, an associate professor of management and entrepreneurship at the Robert H. Smith School of Business, who wrote the study with David A, Kirsch, also an associate professor at the school, and Azi Gera, a doctoral student. ''Nobody is going to read them.''
 That assertion flies in the face of the conventional wisdom that writing a business plan is one of the first and most essential tasks an entrepreneur should undertake, Mr. Goldfarb acknowledged. But, he says, the report's conclusions jibe with the feedback he gets from venture capitalists.
 Jeff Fagnan, general partner of Atlas Venture in Waltham, Mass., which provides seed money for young businesses, said he agreed with the study's main premise. ''I've never given funding to an entrepreneur who had a business plan with him when he walked into my office,'' Mr. Fagnan said. ''Never. Most of the information you find there, five-year financial forecasts and so on, is not relevant.''
 He says he looks for ''market validation,'' hard evidence that the entrepreneur has actually sold his product or at least lined up enthusiastic potential customers. Mr. Fagnan says that, rather than reading a report, he wants to hear the evidence in PowerPoint slides, white board presentations or ''somebody just talking.''
 But if he does not look at their business plans, how do entrepreneurs gain an audience with him? ''The No. 1 way is referrals'' by a respected figure in business or banking, Mr. Fagnan said. If he asked the people referred to him for a business plan, ''they would probably say they don't have one,'' he said. 
 Greg Herro, chief executive of LifeGem, a maker of specialty jewelry in Elk Grove Village, Ill., laughed when asked about the business plan he wrote to show to venture capitalists and other professional investors a few years ago.
 ''It was no use to us whatsoever,'' Mr. Herro said. ''Investors might read a business plan's executive summary, but they have no interest in the endless pages of nonsense that entrepreneurs like me put out. If you don't have a track record or actual sales, they are leery.''
 By contrast, because LifeGem, which he and three partners founded in 2001, has strong cash flow and sales that increased 15 percent last year to $4.5 million and are steady this year, he predicts he has a good chance at raising up to $2.5 million soon.
 Writing a business plan is not pointless -- far from it. Entrepreneurs say it enables them to think through the logistics, possibilities and pitfalls of their operations and to clarify their goals.
 ''A business plan can be helpful in identifying opportunities in a competitive landscape,'' Mr. Fagnan, the venture capitalist, said.
 More important, according to Stefan Zehle, co- founder of the British business Coleago Consulting and co-author of Economist Books' ''Guide to Business Planning,'' published by Bloomberg Press, a business plan can be a crucial warm-up exercise for getting through the venture capitalists' door.
 Venture capitalists and other investors ''will never start by reading a 50-page business plan and examine a full set of forecast financials -- they have too little time for this,'' Mr. Zehle wrote by e-mail. ''But they will read a one-page elevator pitch-style executive summary, and if it stimulates interest, go on to read a five-page executive summary.''
 Mr. Goldfarb of the University of Maryland's business school, agreed that if writing a plan helps entrepreneurs ''develop a 150-word elevator pitch, that would be a positive result,'' though he added that they should then practice the presentation ''to anybody who will listen and challenge you.''
 He urged entrepreneurs to keep any plan that they submit to professional investors to 15 pages, starting with four or five bullet points that explain their business.
 Mr. Herro of LifeGem recommended a somewhat different plan of action, saying ''you should put as much time as you possibly can in writing a comprehensive business plan for your own sake,'' then compress it into ''a very streamlined, need-based outline'' for prospective investors to scan.
 Skepticism about the usefulness of business plans has its incongruities. Mr. Fagnan of Atlas Venture confessed that he is a judge of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's annual business plan competition.
 And Mr. Goldfarb said his research report, which examined 1,063 requests for early first-round financing to a venture capital firm in the Northeast from 1999 to early 2002, created a ruckus at his school.
 ''We require our M.B.A.'s to do a business planning course, and our work got some press just before this requirement was due,'' he said. ''Some of the M.B.A.'s then questioned the assignment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''In general, business plans don't matter,'' Brent Goldfarb, center, said of his research with David A. Kirsch, left, and Azi Gera.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE RUARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BUSINESS PLANS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



481 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: For Explorer Scouts, Good Deeds Have Whole New Meaning

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: IMPERIAL, Calif. 

 BODY:
Ten minutes into arrant mayhem in this town near the Mexican border, and the gunman, a disgruntled Iraq war veteran, has already taken out two people, one slumped in his desk, the other covered in blood on the floor. 
 The responding officers -- eight teenage boys and girls, the youngest 14 -- face tripwire, a thin cloud of poisonous gas and loud shots -- BAM! BAM! -- fired from behind a flimsy wall. They move quickly, pellet guns drawn and masks affixed.
 ''United States Border Patrol! Put your hands up!'' screams one in a voice cracking with adolescent determination as the suspect is subdued.
 It is all quite a step up from the square knot. 
 The Explorers program, a coeducational affiliate of the Boy Scouts of America that began 60 years ago, is training thousands of young people in skills used to confront terrorism, illegal immigration and escalating border violence -- an intense ratcheting up of one of the group's longtime missions to prepare youths for more traditional jobs as police officers and firefighters. 
 ''This is about being a true-blooded American guy and girl,'' said A. J. Lowenthal, a sheriff's deputy here in Imperial County, whose life clock, he says, is set around the Explorers events he helps run. ''It fits right in with the honor and bravery of the Boy Scouts.'' 
 The training, which leaders say is not intended to be applied outside the simulated Explorer setting, can involve chasing down illegal border crossers as well as more dangerous situations that include facing down terrorists and taking out ''active shooters,'' like those who bring gunfire and death to college campuses. In a simulation here of a raid on a marijuana field, several Explorers were instructed on how to quiet an obstreperous lookout. 
 ''Put him on his face and put a knee in his back,'' a Border Patrol agent explained. ''I guarantee that he'll shut up.'' 
 One participant, Felix Arce, 16, said he liked ''the discipline of the program,'' which was something he said his life was lacking. ''I want to be a lawyer, and this teaches you about how crimes are committed,'' he said. 
 Cathy Noriego, also 16, said she was attracted by the guns. The group uses compressed-air guns -- known as airsoft guns, which fire tiny plastic pellets -- in the training exercises, and sometimes they shoot real guns on a closed range. 
 ''I like shooting them,'' Cathy said. ''I like the sound they make. It gets me excited.''
 If there are critics of the content or purpose of the law enforcement training, they have not made themselves known to the Explorers' national organization in Irving, Tex., or to the volunteers here on the ground, national officials and local leaders said. That said, the Explorers have faced problems over the years. There have been numerous cases over the last three decades in which police officers supervising Explorers have been charged, in civil and criminal cases, with sexually abusing them.
 Several years ago, two University of Nebraska criminal justice professors published a study that found at least a dozen cases of sexual abuse involving police officers over the last decade. Adult Explorer leaders are now required to take an online training program on sexual misconduct. 
 Many law enforcement officials, particularly those who work for the rapidly growing Border Patrol, part of the Homeland Security Department, have helped shape the program's focus and see it as preparing the Explorers as potential employees. The Explorer posts are attached to various agencies, including the Federal Bureau of Investigation and local police and fire departments, that sponsor them much the way churches sponsor Boy Scout troops.
 ''Our end goal is to create more agents,'' said April McKee, a senior Border Patrol agent and mentor at the session here.
 Membership in the Explorers has been overseen since 1998 by an affiliate of the Boy Scouts called Learning for Life, which offers 12 career-related programs, including those focused on aviation, medicine and the sciences. 
 But the more than 2,000 law enforcement posts across the country are the Explorers' most popular, accounting for 35,000 of the group's 145,000 members, said John Anthony, national director of Learning for Life. Since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, many posts have taken on an emphasis of fighting terrorism and other less conventional threats.
 ''Before it was more about the basics,'' said Johnny Longoria, a Border Patrol agent here. ''But now our emphasis is on terrorism, illegal entry, drugs and human smuggling.''
 The law enforcement posts are restricted to those ages 14 to 21 who have a C average, but there seems to be some wiggle room. ''I will take them at 13 and a half,'' Deputy Lowenthal said. ''I would rather take a kid than possibly lose a kid.''
 The law enforcement programs are highly decentralized, and each post is run in a way that reflects the culture of its sponsoring agency and region. Most have weekly meetings in which the children work on their law-enforcement techniques in preparing for competitions. Weekends are often spent on service projects. 
 Just as there are soccer moms, there are Explorers dads, who attend the competitions, man the hamburger grill and donate their land for the simulated marijuana field raids. In their training, the would-be law-enforcement officers do not mess around, as revealed at a recent competition on the state fairgrounds here, where a Ferris wheel sat next to the police cars set up for a felony investigation. 
 Their hearts pounding, Explorers moved down alleys where there were hidden paper targets of people pointing guns, and made split-second decisions about when to shoot. In rescuing hostages from a bus taken over by terrorists, a baby-faced young girl screamed, ''Separate your feet!'' as she moved to handcuff her suspect. 
 In a competition in Arizona that he did not oversee, Deputy Lowenthal said, one role-player wore traditional Arab dress. ''If we're looking at 9/11 and what a Middle Eastern terrorist would be like,'' he said, ''then maybe your role-player would look like that. I don't know, would you call that politically incorrect?''
 Authenticity seems to be the goal. Imperial County, in Southern California, is the poorest in the state, and the local economy revolves largely around the criminal justice system. In addition to the sheriff and local police departments, there are two state prisons and a large Border Patrol and immigration enforcement presence. 
 ''My uncle was a sheriff's deputy,'' said Alexandra Sanchez, 17, who joined the Explorers when she was 13. Alexandra's police uniform was baggy on her lithe frame, her airsoft gun slung carefully to the side. She wants to be a coroner. 
 ''I like the idea of having law enforcement work with medicine,'' she said. ''This is a great program for me.'' 
 And then she was off to another bus hijacking.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 18, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about Explorer scouts who train to confront terrorism and illegal immigration, and a picture caption with the continuation of the article, misspelled the surname of a scout who said she was attracted to the program because of the use of pellet guns. She is Cathy Noriega, not Noriego.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Explorers preparing to storm a ''hijacked'' bus in Imperial, Calif., part of a training exercise run by Border Patrol agents. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD KRAININ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
 Top, Explorers ready to enter a building taken by terrorists, in an exercise. Left, a man turns out to be a wounded hostage. Above, Cathy Noriego said she liked to use guns. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD KRAININ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A24) MAP: Imperial County relies on the local criminal justice system. (pg.A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); SHERIFFS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); FIREARMS (75%); IMMIGRATION (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); CANNABIS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (83%); BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



482 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; CURRENTS ONLINE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: Psst, There's a Sample Sale Today (and Every Other Day)

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
Susan Feldman, a former fashion sales executive, moved from Manhattan to Los Angeles a few years ago, and into the first house she had lived in since she left home for college. Still house proud, and noting the frugal climate, Ms. Feldman, above right, recently started a home furnishings business with Alison Gelb Pincus, left, whose background is in digital media, based on a fashion model: the online sample sale. It was intuitive that such a model would be embraced by home furnishings companies, she said, which have been hit hard by the recession. 
 One Kings Lane, their new Web site, sells housewares and furnishings at discounts of up to 70 percent; there is a new sale every weekday, and each one lasts three days. Like the merchandise at sample sales, items may be discontinued products or overstock. Last week, there were outrageous and frivolous objects (an Adrienne Landau mink throw, $899, marked down from $1,890; handmade napkin rings with velvet forget-me-nots, $29 for a set of four, down from $80). Earlier sales have included John Robshaw linens and Dwell Studio furniture. Today, there are Vera Wang for Wedgwood glasses ($35 for four, down from $134) and Serena & Lily bedding (Fiona king duvet covers for $139, down from $349). Information: onekingslane.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (90%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (78%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); WEB SITES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



483 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARCHITECTURE REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: ... In a Building Embracing Chicago

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOF

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
America has been suffering from Renzo Piano fatigue.
 For years Mr. Piano seemed to be snapping up all the best commissions: the renovation of the Morgan Library & Museum in Manhattan, a science center in San Francisco and museum additions in Los Angeles, Boston, Chicago and Fort Worth. (He even designed The New York Times Building.)
 Many of his peers gripe that this is because of the subdued nature of his designs -- sophisticated but not too threatening or unfamiliar -- which seem tailored to ease the insecurities of museum boards. Some envy his elegance, which makes him seem equally at home in corporate boardrooms and lofty cultural circles. 
 It's hard to know how these qualities will play out amid the gloom and doom of the new economy. In some ways Mr. Piano's refined, risk-averse architecture may be more appealing than ever. He is not out to start a revolution. His designs are about tranquillity, not conflict. The serenity of his best buildings can almost make you believe that we live in a civilized world.
 The new $294 million Modern Wing of the Art Institute of Chicago, which opens on Saturday, is the closest Mr. Piano has come in at least a decade to achieving this near-classical ideal. Its delicate structural frame is a sparkling counterpart to the museum's 1893 Beaux Arts building. The light-filled galleries show the Art Institute's marvelous collections of postwar and contemporary art in their full glory, including many works that have been buried in storage for decades. Most of all, the addition manages to weave the various strands of Chicago's rich architectural history into a cohesive vision, one that is made more beautiful by its remarkable fragility.
 The 264,000-square-foot wing is the largest expansion in the museum's 130-year history. The addition stands behind the original building, across a set of commuter railroad tracks. The two structures are joined by a small gallery building from 1916 that bridges the tracks. Millennium Park, its far end punctuated by the swirling steel forms of Frank Gehry's band shell, extends to the north.
 Seen from the park Mr. Piano's structure immediately brings to mind the work of Mies van der Rohe, a pillar of modern architecture who moved to Chicago from Germany in the 1930s. The taut forms and refined details, the elevation of an industrial aesthetic to an art form -- all are hallmarks of Mies's work. Mr. Piano's towering glass-and-steel facade, with its floating roof and excruciatingly slender columns, even evokes a lighter, more ethereal incarnation of Mies's 1968 Neue Nationalgalerie in Berlin, a landmark of 20th-century design.
 Mr. Piano carefully knits these forms into the surrounding fabric. The addition's main entry hall is parallel to the tracks, so that their grittiness becomes part of the overall composition. A series of heavy walls that frame the entry are made of limestone to match the original building. A long, slender bridge, one of the design's most whimsical features, connects the addition to the park across the street.
 The play between Modern and classical themes continues inside. The entry hall, a long towering space enclosed beneath a glittering glass roof, could be a contemporary version of a cathedral, designed for the worship of art. Its elongated form is used to draw you into the building. From there people turn and look out at a grassy outdoor court before climbing a staircase to the main galleries. The staircase, suspended on slender rods, was inspired by Mies's design for the Arts Club of Chicago.
 Some will feel that the journey from the front door to the art is too drawn out, but it gives you the impression of having ascended to ''a sacred space.'' Occasionally Mr. Piano's galleries can be too precious: the level of refinement gives them a cool, almost sterile feel. But these rank among his best. The rooms are beautifully proportioned. A thin steel border frames the plaster walls, giving them a clean industrial look.
 Mr. Piano also seems to have created the right amount of intimacy between art and viewer, without completely shutting out the world. Floor-to-ceiling windows overlook the park and courtyard from some galleries. The windows are covered with white screens, lending the views a soft, ghostlike quality. This effect is reinforced by the layering of glass, which shuts out street noise and gives the sight of people walking below a particularly eerie, cinematic quality.
 But it is the light that most people will notice. Mr. Piano has been slowly refining his lighting systems since the mid-1980s, when he completed his design for the Menil Collection building in Houston. Over the years these efforts have taken on a quasi-religious aura, with curators and museum directors analyzing the light in his galleries like priests dissecting holy texts.
 At the Art Institute Mr. Piano has stripped the system down to its essence. The glass roof of the top-floor galleries is supported on delicate steel trusses. Rows of white blades rest on top of the trusses to filter out strong southern light; thin fabric panels soften the view from below.
 The idea is to make you aware of the shifts in daylight -- over the course of a visit, from one season to another -- without distracting you from the artwork, and the effect is magical. On a clear afternoon you can catch faint glimpses through the structural frame of clouds drifting by overhead. But most of the time the art takes center stage, everything else fading quietly into the background.
 It is this obsessive refinement that raises Mr. Piano's best architecture to the level of art. In an age with few idealists, he exudes a touching faith in the value of slow, incremental progress. He has never fully abandoned the belief that machines can elevate as well as destroy.
 The beauty of his designs stems from his stubborn insistence that the placement of a column or a window, when done with enough patience and care, brings us a step closer to a more enlightened society.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Modern Wing of the Art Institute of Chicago: This addition to the museum, top, featuring an exhibition of Cy Twombly's recent works, above, opens on Saturday in Chicago.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE LITVIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The new $294 million addition to the Art Institute of Chicago: above, the white blades of the roof
left, a view facing southeast
 and bottom left, a view with Millennium Park in the right foreground.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE LITVIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); LIBRARIES (78%)

ORGANIZATION: ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (76%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



484 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Enthralling Playoffs In Era of Hard Knocks

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON. 
E-mail: hjaraton@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It only seems that those old N.B.A. colleagues, Gary Bettman and David Stern, are lobbing promotional grenades at each other across the sports commissioners landscape, but not really.
 One night last month, Bettman of the N.H.L. sent two stunning seventh games of first-round playoff series involving teams from the New York metropolitan area into the theater. Stern, his pro basketball counterpart, responded with another in a string of overtime classics.
 Wednesday night was a bold hockey headline -- Pittsburgh over Washington, Crosby over Ovechkin in Game 7 of the sport's reality television hit, Imported American Idol. Thursday night, it's back to N.B.A. Survivor, or watching the defending champion Celtics cling bravely to life without Kevin Garnett. 
 ''We're not focused on what they're doing and I don't think they're focused on us,'' Bettman said. ''What it's really about is if you're a sports fan, it's a great time.''
 But is this captivating spring also the prelude to the harsh reality of fall, the postseason electricity before the budget-crunching storm?
 Are Stern's and Bettman's leagues -- largely insulated from the effects of the economy based on tickets sold before to the meltdown -- on a collision course with the Yankees' fans-inspired Premium Ticket Pushback?
 ''In playoff ticket sales, made in this economy, we're playing to over 100 percent capacity,'' Bettman said Wednesday in a telephone interview.
 And from Stern a day earlier, ''We've had about 60 playoff games and we've had three nonsellouts, all in Philadelphia, same as last year.''
 Ah, but these are the playoffs, when the stressed paying customer can count on a bang for his marked-up buck. As you read this, N.B.A. and N.H.L. franchises are soliciting high-end season-ticket holders with multitudinous pitches -- how do you prefer your fries cut? Your elbow ushered? Your seat padded? -- and praying that there are enough of them left with pockets still deep enough to write a check for Something Outrageous times 41.
 Remember, in the formation of those posh lower-bowl neighborhoods financed in large part by corporate largess, the Yankees are doing nothing the N.B.A. and to a lesser extent the N.H.L. weren't practicing for years. But the new reality could be even worse than a dramatically reduced fan base able to afford to splurge on sports, according to Marc Ganis, who runs a Chicago-based sports marketing firm. 
 With some, at least, certainly not all, it may also be a question of taste.
 ''The era of being ostentatious, showing off by buying the best, those days are for the most part in our rear-view mirror,'' Ganis said. 
 The story will always differ from market to market (see Fenway Park, which would sell out for a Red Sox sneezing contest). To Ganis, the great playoff series we are watching this spring will probably have a positive impact in those cities, but there are as many or more places where a seventh game between heaven and earth would offer no escape from the perfect financial storm.
 Take the affluent suburbs of Detroit, including Grosse Pointe, Mich., now feeling serious auto industry fallout, according to a recent Times article. ''No matter how well the Pistons are managed, how hard they work on new marketing schemes, there is no way to avoid how hard the auto industry has been hit,'' Ganis said.
 Stern acknowledged that his franchises are working harder to avoid the new Yankee Stadium syndrome -- cameras unable to follow the action without including empty courtside seats.
 ''We don't want that to happen,'' Stern said. ''That's not going to happen.''
 Thus the selling season has been expanded, he said (something I already knew because a close friend told me the Knicks began calling her to renew almost before she got to her car after the last game of the season). 
 Stern also taught me a new marketing expression -- F.S.E., or Full Season Equivalent. Which simply means if Spike Lee decides he can't afford $1,900 a ticket for 41 games, the Knicks might let him buy half, and sell the other games to another conserving celebrity. But Ganis pointed out a rapidly developing problem -- the once-thriving market allowing a premium season-holder to sell any number of games to pay his way has shriveled, too.
 For his part, Bettman reported a 70 percent season-ticket renewal rate for next season. ''And it's only May,'' he said, adding that the N.H.L. has had four years' practice of product building during extraordinary circumstances after the league shutdown of 2004-5.
 I happen to like both commissioners -- bright and feisty and generally accessible. But the bottom line is that if this is what Stern called a possible ''iconic time, where people say enough is enough,'' then there will be war in all sports at the bargaining table, the players will lose and the $12 million-a-year star may soon be earning a quarter less.
 Not exactly chump change. And the playoffs will still be rich in star-making and passion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (89%); TICKET SALES (86%); SPORTS FANS (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); SPORTS MARKETING (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON CELTICS (56%); NEW YORK YANKEES (54%)

PERSON: KEVIN GARNETT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



485 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: As Aquifers Fall, Calls to Regulate the Use of Groundwater Rise

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: TULARE, Calif. 

 BODY:
For the third year in a row, Mark Watte plans to rely on the aquifer beneath his family farm for three-quarters of the water he needs to keep his cotton, corn and alfalfa growing, his young pistachio trees healthy and his 900 dairy cows cool. 
 That is 50 percent more than he used to take, because the water that once flowed to the farm from snow in the Sierra Nevada has been reduced by a long dry spell and diversions to benefit endangered fish.
 Since 2006 the surface of the aquifer, in the Kaweah subbasin of the San Joaquin basin, has dropped 50 feet as farmers pumped deeper, Mr. Watte says. Some of his pumps no longer reach far enough to bring any water to the surface.
 If he lived in almost any other state in the arid Southwest, Mr. Watte could be required to report his withdrawals of groundwater or even reduce them. But to California's farmers and developers, that is anathema. ''I don't want the government to come in and dictate to us, 'This is all the water you can use on your own land,' '' said Mr. Watte, 57. ''We would resist that to our dying day.'' 
 Although California has been a pathbreaker in some environmental arenas, like embracing renewable energy and recycling, groundwater rights remain sacrosanct. But the state government is facing growing pressure to embrace regulation. 
 Recent scientific studies indicate that in the long term, climate change is diminishing the potential for the Sierra snowpack to generate enough runoff. Aquifers are thus a crucial insurance policy for water users. 
 Critics argue that refusing to monitor and regulate groundwater could prove catastrophic to the state's real estate sector and its $36 billion agricultural economy.
 ''We really have reached the limit of surface water in California,'' said Tony Rossman, a San Francisco lawyer specializing in water rights.
 ''The answer so far has been to drill deeper,'' he said. ''This can't continue.''
 The opening volley in the current campaign to change the system was fired last fall by Catherine Freeman of the state Legislative Analyst's Office, a nonpartisan advisory agency. In a report, she recommended that the Legislature regulate groundwater pumping statewide.
 Then Fran Pavley, a Democratic state senator, proposed a bill requiring that the state measure groundwater usage -- a proposal that has been made on and off for half a century. 
 Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, vetoed similar legislation in 2005, 2006 and 2007, saying that a state-run system would be too expensive and cumbersome.
 But even Mr. Schwarzenegger is heeding the growing drumbeat on groundwater. Issuing an emergency drought declaration in February, he asked local governments and water districts for the first time to supply the state with data on groundwater supplies. 
 Compliance so far has been spotty, said Mark Cowin, deputy director of the state's Department of Water Resources. ''In a lot of cases,'' Mr. Cowin said, ''it's simply a matter of the information not existing.''
 On the grass-roots level, resistance to monitoring is based not just in a property-rights credo but also in a belief that the state can ride out any dry spell. 
 Older Californians are quick to recall more severe droughts. Heavy groundwater pumping in the 1940s, '50s and '60s caused large overdrafts, meaning the groundwater pumped out exceeded the natural recharge of water percolating down from the surface. Some water tables dropped 400 feet; in some areas the ground itself sank as much as 50 feet. 
 Beginning in midcentury, the state enjoyed a respite with completion of the Central Valley Project, a large hydroengineering effort to redistribute surface water around the San Joaquin Valley. Aquifers were gradually recharged, and today, California accounts for at least 20 percent of the nation's groundwater use, down from 50 percent in the 1950s, according to the Water Education Foundation, a nonprofit group that works on water resource issues.
 But this year, the Westlands water district -- the state's largest, in the San Joaquin Valley -- got a taste of what the future may hold when its allocation of surface water from the Central Valley Project was cut by about 90 percent. As a result, area farmers expect to pump two and a half times the usual amount of groundwater this year. 
 This has led Tom Birmingham, the water district's general manager, to a subtle shift in his thinking. ''Westlands would be opposed to the control of groundwater by a state agency,'' Mr. Birmingham said. ''However, that doesn't mean that collecting information is necessarily a bad thing.''
 Don Mills, general manager of the neighboring Kings County district, sees only two solutions: recharging aquifers by creating asphalt- and agriculture-free zones where water can be pooled to percolate down to the aquifer, or pumping less.
 Regulating demand, Mr. Mills said, ''is the tough part.'' Some farmers have been phasing out row crops and vegetables in favor of fruit trees, for example; leaving an orchard dry for a year is not an option.
 ''After one year of no irrigation, it's firewood, not peach trees,'' Mr. Mills said.
 Developers have also benefited from groundwater policies as California's population grew annually by 500,000 in recent years, reaching 38 million. Yet a few local governments are starting to rein in groundwater use. 
 Visalia, a city of 123,000 a dozen miles north of Tulare, is one of the fastest-growing in California. Under a 2005 ordinance, all housing projects must either cede their surface water rights to the city or pay a fee that is used to set land aside for recharging the aquifer or related activities. 
 ''Unless you can provide water, you can't subdivide,'' said Bob Link, the city's vice mayor. But aggressive measures like this are the exception.
 Landowners and farmers like Mr. Watte say it should be up to them to manage the aquifers.
 ''When government gets involved in control and oversight, it's fraught,'' Mr. Watte said.
 Ms. Pavley, the state senator who proposed the water monitoring bill, predicted a ''very tough fight'' and said, ''Dealing with climate change is easy compared to this.''
 Desalination Plant Is Approved
 SAN DIEGO (AP) -- The water board here gave final approval for construction of the largest water desalination plant in the Western Hemisphere. 
 The $320 million project proposed by Poseidon Resources could be operational by 2012 in Carlsbad and produce 50 million gallons of drinking water a day, or 10 percent of the supply for San Diego County. The plant will take in 100 million gallons of sea water a day. The water would then be filtered. Half of it would be used by consumers, with the rest returned to the ocean. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 25, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on May 14 with an article about potential depletion of groundwater supplies in California misstated the extent to which the land shown had sunk as a result of deep pumping from 1925 to 1977. It was about 29 feet, not 50. The article also misspelled the surname of a lawyer who specializes in water rights. He is Tony Rossmann, not Rossman.
A picture caption on May 14 with an article about potential depletion of groundwater supplies in California misstated the extent to which the land shown had sunk as a result of deep pumping from 1925 to 1977. It was about 29 feet, not 50. The article also misspelled the surname of a lawyer who specializes in water rights. He is Tony Rossmann, not Rossman.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Despite the drought, Mark Watte, 57, a farmer in Tulare, Calif., does not want the government telling him how much water he can use on his land. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY KAZANJIAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Signs show approximate land levels over the years. Groundwater pumping has caused some areas to sink 50 feet. (PHOTOGRAPH BY U.S.G.S.) GRAPHICS: PUMPING DEEPER AND DEEPER: A three-year drought has led Califronia farmers to draw heavily on groundwater supplies. The state does not regulate such use. (Source: California Department of Water Resources) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (90%); FAMILY FARMS (90%); WATER RIGHTS (89%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); DROUGHT (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); HAY FARMING (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); AGRICULTURE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (72%); CLIMATE CHANGE (70%); INSURANCE POLICIES (70%); CLIMATOLOGY (69%); PROPERTY LAW (69%); VETO (69%); LEGISLATION (64%); DISASTER RELIEF (60%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (56%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



486 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2766 words

HEADLINE: Caught in The Safety Net

BYLINE: By JOYCE WADLER; Julie Scelfo contributed reporting.

 BODY:
CHRIS LOMBARDI, a 47-year-old writer and journalist, has a ready answer when people ask why she and her partner, Rachel Rawlings, 41, have been living for seven months in a spare bedroom in the home of her partner's parents:
 ''I shrug and say, 'We're like the couple in the freecreditreport.com commercial, sorta,' '' Ms. Lombardi says.
 In that ''sorta,'' lies the tale: A career change from university instructor to journalism three years ago first put Ms. Lombardi in debt, then landed her in a job market of low pay and diminishing opportunities, right alongside her partner, a technical writer. By late 2008, the couple could no longer afford the $1,100 rent on their one-bedroom in upper Manhattan.
 Moving in with Ms. Rawlings's parents in Philadelphia, where Ms. Lombardi had gotten a job at a new online magazine, seemed like a good idea. Ms. Lombardi's job would bring in about $2,600 a month after taxes, and living with the parents would enable the couple to get on their feet. 
 And over all, both women say, it works. Ms. Lombardi, who contributes $300 a month for household expenses, says often that she loves her partners' parents, George Rawlings, a retired firefighter, and his wife, Kathy, a retired office manager. They are generous people, Ms. Lombardi says; Mr. Rawlings even gave her his office to finish writing a book. 
 Still, there have been conflicts. Ms. Lombardi is a lifelong slob who describes her living style as ''frat boy.'' The room she and her partner share is littered with research papers and Diet Coke cans. The Rawlingses, meanwhile, are meticulous housekeepers. Last November, as Ms. Lombardi was closing in on her book deadline and paying no attention to cleaning the bedroom, Mr. Rawlings, using extremely strong language, erupted.
 ''It was a very bitter conversation,'' Ms. Lombardi says. ''It was the only part of the house that I considered my space. I closed the door and didn't speak to him for 24 hours. Then I said to myself: 'This is not your house. You have to go to them and say, you know this is not your house. How you feel is irrelevant.' I cried like hell.'' 
 The old saying about houseguests and fish is that after three days, both begin to stink. It's a cold expression that would seem to have little to do with the bonds of family. Nonetheless, when hard economic times force adults to move back into their parents' homes for an open-ended stay, the move is rarely without tensions. There are old expectations and patterns of behavior, new partners and economic realities, and, typically, an endless series of conflicting individual needs.
 And such intergenerational households are on the rise. According to the Census Bureau, as of last year there were 5.1 million Americans age 25 to 34 living in the home of a parent -- a dramatic increase over the 4.3 million who were doing so in 2004, and a figure that does not take into account the economic displacements of the last several months. More startlingly, when AARP, the lobby for older Americans, surveyed 1,000 adults this spring it found that 11 percent of people between ages 35 and 44 -- traditionally the high-earning years in which adults come into their own professionally -- were living with parents or in-laws. 
 ''The recession is having on impact on people of all ages, and the effects are starting to be felt at home,'' said Jim Toedtman, the editor of the AARP Bulletin. ''As Americans face tougher economic conditions, we'll likely see more of this.'' 
 Those findings were echoed in a survey of some 4,800 grandparents by grandparents.com, a resource site, early this year, in which 12.5 percent reported that they lived in the same home as their grandchildren, and of those, 53 percent said that the adult children and grandchildren who lived with them could not afford to live independently. 
 Dr. Georgia Witkin, a senior editor at grandparents.com who has written several books on family and stress management, insists that for the majority of grandparents, the situation is a happy one. 
 ''The benefits outweigh the inconveniences,'' Dr. Witkin says. ''They use words like 'inconvenience,' which is not, 'this is terrible.' ''
 But an adult child who turns to a parent for assistance may see it differently. Feelings of failure, depression and anxiety are common in such situations, says Donna Wilburn, a family therapist who is president of the Nevada Association for Marriage and Family Therapy. She counsels adult children and their parents to avoid seeing a move into the parents' home as a move back in time. 
 ''I suggest they see it as more of a roommate relationship,'' Ms. Wilburn says. ''If they go into the home and feel like a child again, that's not going to help. I also suggest that the parent abstain from parenting. A client might come in and say his mother was up at night when he came in and angry because he was so late, and he was 35.''
 Ms. Wilburn, who is practicing in one of the hardest-hit areas in the nation, says the situation may also be difficult for retirement-age parents. They may be happy to have family close at hand, but in some cases they have to cut back on pleasures like dining out and vacations, or even return to work to support their extended families.
 ''The parents get resentful, they get angry, they just want to be retired and it's just very difficult,'' Ms. Wilburn says. 
 And while it may be O.K. for an unemployed adult to admit to depression, admitting you're sick of supporting your unemployed children is apparently still taboo. Asked if one can simply boot out an adult child, even the therapist is evasive.
 ''I think what I would try to do in that situation is make sure they'' -- the older parents -- ''are taking care of themselves, and making sure they are not enabling by over-helping or supporting the child,'' Ms. Wilburn says. ''If the child is able to work at anything at all, they should. Do not enable their behavior by buying their cigarettes or giving them money to go out and party.''
 Quick, the Drywall!
 Experts in the field, including at AARP, agree on the importance of discussing expectations -- about expenses, chores, the division of living space -- before an adult child moves in. John L. Graham and Sharon Graham Niederhaus, the authors of ''Together Again: A Creative Guide to Successful Multigenerational Living'' (M. Evans and Company, 2007), take it a step further. For those who can afford it, the key to intergenerational living, they say, is a separate kitchen and separate entrances. Their book includes renovation floor plans.
 Such an arrangement certainly helped Nan Mooney, a 39-year-old freelance writer who joined her parents in their three-bedroom town house in Seattle a year and a half ago, after a job in San Francisco fell through. Ms. Mooney, who had decided to become a single parent, was five months pregnant when she moved in. She had her own bedroom, living room, bathroom and entrance on the ground level, and got a microwave and small refrigerator after her son, Leo, offered her 79-year-old father, Robert, a refresher course on baby table manners.
 Other problems have been tougher to resolve.
 ''When you're an adult and you've been living out of the house for 15 years, it's a big adjustment,'' Ms. Mooney says. ''I was using a midwife and my mother was apoplectic. There were a lot of arguments. It was hard for them not to treat me like I was 13 and hard for me not to react like I was 13.''
 Many who return to their parents' homes, of course, do not have the luxury of a separate floor or apartment, or the extra funds to create even a makeshift kitchen. They're also hoping their living situation will be temporary. 
 That seems to have been the case with Karin, a 24-year-old newlywed who in eight months has gone from liking her father-in-law to having more complicated feelings, and who did not want her last name published so that matters do not become worse. Karin and her husband, who both have graduate degrees, had been living on the West Coast, where he was working and she was finishing her studies, when she became pregnant. 
 They returned to the Midwest to be near their families, and the couple's move to his parents' home in August was meant to last only a month or two, until they found jobs. The recession found them first. Despite months of searching, the best Karin's husband could do was his old high school summer job, delivering appliances for $13 an hour. They share their bedroom with the baby. While Karin is extremely grateful to her in-laws, who frequently watch her son and who have refused to allow the couple to contribute to household expenses, she very much wishes that she had talked to them about the ground rules before moving in.
 ''Nothing can be out of place, nothing new can be put anywhere, the baby's car seat can't be left downstairs,'' Karin says. Her father-in-law ''got really angry one time and told my mother-in-law all of these things that made him angry, that we had never been told. He decided that we didn't respect him because we didn't vacuum enough.''
 Quick, a Brick Wall!
 Dr. Witkin, of grandparents.com, likes to look at the upside, and sees economic hard times as an opportunity for families to come together and create happy memories. But she stresses that people have to be as accepting of their families as of their friends. If Grandpa told boring stories before the family moved back in, he's not going to suddenly morph into Jon Stewart. And if there were destructive family patterns in the past, they won't magically change, either.
 Alison Burgess, a 50-year-old nurse in Shreveport, La., can attest to that. Twelve years ago, as a divorced schoolteacher with a child, she decided to go to nursing school. That meant moving home, even though her childhood there had been less than idyllic: Her father, an oil executive, had been aggressive, even violent, she says; holidays were occasions for battles of the plate-smashing sort. But Ms. Burgess believed that things had mellowed since then. 
 Soon after she and her daughter, Cece, then 8, moved into her parents' three-bedroom home, there were problems. Her mother, as Ms. Burgess tells it, reprimanded Cece continuously. And one evening, she says, her father shouted at Cece after she made a mild comment about a television show. 
 ''He turned purple in the face and started to rail at her and tried to stand up and act physically threatening to her,'' Ms. Burgess says. ''I yelled him down, I threatened him. I said, 'Here's the thing: You have to sleep and I am telling you, you will never threaten my daughter again, because the next time you sleep, you might never wake up.' ''
 Ms. Burgess's father has since died. Her mother, Amy Burgess, in her mid 70's, says she does not recall such an incident. She compares her daughter's moods and behavior to those of a teenager, and speaks of hyper-sensitivity. 
 ''The first night they were there, my granddaughter went into a hissy fit,'' she says. ''I said, 'Don't be such a twit,' and my daughter just fell apart and was screaming, 'Don't call people names.' It was as though I had vilified the child. I count twit as being low on the list of terrible names.''
 Asked what her memories are of the period, Amy Burgess starts to cry. 
 ''I'm trying to think of a way to express it. It was all so personal and heartbreaking, creating a distance where there had not been distance before. It has not been healed yet.''
 But What About Me?
 There is yet another sensitive area in family relations when adults move in with their parents: the relationships with the adult children who are not receiving this level of support, and who may start to think that their parents are giving too much. 
 Amber Chaput, 27, a certified pharmacy technician, and her husband, Nick Chaput, 29, a former landscaper who is now unemployed, have lived with her parents, Kare and Fernando Ybarra, in their large Victorian home in the small town of Milan, Ohio, for three and a half years. The Chaputs moved there from New Hampshire, both to reduce their cost of living and to be closer to Ms. Chaput's parents, she says. When they moved in, they brought one young daughter; now they have four children, including twins, under the age of 5. 
 The Ybarras have been generous with space and money. When the landscape business was hit hard by the downturn, Mr. Ybarra helped his son-in-law with the down payment for a two-month truck driving course. But six months after Mr. Chaput completed that training and started driving 18-wheelers, making a wage that would have brought in between $40,000 and $50,000 a year, he was laid off, leaving the couple with only Ms. Chaput's $32,000 salary. Ms. Ybarra, 54, says she likes having her youngest daughter's family in the house, and she and her husband, who is 59 and earns between $80,000 to $100,000 as a translator, can certainly help with money. But Ms. Chaput's older brother and sister, who have also given her money, have doubts about the setup. 
 ''I don't think they budget well, and when they get into trouble Mom and Dad are always there to bail them out,'' says Ms. Chaput's brother, Aaron Ybarra, an agent for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosivesin Washington. ''It's a difficult situation for my parents to be in.''
 Ms. Chaput's sister, Olivia Saflund, a physical therapist for the Army in Hawaii, says she has called her father on a few occasions, ''very upset, telling him to stop enabling the situation.''
 ''There's a certain level of frustration for my brother and I,'' Ms. Saflund says. ''We think, 'What about us? We're your children, too.' I get frustrated, upset and a little angry because I need my mom and dad, too.'' 
 And Don't Stay Out Too Late
 Rhoby Schempp, who is 35, has always been a woman of independent spirit. Over the years, she has been a bicycle messenger, a go-go dancer and an artist, and worked herself up over four years from a cashier to a department manager at a health food store in Burlington, Vt. Her salary was only $25,000 a year, but her portion of rent on the beautiful two-bedroom apartment she shared with a roommate was just $400. 
 Then Ms. Schempp lost her job, beginning a phase of her life that she has chronicled for the last year at theartofoutofwork.blogspot.com. With car payments and insurance, she had been living paycheck to paycheck, and it was clear that she could not stay where she was on a weekly unemployment check of $305. Her stepmother and father invited her to share their home in Norwalk, Conn., and she moved into the guest bedroom. 
 She was surprised, when she asked about household rules, that her father and stepmother wanted her to tell them her plans whenever she went out at night -- where she was going, when she'd be back. But she complied. 
 ''I'm a very, very good houseguest,'' Ms. Schempp says. ''If dishes need to be done, I do that. If trash needs to be taken out, I do that. There's a little bed-and-breakfast tray, with a little flower and a little mug and a little plate on the bed. When I wake up in the morning, I make the bed and put that tray back on the bed exactly where it was the day I got there. My sister said: 'Why are you still putting the tray on the bed? This is supposed to be your room.' In my mind, it is not my room.''
 Still, she says, her father and stepmother have been tremendously supportive. And after months of fruitless job hunting, she is feeling excited and optimistic. Shehas taught herself Web programming skills and has started a business, wetweetyou.com, intended to help businesses with ''social media brand identity and maintenance.'' 
 She acknowledges, though, that striving to be the perfect houseguest in her family's home has taken a toll. On a recent hour-and-a-half trip to her mother's house in Winsted, Conn., Ms. Schempp started crying so hard she had to pull over. 
 What might have caused that?
 ''I had been doing some housesitting and reconnecting with old friends that had husbands and children and homes, and seeing them with their families, I think that triggered something,'' Ms. Schempp says.
 ''I went on as long as I could with this positive attitude, then when you go back to the house it just kind of hits you,'' she says. ''I've had my own place since I was 18, I've had beautiful lofts in many beautiful places, Hawaii, Boston, San Francisco. I don't think pride is the word, but you just don't have control of your own environment. You're a guest. I didn't want to be a guest, I wanted to be in my own place.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BOUNDARIES Nan Mooney, 39, and her son, Leo, live with her parents, Robert and Jacquelinn Mooney, but have a makeshift kitchen, above. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
HELPING HANDS: Amber Chaput, 27, makes pancakes with her parents, Kare and Fernando Ybarra, and two of her children, Haley, 3, and Sophia, 6 months, in the Ybarras' kitchen. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID AHNTHOLZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 TEMPORARY: After losing her job, Rhoby Schempp, 35, moved into her father's and stepmother's guest room. She keeps it especially clean because, she said, ''it is not my room.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D6) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAMES STEINBERG) (pg.D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); EMPLOYMENT (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



487 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Asian and Hispanic Minorities Growing, but More Slowly

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
The population growth rate among Asian- and Hispanic-Americans has decreased since the beginning of the decade, according to new census estimates, and the recession appears to have slowed their dispersal from traditional magnet metropolitan areas to other parts of the country.
 Still, births outnumber deaths among Hispanic people by 10 to 1, and the nation's racial and ethnic minorities are poised to become a majority among children under 5. They inched up from 46.7 percent of those children on July 1, 2007, to 47.3 percent last July 1. 
 The latest census estimates found that the minority population -- other than non-Hispanic whites -- grew by 2.3 percent from July 1, 2007, to July 1, 2008, compared with 2.4 percent the year before. 
 Ethnic and racial minorities (mostly blacks, Hispanic and Asian people) now account for 34 percent of the nation's population. 
 The Hispanic population grew by 3.2 percent and Asians by 2.7 percent, a slight decrease from the year before. But those figures were down sharply from the beginning of the decade, when the Hispanic population grew by 4 percent and Asians by 3.7 percent, according to an analysis by the Population Reference Bureau, a private research group.
 The number of blacks grew by 1.3 percent, and non-Hispanic whites by 0.2 percent.
 The biggest growth was among the 5.2 million people who identified themselves as belonging to two or more races -- an increase of 3.4 percent from the year before. 
 With the pace of immigration more sluggish, higher birth rates among recent newcomers were driving their growing share of the population.
 ''Most of that growth is attributable to natural increase,'' said Gregory Harper, a Census Bureau demographer. 
 Kenneth M. Johnson, a sociology professor at the University of New Hampshire, said: ''It is striking that the Hispanic population could grow at such a rapid rate, despite a 13.7 percent decline in immigration. During the first years of this decade, natural increase accounted for approximately 50 percent of Hispanic growth, but in the last year it accounted for more than two-thirds.''
 An analysis by William H. Frey, a Brookings Institution demographer, found that the dispersion of Hispanic residents from traditional gateway cities has stalled because construction, service and retail jobs have disappeared in outlying suburbs, the Southeast and inland from the West Coast.
 ''The retrenchment of Hispanics is most vividly shown within California, where metropolitan Los Angeles quadrupled its Hispanic gains in the last year,'' Dr. Frey said.
 At the same time, Hispanic growth in Riverside, Calif., was halved.
 ''There were increased Hispanic gains in traditional magnets, aside from Los Angeles, like Chicago, New York, Miami, San Francisco and San Diego,'' Dr. Frey said, ''at the same time there were significant growth slowdowns in metros like Phoenix, Las Vegas, Orlando and Atlanta.''
 But even with slower growth generally in many places and less migration, Atlanta passed Chicago as the metropolitan area with the second largest black population, after New York.
 Non-Hispanic whites are the oldest Americans, with a median age of 41.1. About 21 percent were under 18 and 16 percent were 65 or older.
 The median age among Hispanic-Americans is 27.7. About 34 percent are under 18 and 6 percent are 65 and older. 
 Georgia, Maryland and Nevada edged closer to becoming states where minorities now form a majority, and six more counties -- in California, Florida (Orange County, home to Orlando and Walt Disney World), Kansas, Mississippi and Texas -- actually crossed that threshold. Since 2000, the number of counties in that category has more than doubled, to 109.
 A disproportionate number of immigrants are men, and that (coupled with the presence of military bases, among other factors) means that in 11 states (Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, North Dakota, Utah and Wyoming) men outnumber women. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: A SLOWDOWN IN GROWTH: The growth rates of the Hispanic and Asian populations nationwide have continued to decline since the start of the decade. Thirty-six states including Arizona, Florida and Nevada, where the housing boom had previously attracted large numbers of Hispanics, saw declines in the growth rate of Hispanics from 2007 to 2008. (Sources: U.S. Census Bureau
 William Frey, Brookings Institution) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (92%); CENSUS (91%); POPULATION GROWTH (91%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); ETHNICITY (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); CITIES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); IMMIGRATION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (59%); POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



488 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: Hispanic Population's Growth Propelled City to a Census Record

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
A spurt in the number of Hispanic New Yorkers helped push the city's population to nearly 8.4 million last year, while a slow but steady rise among non-Hispanic whites brought that group to the brink of regaining its majority in Manhattan for the first time in a generation, according to Census Bureau estimates to be released on Thursday. 
 Of the more than 50,000 people added in the city between July 2007 and July 2008, 27,000 were Hispanic (nearly 10,000 of them in the Bronx) and 20,000 were Asian (fully half of them in Queens). 
 The number of blacks declined slightly, as it has every year since 2000.
 The Census Bureau announced in March that the city's population had reached a new record, 8,363,710; in Thursday's estimates, it revealed the demographic details behind the increase. But the snapshot was taken before the depths of the recession, which may have tamped down immigration and slowed growth.
 In the metropolitan area, the number of Hispanics and Asians rose in every county. Non-Hispanic whites increased in only four areas: in Middlesex and Ocean Counties in New Jersey, and in Manhattan and Brooklyn.
 Nationally, the rate of growth among Hispanics and Asians has slowed, largely because of declines in immigration. The influx of foreigners to New York has not slowed as much. In fact, the city's Hispanic population grew at a faster rate in 2007-8 than during any other year this decade. 
 In Manhattan, the steady decrease in black and Hispanic residents, coupled with the increase in whites, means that as of last July, the borough's population was 49.5 percent white -- higher than it was in 1980. 
 Higher rents and apartment sale prices have driven poorer people, who are predominantly black and Hispanic, from Manhattan, while the number of white households, including families with children, has been increasing. 
 Citywide, 35 percent of the population was non-Hispanic white, 28 percent Hispanic, 24 percent black and 12 percent Asian. 
 The city's overall population gain, nearly 54,000, was the second highest of the decade. As of last July, Queens (2,293,007) had already surpassed the City Planning Department's population projection for 2010 and Brooklyn (2,556,598) fell just a few hundred short of the projection.
 Brooklyn and the Bronx (1,391,903) now have larger populations than at any other time since 1970, and Manhattan's (1,634,795) is the largest since 1960. Staten Island's population grew as well, to 487,407, a 0.9 percent gain from 2007.
 In the 22-million-person metropolitan area, the population increased by 95,000. The number of whites declined by more than 58,000 and of blacks by 4,000, while the number of Hispanic and Asian people grew by 95,000 and 45,000, respectively.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (92%); CITY LIFE (91%); CENSUS (91%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); CITIES (90%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (78%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FAMILY (73%); IMMIGRATION (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



489 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Thriving Norway Provides an Economics Lesson

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

DATELINE: OSLO 

 BODY:
When capitalism seemed on the verge of collapse last fall, Kristin Halvorsen, Norway's Socialist finance minister and a longtime free market skeptic, did more than crow.
 As investors the world over sold in a panic, she bucked the tide, authorizing Norway's $300 billion sovereign wealth fund to ramp up its stock buying program by $60 billion -- or about 23 percent of Norway 's economic output.
 ''The timing was not that bad,'' Ms. Halvorsen said, smiling with satisfaction over the broad worldwide market rally that began in early March. 
 The global financial crisis has brought low the economies of just about every country on earth. But not Norway. 
 With a quirky contrariness as deeply etched in the national character as the fjords carved into its rugged landscape, Norway has thrived by going its own way. When others splurged, it saved. When others sought to limit the role of government, Norway strengthened its cradle-to-grave welfare state.
 And in the midst of the worst global downturn since the Depression, Norway's economy grew last year by just under 3 percent. The government enjoys a budget surplus of 11 percent and its ledger is entirely free of debt.
 By comparison, the United States is expected to chalk up a fiscal deficit this year equal to 12.9 percent of its gross domestic product and push its total debt to $11 trillion, or 65 percent of the size of its economy.
 Norway is a relatively small country with a largely homogeneous population of 4.6 million and the advantages of being a major oil exporter. It counted $68 billion in oil revenue last year as prices soared to record levels. Even though prices have sharply declined, the government is not particularly worried. That is because Norway avoided the usual trap that plagues many energy-rich countries. 
 Instead of spending its riches lavishly, it passed legislation ensuring that oil revenue went straight into its sovereign wealth fund, state money that is used to make investments around the world. Now its sovereign wealth fund is close to being the largest in the world, despite losing 23 percent last year because of investments that declined.
 Norway's relative frugality stands in stark contrast to Britain, which spent most of its North Sea oil revenue -- and more -- during the boom years. Government spending rose to 47 percent of G.D.P., from 42 percent in 2003. By comparison, public spending in Norway fell to 40 percent from 48 percent of G.D.P. 
 ''The U.S. and the U.K. have no sense of guilt,'' said Anders Aslund, an expert on Scandinavia at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. ''But in Norway, there is instead a sense of virtue. If you are given a lot, you have a responsibility.''
 Eirik Wekre, an economist who writes thrillers in his spare time, describes Norwegians' feelings about debt this way: ''We cannot spend this money now; it would be stealing from future generations.'' 
 Mr. Wekre, who paid for his house and car with cash, attributes this broad consensus to as the country's iconoclasm. ''The strongest man is he who stands alone in the world,'' he said, quoting Norwegian playwright Henrik Ibsen.
 Still, even Ibsen might concede that it is easier to stand alone when your nation has benefited from oil reserves that make it the third-largest exporter in the world. The money flowing from that black gold since the early 1970s has prompted even the flintiest of Norwegians to relax and enjoy their good fortune. The country's G.D.P. per person is $52,000, behind only Luxembourg among industrial democracies.
 As in much of the rest of the world home prices have soared here, tripling this decade. But there has been no real estate crash in Norway because there were few mortgage lending excesses. After a 15 percent correction, prices are again on the rise.
 Unlike Dublin or Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, where work has stopped on half-built skyscrapers and stilled cranes dot the skylines, Oslo retains a feeling of modesty reminiscent of a fishing village rather than a Western capital, with the recently opened $800 million Opera House one of the few signs of opulence.
 Norwegian banks, said Arne J. Isachsen, an economist at the Norwegian School of Management, remain largely healthy and prudent in their lending. Banks represent just 2 percent of the economy and tight public oversight over their lending practices have kept Norwegian banks from taking on the risk that brought down their Icelandic counterparts. But they certainly have not closed their doors to borrowers. Mr. Isachsen, like many in Norway, has a second home and an open credit line from his bank, which he recently used to buy a new boat.
 Some here worry that while a cabin in the woods and a boat may not approach the excesses seen in New York or London, oil wealth and the state largesse have corrupted Norway's once-sturdy work ethic.
 ''This is an oil-for-leisure program,'' said Knut Anton Mork, an economist at Handelsbanken in Oslo. A recent study, he pointed out, found that Norwegians work the fewest hours of the citizens of any industrial democracy.
 ''We have become complacent,'' Mr. Mork added. ''More and more vacation houses are being built. We have more holidays than most countries and extremely generous benefits and sick leave policies. Some day the dream will end.''
 But that day is far off. For now, the air is clear, work is plentiful and the government's helping hand is omnipresent -- even for those on the margins.
 Just around the corner from Norway's central bank, for instance, Paul Bruum takes a needle full of amphetamines and jabs it into his muscular arm. His scabs and sores betray many years as a heroin addict. He says that the $1,500 he gets from the government each month is enough to keep him well-fed and supplied with drugs.
 Mr. Bruum, 32, says he has never had a job, and he admits he is no position to find one. ''I don't blame anyone,'' he said. ''The Norwegian government has provided for me the best they can.''
 To Ms. Halvorsen, the finance minister, even the underside of the Norwegian dream looks pretty good compared to the economic nightmares elsewhere.
 ''As a socialist, I have always said that the market can't regulate itself,'' she said. ''But even I was surprised how strong the failure was.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 22, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on May 14 about Norway's relative economic stability in the midst of a global downturn misstated its debt status. While the government enjoys a budget surplus and is a net creditor, it has liabilities related to social security and other programs equal to about 50 percent of its gross domestic product; its ledger is not ''entirely free of debt.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Friends meeting in an Oslo nightspot. Norway's economy grew 3 percent last year as many nations plunged into a recession. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ESPEN RASMUSSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
The promenade for the new opera house in Oslo, which is transforming a seaside area into a business and residential community.
 Kristin Halvorsen, Norway's finance minister, who correctly read a global stock rally despite her distrust of free markets. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ESPEN RASMUSSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A4) CHART: SEA OF PLENTY: Value of Norwegian Government Pension Fund assets. (Sources: Norwegian Ministry of Finance, Norwegian Central Bank) (pg.A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (64%); LEGISLATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OSLO, NORWAY (90%) NORTH SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) NORWAY (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



490 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: MGM Mirage to Sell $2.5 Billion in Stock and Bonds

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
The casino operator MGM Mirage took a significant step to stave off bankruptcy on Wednesday when it announced that it would issue $2.5 billion in stock and bonds as part of a broad effort to reduce its $14 billion in debt. 
 MGM Mirage's plan, which includes a proposal to buy back more than $1 billion of bonds and an amendment to the company's agreement with its banks, is aimed at gaining the company breathing room after it secured agreements paving the way for the completion of CityCenter, its troubled $8.5 billion casino and hotel development on the Las Vegas Strip. 
 Through the plan, MGM Mirage will take care of all but $1 billion in debt that matures in 2010. Only months ago, the casino company warned that its auditors had raised concerns about its viability as a going concern, and it hired the investment bank Evercore Partners and the law firm Weil, Gotshal & Manges to help advise it on a potential solution.
 ''These proposed transactions would provide a substantial boost to the company's intermediate-term liquidity profile,'' Ben Bubeck, an analyst with Standard & Poor's, wrote Wednesday in a client note.
 Casino companies in Las Vegas have struggled with the lower consumer spending that has accompanied the recession, as well as with the billions of dollars of debt they accrued during breakneck expansion over recent years. MGM Mirage said last week that its first-quarter revenue fell 11 percent.
 ''Despite the expected improvement in MGM's liquidity profile resulting from the planned capital raise, MGM's negative outlook continues to reflect weak demand on the Las Vegas Strip,'' Peggy Holloway, an analyst with Moody's Investors Service, wrote in a note to clients.
 MGM Mirage's plan is intended to avert a fire-sale of prized assets, including the Bellagio and MGM Mirage resorts, despite expressions of interest from potential bidders. The company is using those two properties as collateral for its $1.5 billion issue of bonds. 
 It is also issuing 81 million new shares, or the equivalent of 29 percent of MGM Mirage's outstanding stock, for $1 billion. Kirk Kerkorian, the investor who controls MGM Mirage through his company Tracinda, has committed to buying 10 percent of the issuance.
 MGM Mirage's plan took shape over recent weeks, as the company's shares and bonds both rose in price, especially after the resolution of CityCenter's future, a person briefed on the discussions said.
 Shares in MGM Mirage plunged 30 percent to close at $8.70 on Wednesday, although they have risen nearly 38 percent over the last month. But some of the company's bonds showed improvement: its 8.375 percent notes due in 2011 rose 15 cents to 79 cents, according to data from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
 As part of MGM Mirage's revised agreement with its banks, the company said that it would repay $750 million of outstanding loans with the proceeds from its stock and bond offerings.
 Proceeds from those two offerings will also finance the buyback of bonds due in July and October. MGM Mirage will pay face value for bonds tendered by May 27, and then 97 cents on the dollar for those tendered by June 10.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (93%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEBT NOTES (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); RECESSION (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (65%)

COMPANY: MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (93%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (65%); WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (56%); EVERCORE PARTNERS INC (56%)

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (93%); EVR (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (93%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%) NEVADA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



491 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: Brothers in Crime Writing: The Tyro and the Veteran

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:
GONE TOMORROW 
 By Lee Child 
 421 pages. Delacorte Press. $27. 
 EVEN 
 By Andrew Grant 
 341 pages. Minotaur Books. $24.95. 
 When Jim and Andrew Grant show up in public, as they did two weeks ago at the Mystery Writers of America's annual Edgar Awards ceremony, the family resemblance between these striking blue-eyed 6-foot-4 British-born thriller writers is unmistakable. But how are they related? Who's who? Jim loves being asked which Grant is older, since at 55 he is Andrew's senior by 14 years. But Jim doesn't much like being told, ''Oh yes, I met your son.''
 The situation is unusual because Jim does not ordinarily invite comparisons. He is better known as Lee Child, the Mystery Writers of America's current president and the author of the most popular mystery series in Britain and other places. As of last year Mr. Child's Jack Reacher books were selling globally at a rate of one every five seconds, or six or so million per year. If you want to make a mystery fan happy, mention that publication of Mr. Child's ''Gone Tomorrow'' is five days away, and that he has already finished writing ''61 Hours,'' the next Reacher book. 
 On the coattails of the Reacher series's success comes ''Even,'' the debut novel by Mr. Child's baby brother, Andrew. While ''Gone Tomorrow'' and ''Even'' leave no doubt about which of these writers is the rock star and which the tyro, the books overlap in ways sure to raise interest in the family's DNA. The plot and style similarities are that much more remarkable considering that Jim and Andrew grew up barely knowing each other because of their age disparity. (Jim was the second child and Andrew the fourth; two other brothers are scientists, not thriller writers; their father's work as a tax inspector emphasized keen observational skills.) ''We never lived together as brothers,'' Mr. Child said about his and Mr. Grant's adult rapport (both were reached by telephone earlier this week); ''It's more or less like finding a friend.''
 Sibling rivalry be damned: Mr. Child will introduce Mr. Grant as a guest speaker at several stops on his book tour. And Mr. Child plans to help Mr. Grant ''as much as he wants,'' but that probably won't be much; as is evident in their writing, each has a stubborn streak. Although both brothers write about tough, combative, wise-talking loners who happily inflict harm on the world's miscreants, they've never gotten into a physical fight with each other. That's because they don't want to know who would win. ''We both hate to lose,'' Mr. Child said.
 The very American 6-foot-5 Jack Reacher hates to lose too. And ''Gone Tomorrow'' begins with a terrible gaffe on Reacher's part. He is riding in a New York City subway car at 2 in the morning when he spots a woman who alarms him. The book's lean, mean opening paragraph: ''Suicide bombers are easy to spot. They give out all sorts of telltale signs. Maybe because they're nervous. By definition they're all first-timers.'' 
 Reacher, being Reacher, knows Israeli counterintelligence's 11-point list of telltale signs for spotting female terrorists. He also knows the exact specifications of the R142A Kawasaki-built New York City subway car, down to its automated announcement system, which gives orders in a man's voice and information in a woman's. Much of the guilty pleasure delivered by Mr. Child's books comes from their fine-tuned, obsessively deductive use of data. 
 There's some of that in ''Even'' too. Mr. Grant's main character, the Royal Naval Intelligence officer David Trevellyan, is tonier and more British than Reacher but is cut from similar cloth. Put these guys near a door or window, and they'll make strategic calculations about its hasp -- and then use it to make an entrance or getaway.
 When the subway-riding woman, who is not a suicide bomber, winds up dead because of Reacher's meddling, he attracts the interest of the Police Department. But something about the dead woman's identity puts larger forces into play. Soon, by the improbably upward-spiraling logic that drives these books and would give readers pause if pausing were possible (it's not), Reacher has become a target for secretive foreign agents, federal officials and certain persons from the Pentagon. One of this book's high-powered, intricately wrought suspense sequences brings together three groups of Reacher catchers, Reacher and Reacher's knowledge of the New York subway system.
 The precise maneuvers in that showdown illustrate why Mr. Child is so good at what he does. But what is he doing? ''Gone Tomorrow'' has such a case of villain inflation that it involves itself in global geopolitics on the highest order. One step higher into the upper reaches of evildoing and Mr. Child could find himself on the moon. 
 ''Gone Tomorrow'' prompts nostalgia for the simpler books in the series, those in which Reacher ambles into a rural setting, smells trouble, gets to the heart of some local malfeasance and then drifts away, leaving the most no-nonsense, trim-looking woman in town with a secret smile on her face. The series has vacillated between these two extremes. Mr. Child said that ''61 Hours'' would be ''very much more run of the mill.''
 That women are the wickedest creatures, and that they commit ghastly atrocities immortalized on video are two features in ''Gone Tomorrow'' curiously echoed in ''Even.'' Both books include episodes in which their main characters are confined in cages. And both devote close attention to guns, although Mr. Child said he had held one only when a photographer wanted him to look tough. 
 When it comes to flat-out violence (and Mr. Grant is more extreme in that direction), Mr. Child very deliberately chooses to let this story become ugly. ''You'd be surprised,'' he said. ''I meet gray-haired grannies who love the gruesome bits.''
 Both ''Gone Tomorrow'' and ''Even'' are set in New York, where Trevellyan sounds like a British tourist while Reacher's command of New York geography is exacting. Amazingly, however, for a guy so obsessed with details and logistics, Reacher swills vast amounts of coffee without noting the whereabouts of a bathroom. 
 Reacher's New York savvy culminates in a blow-by-blow, stunningly well-choreographed showdown on East 58th Street. Reacher arrives at the site armed to the teeth, ready to deploy his phenomenal fighting skills against a wily enemy in the silent dead of night. In this case there is a clear connection between life and art. Mr. Child spied this location while buying a painting at an art gallery across the street. In daylight.
 ''Gone Tomorrow'' winds up taking the Reacher franchise to a wild extreme. That this Reacher is so effortlessly larger than life is evidence of how intense the overall series has become. ''Even'' is in the same vein, if not the same league. It would bring Mr. Child's style to mind whether or not the authors were brothers. 
 But they are. And they were careful about copycatting: Mr. Grant deliberately stopped reading his brother once he knew he wanted to write. They wound up with parallel plot points anyway, but that's not surprising. 
 ''We had done very similar things in out lives without knowing we'd done them,'' Mr. Grant said. Now they've done those things not only in life but also on the page. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 22, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Books of The Times review on May 14, about ''Gone Tomorrow,'' by Lee Child, and ''Even,'' by Andrew Grant, misstated a word in the opening paragraph of ''Gone Tomorrow.'' The paragraph says: ''Suicide bombers are easy to spot. They give out all sorts of telltale signs. Mostly because they're nervous. By definition they're all first-timers.'' It does not say, ''Maybe because they're nervous.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A 1973 picture shows Andrew Grant, left, and his brother Jim, who is 14 years older than Andrew. Both have new books out.(PHOTOGRAPH BY COURTESY OF ANDREW AND JIM GRANT)
 Jim Grant, left, who writes as Lee Child, and Andrew Grant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SIGRID ESTRADA)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (93%); WRITERS (91%); CELEBRITIES (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (57%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



492 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: At an Upbeat Christie's Auction, Some Record Prices

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
One night collectors seemed resistant to part with their cash; the next evening they were clamoring to bid. Such was the auction whiplash that occurred over a 24-hour period. Unlike Sotheby's sale on Tuesday, where bidding was thin and buyers reluctant, Christie's auction of postwar and contemporary art on Wednesday showed a different face altogether. It was a buoyant hour and a half during which record prices were set for recognized artists like David Hockney. 
 The sale totaled $93.7 million, just under its high $104.5 million estimate. Of the 54 works up for sale, only 5 failed to find buyers. 
 What made the Christie's auction a success was that early in the season the company won estate property filled with work bought shortly after it was made. That became a sales tool to lure other sellers. It was also an evening filled with a greater variety that appealed to a wider group of collectors. 
 But let's not get carried away. The evening, while a victory for the auction house, still illustrated how contracted the market has become; a comparable auction exactly a year ago brought $348.2 million. 
 Another secret to Wednesday night's results was in its conservative estimates. Christie's cleverly began the evening with a group of 20 paintings, drawings and sculptures from the estate of Betty Freeman, a leading patron of contemporary music. Ms. Freeman, who died in January at the age of 87, also loved contemporary art, and in the 1950s she began collecting pieces by Abstract Expressionist painters like Clyfford Still, Sam Francis and Mark Rothko. Over the years she expanded her purview, buying prime examples from artists like David Hockney, Roy Lichtenstein, Claes Oldenburg and Dan Flavin. 
 Among the stars from her estate was Mr. Hockney's ''Beverly Hills Housewife,'' from 1966-67. Depicting Ms. Freeman standing on the patio of her home, the double canvas, which measures 12 feet long by 6 feet high, brought in a record $7.9 million, within the $6 million to $10 million estimate. Another popular painting from Ms. Freeman's collection was Lichtenstein's ''Frolic,'' from 1977. More than 6 feet by 5 feet, it depicts a blonde woman dancing across a beach. Larry Gagosian, the New York dealer, beat out two other bidders for the painting, paying $6 million, a record price for the artist. 
 (Final prices include the commission to Christie's: 25 percent of the first $50,000, 20 percent of the next $50,000 to $1 million, and 12 percent of the rest. Estimates do not reflect commissions.)
 ''Grey'' one of Ms. Freeman's abstract canvases by Sam Francis, from 1954, also topped its estimate. Joanne Heyler, director of the Broad Art Foundation in Los Angeles, bought it for $3.6 million, above its high $3 million estimate. Ms. Heyler said she was bidding on behalf of Eli Broad, the financier, who acquired it for his personal collection. 
 Classic, safe, blue-chip works tended to fare best. A prime example was ''Ocean Park No. 117'' (1979), from Richard Diebenkorn's seminal series. The audience responded enthusiastically, and an unidentified telephone bidder bought the painting for $5.8 million, or $6.5 million with fees, above its high $6 million estimate. 
 Calder was another sure winner. Impervious to the economy, he is one artist whose prices have been consistently strong. Five people wanted a 1943 wire and wood wall relief estimated at $1.2 million to $1.8 million. Another telephone bidder snapped it up, paying $2.8 million. 
 Since his retrospective at Tate Britain in London last summer, Peter Doig has gained in popularity. On Wednesday night, ''Night Fishing,'' a 1993 painting of a lone fishing boat at dusk, was expected to bring $3 million to $4 million. It sold to Victoria Gelfand from the Gagosian Gallery for $4.7 million. 
 After the sale, the audience seemed amazed at how collectors were still eager to buy art in this economy. ''Things were more reasonable,'' said Peter Brant, the newsprint magnate, as he was leaving Christie's. ''The market has found its level.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Hockney's ''Beverly Hills Housewife'' brought in $7.9 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANK FRANKLIN II/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PAINTING (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); SCULPTURE (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); MUSIC (50%)

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%)

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



493 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: The Almighty Renminbi?

BYLINE: By NOURIEL ROUBINI. 
Nouriel Roubini is a professor of economics at the New York University Stern School of Business and the chairman of an economic consulting firm.

 BODY:
THE 19th century was dominated by the British Empire, the 20th century by the United States. We may now be entering the Asian century, dominated by a rising China and its currency. While the dollar's status as the major reserve currency will not vanish overnight, we can no longer take it for granted. Sooner than we think, the dollar may be challenged by other currencies, most likely the Chinese renminbi. This would have serious costs for America, as our ability to finance our budget and trade deficits cheaply would disappear. 
 Traditionally, empires that hold the global reserve currency are also net foreign creditors and net lenders. The British Empire declined -- and the pound lost its status as the main global reserve currency -- when Britain became a net debtor and a net borrower in World War II. Today, the United States is in a similar position. It is running huge budget and trade deficits, and is relying on the kindness of restless foreign creditors who are starting to feel uneasy about accumulating even more dollar assets. The resulting downfall of the dollar may be only a matter of time. 
 But what could replace it? The British pound, the Japanese yen and the Swiss franc remain minor reserve currencies, as those countries are not major powers. Gold is still a barbaric relic whose value rises only when inflation is high. The euro is hobbled by concerns about the long-term viability of the European Monetary Union. That leaves the renminbi. 
 China is a creditor country with large current account surpluses, a small budget deficit, much lower public debt as a share of G.D.P. than the United States, and solid growth. And it is already taking steps toward challenging the supremacy of the dollar. Beijing has called for a new international reserve currency in the form of the International Monetary Fund's special drawing rights (a basket of dollars, euros, pounds and yen). China will soon want to see its own currency included in the basket, as well as the renminbi used as a means of payment in bilateral trade.
 At the moment, though, the renminbi is far from ready to achieve reserve currency status. China would first have to ease restrictions on money entering and leaving the country, make its currency fully convertible for such transactions, continue its domestic financial reforms and make its bond markets more liquid. It would take a long time for the renminbi to become a reserve currency, but it could happen. China has already flexed its muscle by setting up currency swaps with several countries (including Argentina, Belarus and Indonesia) and by letting institutions in Hong Kong issue bonds denominated in renminbi, a first step toward creating a deep domestic and international market for its currency. 
 If China and other countries were to diversify their reserve holdings away from the dollar -- and they eventually will -- the United States would suffer. We have reaped significant financial benefits from having the dollar as the reserve currency. In particular, the strong market for the dollar allows Americans to borrow at better rates. We have thus been able to finance larger deficits for longer and at lower interest rates, as foreign demand has kept Treasury yields low. We have been able to issue debt in our own currency rather than a foreign one, thus shifting the losses of a fall in the value of the dollar to our creditors. Having commodities priced in dollars has also meant that a fall in the dollar's value doesn't lead to a rise in the price of imports.
 Now, imagine a world in which China could borrow and lend internationally in its own currency. The renminbi, rather than the dollar, could eventually become a means of payment in trade and a unit of account in pricing imports and exports, as well as a store of value for wealth by international investors. Americans would pay the price. We would have to shell out more for imported goods, and interest rates on both private and public debt would rise. The higher private cost of borrowing could lead to weaker consumption and investment, and slower growth. 
 This decline of the dollar might take more than a decade, but it could happen even sooner if we do not get our financial house in order. The United States must rein in spending and borrowing, and pursue growth that is not based on asset and credit bubbles. For the last two decades America has been spending more than its income, increasing its foreign liabilities and amassing debts that have become unsustainable. A system where the dollar was the major global currency allowed us to prolong reckless borrowing. 
 Now that the dollar's position is no longer so secure, we need to shift our priorities. This will entail investing in our crumbling infrastructure, alternative and renewable resources and productive human capital -- rather than in unnecessary housing and toxic financial innovation. This will be the only way to slow down the decline of the dollar, and sustain our influence in global affairs. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GARY TAXALI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EURO (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); BRITISH POUND (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); BONDS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); BOND MARKETS (64%); BOND ISSUES (60%); WORLD WAR II (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); JAPAN (79%); HONG KONG (79%); INDONESIA (79%); BELARUS (69%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



494 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Industrial Production Rises Slightly in China

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Industrial production in China rose less than expected in April, the latest reminder that while the country's economy is on a relatively firm footing, the pace of growth is unlikely to bounce back to the levels seen in the last few years. 
 Data released by the government statistics bureau on Wednesday showed factory output, a barometer of overall economic growth, rising 7.3 percent from a year earlier -- below the 8.3 percent that was recorded in March and below what analysts had expected for April.
 That followed trade statistics earlier this week that showed China's exports slumping 22.6 percent in April from a year earlier, which was more than expected. 
 Still, those two reports -- and a 14.8 percent year-on-year rise in April retail sales reported Wednesday -- painted a picture of an economy that is growing much more rapidly than those in Europe and the United States. Many analysts have said that China may be able to manage growth of 7 percent to 8 percent this year on the strength of government stimulus measures.
 But even 8 percent would be well below the double-digit growth rates China experienced for half a decade before the global financial crisis, and the softer April statistics highlighted that an all-out recovery is by no means imminent.
 In addition, many economists caution that the 4 trillion renminbi ($584 billion) in stimulus measures announced late last year, which are heavily focused on infrastructure, represent a temporary shot in the arm rather than a way to set up the economy for firm growth into next year and beyond.
 In particular, it will take years to bring about a rise in domestic demand, which is seen as crucial to reducing China's reliance on exports and bringing about sustained growth.
 Household demand within China is constrained by low income growth and high savings rates as consumers stash their savings in order to provide for their retirement, sickness and their children's education. 
 Changing this attitude by bettering state pensions and health care plans will take years, if not decades, to accomplish, analysts say.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Ma'anshan Iron and Steel Company in Hefei, China. Factory output grew more slowly last month than it did in March.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIANAN YU/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); CHILDREN (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); RETAIL SALES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANHUI, CHINA (73%); EAST CHINA (58%); LIAONING, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



495 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; FRONT ROW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: At Henri Bendel, The Street of Sorrows

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
AS a student at the Fashion Institute of Technology in the early 1960s, Stephen Burrows often teased his classmates about who among them would become the first to sell clothes at Henri Bendel. 
 ''At the time, it was the epitome of chic and fashion forward in New York,'' Mr. Burrows recalled. As it happened, he would be the first. 
 Mr. Burrows, the designer of joyously colored jersey disco dresses, was one of the most famous discoveries of Geraldine Stutz, the store's renowned president for nearly three decades, and the many comebacks of his career have occurred in the aisles of Henri Bendel. In 1970, when he first started selling there, Mr. Burrows would often be called down to the store (then at 10 West 57th Street) to personally assist Barbra Streisand, Diana Ross or Lauren Bacall. 
 ''It was a family thing,'' Mr. Burrows said. ''They were very nurturing and supportive. They helped me become well known.''
 Perhaps more than any other glittering nameplate of Manhattan's retail legends, Henri Bendel, in its many incarnations, has been a welcoming beacon for new designers, as just about anyone with a handbag line or a coat collection could find an audience with a buyer just by walking into the store. In the 1960s and '70s, Zoran, Zandra Rhodes, Mary McFadden and Sonia Rykiel were among those who started out at Bendel's, spotted by Ms. Stutz or Joel Schumacher, who was the store's visual display director. 
 The tradition continued when Bendel's was sold to Limited Brands in 1986; when it moved to 712 Fifth Avenue in the 1990s; and during those times when it changed its focus to ''contemporary'' designers to mostly lingerie and back again to the quirky array of prestigious labels it sells today (where Balmain tuxedo jackets meet Lindsay Lohan leggings). 
 Two weeks ago, however, Bendel's announced that it will stop selling clothes and, beginning this fall, focus solely on more lucrative accessories, gifts and beauty products, including those sold under the Henri Bendel brand. The third floor will go vacant. And although the store will continue to see new designers (of accessories and beauty products) and open stores selling Bendel-branded flip-flops and candles at malls around the country, this moment, to many designers, feels like the passing of an era.
 ''It's annoying,'' said Nanette Lepore, who recalled a window display at the store in the early 1990s, created around one of her peacock-feathered dresses, that was ''traffic-stopping-ly beautiful.''
 ''It was like Bonwit Teller,'' she said. ''You had this feel of really old-school shopping, but very chic. Whatever Bendel's set up became the plan for what a lot of other stores later adopted.''
 Ms. Stutz's concept of a ''street of shops,'' introduced in the '60s with separate departments for watches, handbags or fashion themes, was a precursor to modern merchandising displays. The store was a jewel box for designers, often propelling them to a bigger stage even though its sales were small compared with stores like Saks Fifth Avenue or Bloomingdale's. Andy Oshrin, the chief executive of Milly, said it represented less than a half of 1 percent of its business, ''but it's sad because Bendel's has become an institution in New York City.'' 
 It was Bendel's signature to offer the newest thing and the most daring pieces designers could imagine. ''We could make a giant tutu and Bendel's would try it,'' said Stacey Bendet, the designer of Alice + Olivia. ''There was fashion you hadn't seen at other places.'' But in this economy, risk-taking with fashion makes a little less sense when customers gravitate to more accessibly priced accessories.
 Bendel's relatively small size, compared with nearby Bergdorf Goodman and Barneys New York, has made it difficult for the store to compete with fashion in recent years. But in the 1970s its prestige was undisputed. Dawn Mello, the former president of Bergdorf, said it took a while for Bergdorf to catch up. ''In 1975, the average age of the Bergdorf customer was perhaps 60, while our competition across the street was the exciting place to shop,'' she said. 
 Where Bendel remains exciting today, she noted, is on its main floor, where it has introduced new accessories and beauty lines. It was the first retailer to carry MAC back when it was a ''fledgling little lipstick company,'' Ms. Mello said, adding that the decision to devote itself to those categories was understandable. ''It could be a more profitable experience,'' she said.
 Ms. Bendet echoed the thought. ''It's sad to me, but I kind of get it,'' she said. ''If I'm going in there and going straight to the hair clips, I guess that is their market.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE WAY IT WAS: Clockwise from top left, the street of shops, Geraldine Stutz in 1959, a view from the top today, a window designed by Stephen Sprouse in 1988 and the entrance today. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, FROM LEFT, PETER KRAMER/GETTY IMAGES, EDWARD HAUSNER/THE NEW YORK TIMES, BILL CUNNINGHAM/THE NEW YORK TIMES, KEITH BEDFORD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, WILBUR PIPPIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (90%)

PERSON: LINDSAY LOHAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



496 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: Fierce Fighting Continues in Somalia

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: MOGADISHU 

 BODY:
Militiamen loyal to the government battled Islamist al Shabab fighters in Somalia on Wednesday, despite calls from around the world for a halt to the country's worst fighting in months. 
 Years of conflict have sucked in foreign militants, confounded 15 attempts to establish a central government, killed tens of thousands, displaced millions and created a security vacuum that has spawned piracy and other criminal activity.
 Since the weekend, the capital Mogadishu has been rocked by mortar and machine gun fire as Islamist rebels try to topple President Sheikh Sharif Ahmed's government. The violence has killed at least 113 civilians, and thousands have fled the city.
 There have also been fierce clashes between the Shabab and a more moderate Islamist militia, Ahlu Sunna, in the country's central and southern regions. At least five people died on Tuesday in Mahas town, witnesses said.
 ''Al-Shabab fighters ran into a mosque for refuge, but residents kept firing at them with rocket-propelled grenades,'' Aden Hussein, a resident, said by telephone.
 Local elders later intervened, he added, and persuaded the Shabab gunmen to lay down their arms. The 126 rebels were briefly held captive, then released, residents said.
 An elder told Reuters that the insurgents had repeatedly been told to leave the town, which lies southwest of El Bur, a major Shabab stronghold since 2006. ''They turned a deaf ear, but we are ready to fight if we are attacked,'' Mohamed Nur said.
 Thousands of residents have fled parts of northern Mogadishu, the scene of some of the worst fighting in recent days. On Wednesday, heavy clashes shook the same rain-swept streets again. Few details were immediately available.
 The United Nations, African Union, European Union and the United States have all condemned the violence and urged support for Ahmed's young government, formed in January.
 The African Union Peace and Security Commissioner Ramtane Lamamra told reporters in Addis Ababa that more peacekeepers were expected to join the 4,300-strong African Union force of Burundians and Ugandans there.
 ''We have received a pledge from Burundi for another battalion. With the pledge from Sierra Leone that brings the total to nearly 6,000. They will arrive as soon as possible.''
 The United Nations special envoy to Somalia, Ahmedou Ould-Abdallah, said more attention was needed on combating criminal activities.
 Criminal gangs, militia and a myriad armed players have made millions of dollars through kidnappings, extortion, illegal trading and piracy over the last 18 years of Somalia's anarchy.
 ''Time is long overdue to address the economic, financial and criminal activity related to the Somali crisis. We see only a political crisis,'' he told reporters in Ethiopia's capital.
 ''(The government) may be weak, and it is weak. But to perpetuate the idea that it is a civil conflict for political reasons is very easy. Piracy has been very helpful in drawing attention to the money side of this crisis.''
 The nation has been torn by conflict since 1991 when warlords ousted dictator Mohamed Siad Barre and then turned on each other. More than 16,000 civilians have been killed by fighting since the start of 2007, more than 1 million are internal refugees, and some 3.2 million survive on food aid.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (94%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); DISPLACED PERSONS (77%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); DISARMAMENT (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (93%); ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (79%) SOMALIA (95%); AFRICA (93%); BURUNDI (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UGANDA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



497 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: In Bleak Afghan Outpost, Troops Slog On as Pentagon Alters Strategy

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS

DATELINE: KORANGAL OUTPOST, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
The helicopters landed in blackness before the moon rose. The infantry company rushed out and through waist-high vegetation and into forests on an Afghan ridge.
 Over the next 40 hours, more than 100 soldiers from the First Battalion, 26th Infantry, swept Sautalu Sar, the mountain where members of the Navy Seals were surrounded in battle in 2005. They were looking for weapons caches and insurgents.
 They labored uphill through snow until daybreak, when the company broke into smaller patrols above 9,200 feet. They descended the next night through gullies and shin-deep mud and staggered back to their outpost without having yet slept. 
 All the while, the insurgents watched. Why fight the Americans when the Americans were ready and strong?
 Afghanistan is to be President Obama's war, and the Pentagon is retooling its efforts here in ways it hopes will undermine a sprawling insurgency. But as soldiers on the ground await reinforcements, this American operation showed that an old axiom of guerrilla warfare still applied: Where conventional soldiers mass, insurgents usually disperse. 
 Even the means were familiar. In the Korangal Valley, the insurgents have spotters on ridges. When the Americans send out a patrol, or launch a helicopter assault, spotters relay word up and down the valley. Then they decide what, if anything, to do.
 What is the way through? The United States once talked of winning here. Now it speaks, more carefully, of succeeding. How success will be defined remains any soldier's guess. 
 Will it be enough to ensure Afghanistan is not a launching pad for attacks against the United States and its allies -- in other words, to ensure it is not a national security threat? 
 Or will success be declared when Afghanistan aligns with the more ambitious vision projected by the Bush administration? In that plan, Afghanistan, one of the most traditional lands on earth, becomes a nation remade along at least faintly Western lines. 
 For that to be achieved, a far-flung and multiethnic population would have to accept a national idea and create a functioning government with free and fair elections, women's rights, honest police officers and courts, and a diverse economy not floated by drugs. Pakistan, which harbors insurgents, would have to stabilize its frontiers.
 Instead, Pakistan is simmering, and conditions for Afghan self-sufficiency are not going to be met soon. And so where the war is at its most violent and the other side usually picks when to fight, soldiers focus on immediate things, like not getting killed, and trying to kill the insurgents with whom they constantly skirmish. 
 Each day there are patrols, and watches to stand, and weapons to clean, and the difficulties of staying healthy in a harsh place, where ravens and dogs fight over the smoldering trash pit and flies move between chow tables and the latrine. And there is the dwindling, as units lose members to injuries, illness or death.
 But after a long combat tour, the soldiers have gleaned insights valuable outside their bloody little plot, including that Afghan insurgents are not supermen, as they are often portrayed. They are lightly equipped. Sometimes they appear malnourished. Intelligence intercepts indicate that while they can coordinate their actions, they compete and quarrel with one another like anyone else. 
 No matter the legends of yesteryear, their ranks are crowded with poor marksmen -- a weakness that makes them less effective than they might be. 
 Even still, the American presence is thin enough, and the Afghan and Pakistani governments weak enough, that in large areas the insurgents are both shadowy and the dominant social and military force. In these places, an American operation can feel like a thrust into air. Heavily armed soldiers are left to trudge, as outsiders in Afghanistan always have, through punishing weather and terrain.
 Near the sweep's end, as the company descended a cliff, a large rock slipped free and began a bouncing descent. Soldiers above warned soldiers below. ''Rock!'' they shouted. ''Rock!'' 
 No use. The chunk of stone, perhaps weighing 70 pounds, spun through the air and slammed into Sgt. Christopher Thompson. It could have killed him, but it struck squarely on his flak jacket, which distributed the impact. Sergeant Thompson was stunned. He drifted in and out of consciousness.
 Within 15 minutes he regained his feet. In a half hour he was fording the river with soldiers beside him ensuring that he did not slip and drown. Then he climbed the hill on the far side.
 This unglamorous sort of toughness is a common sight. But insurgents display toughness, too, making Korangal Valley an example of what can happen when determined adversaries settle into a competition for a small space. 
 American soldiers here pass their tours in an incredibly narrow plot: a string of fields, a few hundred houses and the rocky trails that connect them. 
 If the valley will be won over by fighting, then more troops may tilt the balance. But the Army cannot support more troops here without a road to resupply them, and the insurgents have prevented a road from being built. So the two sides fight as if in another time, with groups of men maneuvering and firing at each other from the same areas each day, gradually thinning each other's ranks.
 The morning after the sweep, the soldiers gathered outside. A pair of boots, a helmet and a rifle had been arranged before an American flag. Dog tags hung from the rifle. They bore the name of Pfc. Richard Dewater, 21, who had been killed by a bomb hidden on a trail. 
 ''Tricky,'' the soldiers called him. He had just celebrated his first wedding anniversary, and hoped to start a family after returning to the United States this summer. Instead the soldiers filed past, in pairs and in threes, to grieve his early return. Many cried.
 After the ceremony, the violence resumed. The soldiers detected a Taliban spotter on a ridge, which was pounded with mortars and then white phosphorus rounds from a 155-millimeter howitzer. 
 What did the insurgents do? When the smoldering subsided, they attacked from exactly the same spot, shelling the outpost with 30-millimeter grenades and putting the soldiers on notice that the last display of firepower had little effect. The Americans escalated. An A-10 aircraft made several gun runs, then dropped a 500-pound bomb. 
 The valley quieted. Had the insurgents been killed? Probably not, the soldiers said. Another day in the Korangal, with both sides making the point they made during the sweep: Do what you will. We are still here. 
 More American troops are due in Afghanistan later this year, with hopes of strengthening the government, filling seams across the south and east, where the Taliban is often unchallenged, and breaking exactly this kind of deadlock.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American soldiers recently patrolled several ridges in the mountains above the Korangal Valley in Afghanistan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Americans patrol each day from their Korangal base. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); HELICOPTERS (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); DOGS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (65%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); WOMEN (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



498 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1528 words

HEADLINE: Lead Is a Concern for Urban Gardens

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

 BODY:
FRANK MEUSCHKE'S garden, which surrounds the house he rents in Brooklyn, is a bountiful source of tomatoes, snap peas, green beans, peppers, lettuce and multiple varieties of flowers. It is also, as he recently discovered to his dismay, a rich repository of lead. He had his soil tested last month, and the analysis showed more than nine times the amount of lead expected to occur naturally.
 Mr. Meuschke, an artist who specializes in landscape paintings, is well aware of the dangers of lead paint. ''You know not to eat while you paint,'' he said. And he had suspected that paint scraped off houses in his neighborhood might have left lead residue in the soil over the years. ''But I really didn't expect there to be that much,'' he said. 
 Harmful even at very low doses, lead is surprisingly prevalent and persistent in urban and suburban soil. Dust from lead-tainted soil is toxic to inhale, and food grown in it is hazardous to eat. 
 Health officials, soil scientists and environmental engineers worry that the increasing popularity of gardening, particularly the urban kind, will put more people at risk for lead poisoning if they don't protect themselves. 
 Thanks in part to the influence of the local-food movement and to economic considerations, more households in the United States plan, like the Obamas, to grow their own fruits, vegetables, herbs and berries this year -- seven million more households, according to the National Gardening Association, a 19 percent increase over last year.
 While the increased physical activity and access to fresh produce promised by this trend are certainly healthy developments, widespread lead contamination means that many people are going to have to do more than wear gloves and sunscreen to garden safely. The presence of lead in soil doesn't mean gardening is out of the question, but it may require a change in plot design and choice of crops, and soil amendments. 
 ''You won't know if you're at risk unless you test your soil,'' said Murray McBride, a professor of soil chemistry at Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y., which because of concerns about lead in community gardens began a free soil-testing program last month in cooperation with the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation. 
 County extension services as well as local public health departments often offer free soil testing or can recommend schools or companies that do it for a fee. Individuals generally mail dirt in sealed plastic bags for analysis. Mr. Meuschke paid $12 to have his soil tested by the Environmental Sciences Analytic Center at Brooklyn College; some private companies charge as much as $50.
 The Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Housing and Urban Development advise (but do not require) remediation if lead levels in soil exceed 400 parts per million in children's play areas and 1,200 p.p.m. elsewhere. But some states and cities have set much lower limits. For example, 100 p.p.m. is considered hazardous in Minneapolis. In the Netherlands, 40 p.p.m. is unacceptable. Unpolluted soil averages 10 p.p.m. Mr. Meuschke's soil had lead levels of 939 p.p.m. 
 Since 2003, hazardous amounts of lead have been documented in backyard and community gardens in New York as well as in Baltimore, Boston, Chicago, Detroit, Indianapolis, Los Angeles, Minneapolis, New Orleans, Philadelphia and Washington. Lead-laden soil has been found not only in inner city neighborhoods but also suburban areas. 
 ''It doesn't matter if you're rich or poor,'' said David Johnson, a professor of environmental chemistry at the State University of New York College of Environmental Science and Forestry in Syracuse, where he has found lead concentrations as high as 65,000 p.p.m. in the yards of upscale homes. ''Lead knows no socioeconomic boundaries.'' 
 Excessive lead in soil is the legacy not only of lead paint but also of leaded gasoline, lead plumbing and lead arsenate pesticides. Although these products were outlawed decades ago, their remnants linger in the environment. Lead batteries and automotive parts, particularly wheel balancing weights, are still widely used and are sources of soil contamination. 
 Soil is likely to contain high levels of lead if it is near any structure built before 1978, when lead-based paint was taken off the market, or if a building of that vintage was ever demolished on the site. Pesticides containing lead were often used on fruit trees, so land close to old orchards is also of concern. And beware of soil around heavily trafficked roadways; it, too, is probably laced with lead. But environmental engineers and soil experts said any place is potentially tainted. 
 ''It's kind of a dirty secret nobody really knows about because we're all distracted worrying about lead in toys from China,'' said Gabriel Filippelli, a professor of earth science at Indiana University-Purdue University in Indianapolis who has published several papers on lead accumulation in soil. His and other research indicates lead levels in people's blood correspond directly to the amount of lead in the soil where they live. 
 ''We have been unable to identify the threshold of lead exposure at which there is no risk to health,'' said Mary Jean Brown, chief of lead poisoning prevention in the Healthy Housing Branch of the federal Centers for Disease Control. ''But we know the risk increases with increased exposure.''
 Fetuses and small children, because of their rapidly developing nervous systems, are more sensitive to and suffer the most harm from lead exposure. Adverse effects include damage to the brain and nervous system, lower I.Q., behavior problems and slow growth. Adults may suffer cognitive decline, hypertension, nerve disorders, muscle pain and reproductive problems. 
 If soil is found to have high levels of lead, experts advise covering it with sod. Those who want to grow flowers or edible crops can either replace the contaminated soil or alkalinize it by adding lime or organic matter such as compost. Soil with a pH level above 7 binds with lead, making it less likely to be absorbed by plants and the human body if the dirt is inadvertently inhaled or ingested. 
 The White House is mixing lime and compost into the soil for its kitchen garden, which according to a National Parks Service analysis has 93 p.p.m. of lead -- an amount above background levels but not considered hazardous to children or adults by the E.P.A.'s standards. 
 Dr. Filippelli recommends planting kitchen gardens with fruiting crops like tomatoes, squash, eggplant, corn and beans because they don't readily accumulate lead. Lead-leaching crops, he said, include herbs, leafy greens and root vegetables such as potatoes, radishes and carrots. Dirt also clings to these crops, making it hard to wash off and thereby increasing the risk of ingesting lead. 
 But some experts advise planting greens, specifically Indian mustard and spinach, for a couple of seasons as phytoremediation, or plant-based mitigation, before growing crops intended for food. By growing spinach for three months, researchers at the University of Southern Maine lowered the lead count in one garden by 200 p.p.m. Of course, the lead-leaching crop cannot be eaten or composted and must be disposed of as toxic waste. 
 A safer approach, particularly in areas where lead levels exceed 400 p.p.m., is to build raised or contained beds lined with landscape fabric and filled with uncontaminated soil. Luckily for Mr. Meuschke, many of his edible crops are in containers or pots filled with dirt bought at nurseries.
 But lead dust blowing in the wind or rain splashing off lead-painted structures can sully food grown even in raised beds or containers. Situating gardens away from buildings is therefore a good idea, as is washing produce thoroughly with water containing 1 percent vinegar or 0.5 percent soap. 
 ''It isn't that you shouldn't garden if you find lead in the soil, you just have to manage the space,'' said Edie Stone, executive director of GreenThumb, a division of the New York City Parks and Recreation Department that supports urban gardening. ''You can't assume what you buy at the grocery store is any safer.'' Peanuts anyone? 
 Where to Have Soil Tested The Environmental Protection Agency's lead hot line, (800) 424-5323, can refer callers to health departments, which will either do soil testing or provide names of local certified labs. County extension services can be found through the Web site of the Department of Agriculture's Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service at csrees.usda.gov /Extension. They often do testing or can provide referrals to universities, colleges or private companies that do. In the New York Area Cornell Nutrient Analysis Laboratories, cnal .cals.cornell.edu, (607) 255-4540. Brooklyn College Environmental Science Analytical Center, brooklyn.cuny.edu/pub /departments/esac, (718) 951-5000, extension 2647. More information on health issues is available at the Web site of the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, at www.atsdr.cdc .gov/toxprofiles/tp13.html. More on lead in the environment is at the E.P.A. Web site at epa.gov /lead. 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 21, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Thursday about lead in urban garden soil misstated the degree to which Frank Meuschke's garden in Brooklyn exceeded the lead content in soil considered unpolluted. It had more than 90 times that amount, not more than 9 times. And a picture caption with the article misstated the given name of a woman examining a plant from that garden. She is Adriana Heintz, not Ariana.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CROP WOES: Frank Meuschke learned the soil in his Brooklyn garden has high levels of lead. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK ANDRADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D1)
 PLANT CAREFULLY: Frank Meuschke, left, shows perennials to Ariana Heintz, a fellow gardener. His garden's soil has over nine times the normal lead levels. Luckily, many edible crops were already in containers, above, with nursery dirt. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PATRICK ANDRADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEAD (92%); LEAD PAINT (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); CITIES (90%); GARDENING (90%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (89%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); AGRONOMY (78%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (77%); LEAD POISONING (77%); POISONINGS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); ENGINEERING (72%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (72%); TRENDS (71%); PAINTING (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (68%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (67%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (67%); CHILDREN (66%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GARDENING ASSOCIATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



499 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: OBAMA PROPOSES A FIRST OVERHAUL OF FINANCE RULES

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON and JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In its first detailed effort to overhaul financial regulations, the Obama administration on Wednesday sought new authority over the complex financial instruments, known as derivatives, that were a major cause of the financial crisis and have gone largely unregulated for decades. 
 The administration asked Congress to move quickly on legislation that would allow federal oversight of many kinds of exotic instruments, including credit-default swaps, the insurance contracts that caused the near-collapse of the American International Group.
 The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, said the measure should require swaps and other types of derivatives to be traded on exchanges or clearinghouses and backed by capital reserves, much like the capital cushions that banks must set aside in case a borrower defaults on a loan. Taken together, the rules would probably make it more expensive for issuers, dealers and buyers alike to participate in the derivatives markets.
 The proposal will probably force many types of derivatives into the open, reducing the role of the so-called shadow banking system that has arisen around them. 
 ''This financial crisis was caused in large part by significant gaps in the oversight of the markets,'' Mr. Geithner said in a briefing. He said the proposal was intended to make the trading of derivatives more transparent and give regulators the ability to limit the amount of derivatives that any company can sell, or that any institution can hold.
 The initiative was well received by senior Democrats in Congress with jurisdiction over the issue. The proposal had been expected, but some lawmakers, impatient with the pace of the new administration's efforts, had begun moving ahead themselves. 
 Hinting at a lobbying campaign to come, Robert Pickel, the chief executive of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, a trade group, said his organization ''looked forward to working with policy makers to ensure these reforms help preserve the widespread availability of swaps and other important risk management tools.''
 But some in the financial industry say that regulation is inevitable. ''Nobody is in a 'just say no' mode,'' said Steven A. Elmendorf, a former aide to the House Democratic leadership who represents several major financial institutions and groups. ''Everybody understands that we've been through a financial crisis and that change has to happen. And the only question is how the change happens.''
 The administration is seeking the repeal of major portions of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act, a law adopted in December 2000 that made sure that derivative instruments would remain largely unregulated. 
 The law came about after heavy lobbying from Wall Street and the financial industry, and was pushed hard by Democrats and Republicans alike. It was endorsed at the time by the Treasury secretary, Lawrence H. Summers, who is now President Obama's top economic adviser.
 At the time, the derivatives market was relatively small. But it soon exploded, and the face value of all derivatives contracts across the world -- a measure that counts the value of a derivative's underlying assets -- outstanding at the end of last year totaled more than $680 trillion, according to the Bank for International Settlements in Switzerland. The market for credit-default swaps -- a form of insurance that protects debtholders against default -- stood around $38 trillion, according to the international swaps group. That represents the total amount of insurance that has been written on various kinds of debt, but the amount that would have to be paid out if the debt went into default is considerably less. 
 As the credit crisis has unfolded, trading in credit-default swaps has cooled, market participants said. The collapse of A.I.G. took a huge player out of the market and banks, hobbled by losses, have curbed their activities in the market. Still, derivatives trading desks have been profit centers at major banks recently.
 The biggest banks and brokerage firms, including JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup and Goldman Sachs, as well as major insurers, are all major players in derivatives. 
 Derivatives are hard to value. They are virtually hidden from investors, analysts and regulators, even though they are one of Wall Street's biggest profit engines. They do not trade openly on public exchanges, and financial services firms disclose few details about them. The new rules are meant to change most, but not all, of that opacity.
 Used properly, they can reduce or transfer risk, limit the damage from market uncertainty and make global trade easier. Airlines, food companies, insurers, exporters and many other companies use derivatives to protect themselves from sudden and unpredictable changes in financial markets like interest rate or currency movements. Used poorly, derivatives can backfire and spread risk rather than contain it.
 The administration plan would not require that custom-made derivative instruments -- those with unique characteristics negotiated between companies -- be traded on exchanges or through clearinghouses, though standardized ones would. The plan would require the development of timely reports of trades, similar to the system for corporate bonds.
 The letter suggested that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission would play a leading role in the oversight of the market, although it would also leave important elements to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Over the years, the turf battle between those agencies contributed to the neglect of that market by government overseers. 
 Some lawmakers in the House and Senate have already introduced measures to regulate derivatives. But a number of members have pressed the administration to put out its own plan. 
 Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee that oversees the S.E.C., and Representative Collin C. Peterson of Minnesota, chairman of the House Agriculture Committee with oversight of the commodities trading commission, released a joint statement saying, ''we agree there must be strong, comprehensive and consistent regulation'' of derivatives. ''We will work closely together to achieve that goal,'' they added. 
 While derivatives regulation will be a focus of some market players, of equal concern to many in the financial industry are what the Obama administration and Congress might do to regulate compensation for executives across the board, not just at institutions that have accepted federal bailout money.
 The Treasury is acting on two paths. First, it plans as soon as next week to announce revised compensation rules for companies getting assistance, to make those rules conform with a law Congress passed in February that was more stringent than the Treasury's own guidelines.
 Separately, Treasury officials have just begun discussing with the Federal Reserve and the S.E.C. what the government can do industrywide -- through incentives, restrictions or a mix of the two -- to guard against eye-popping compensation that rewards excessive risk-taking of the sort that contributed to the current crisis.
 The fear among many in the industry -- and some in the administration -- is that whatever limits Mr. Obama proposes, Congress will seek to add even more, in response to public anger. 
 In addition to the regulatory changes it is seeking, the administration is also continuing to expand its bailout programs for various industries. Mr. Geithner announced on Wednesday that the administration would provide a new round of capital assistance to smaller community banks, and would increase the amount that they can borrow from the program.
 Beyond derivatives, he also said that the administration would be presenting a comprehensive proposal to overhaul the regulation of the financial system. He said a central goal would be to eliminate the ability of companies to pick the least onerous regulator.
 ''We need a much simpler financial oversight structure,'' he said. ''It's not going to be comfortable for everybody but it's important to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, at a banking industry meeting on Wednesday. He is seeking new regulations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN McNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (94%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); FUTURES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); COMMODITIES TRADING (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (88%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



500 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Drops Plan to Auction Landing Slots at 3 Airports

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
The United States Department of Transportationhas canceled a plan to auction landing slots at New York City's three airports, officials announced on Wednesday, bringing an end to a widely criticized effort by the Bush administration to use market incentives to reduce congestion and delays. 
 ''We're still serious about tackling aviation congestion in the New York region,'' Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in Manhattan on Wednesday in remarks to the Association for a Better New York. ''I'll be talking with airline, airport and consumer stakeholders, as well as elected officials, over the summer about the best ways to move forward.''
 In April 2008, the Bush administration proposed auctioning landing slots at La Guardia Airport, and in May, it proposed selling slots at Kennedy Airport and Newark Liberty International Airport as well. The idea was to use market principles to ration a scarce commodity, the right to land in the New York area. The Bush administration also capped operations at all three airports.
 Democrats vowed to fight the plan, as did trade groups representing the airline industry. So did the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which runs the airports and which threatened to block the auctions, prompting the Bush administration to threaten to cut off aid.
 The auction plan got the support of the Bloomberg administration last August, and in October, the Department of Transportation formally published rules that would allow the auctions to move forward. Mr. LaHood on Wednesday announced the rescinding of those rules.
 ''In proposing to rescind the auctions, the department noted that the rule-making was highly controversial and that most of those filing comments opposed the slot auctions,'' the Transportation Department said in a statement. ''The department also noted that circumstances have changed since the rules were issued, including changes in the economy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); AIRLINES (78%); AIRPORT OPERATION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PORT AUTHORITIES (78%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (68%)

PERSON: RAY LAHOOD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



501 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Considers Financial Pay Rules

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY and ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Obama administration officials are contemplating a major overhaul of the compensation practices in the financial services industry, moving beyond banks to include more loosely regulated hedge funds and private equity firms. 
 Federal policymakers have been discussing ways to ensure that pay is more closely linked to performance. 
 Among the ideas under consideration are incorporating compensation as a ''safety and soundness'' concern on official bank examinations as well as expanding the existing regulatory powers of the Securities and Exchange Commission and Federal Reserve to obtain more information regarding compensation. The policymakers are also expected to publish formal guidelines regarding Wall Street pay.
 Any overhaul is likely to be tied to the Obama administration's broader efforts to curb systemic risks to the economy. That means the new rules could apply to financial firms like hedge funds or private equity firms that never accepted money from the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP. It would also mean greater oversight on compensation for banks that are seeking to return the TARP money in an effort to avoid the new strings attached to pay.
 Administration officials have been contemplating broad-based pay reforms since early this year. In February, the Treasury Department was instructed to write detailed guidelines to the new executive pay rules for banks accepting TARP money, rules that were inserted at the 11th hour into the economic stimulus bill. 
 But the effort was apparently put off after the furor over bonuses at the insurance giant American International Group in March. 
 Financial policymakers had hoped for things to cool down, and have also been preoccupied with a number of other issues, including the highly-anticipated stress tests for the nation's biggest banks. Just as the tests aimed to give the markets more clarity on the financial condition of the banks, the compensation guidelines may be designed to give the market more clarity over pay.
 Wall Street pay has long been a hot-button issue in Washington, but the public outrage over excessive compensation has erupted in recent weeks.
 Bank executives have been pressing for more clarity on the pay issue, fearful that talented managers and traders might flee their companies for overseas institutions and boutique firms. But President Obama and lawmakers on both parties have been looking for ways to rein in excessive pay packages and make sure that compensation does not encourage them to take more risk.
 Treasury officials have said new executive compensation rules could be released shortly, with some bankers and lawmakers expecting them to be formally released before the Memorial Day recess. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (87%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); INSURANCE (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



502 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: New Commander for Afghanistan

 BODY:
The war in Afghanistan is not going well. And President Obama has the right to choose his own top commander. We hope that his decision this week to fire Gen. David McKiernan and replace him with Lt. Gen. Stanley McChrystal means that the president and his team have come up with a strategy that will combine aggressive counterinsurgency tactics with economic development. That is the only chance for turning around a must-win war that America isn't winning. 
 We also hope that General McChrystal, who is an expert in special operations, will do a better job at limiting the number of civilian casualties that are helping to drive more Afghans into the Taliban camp. 
 Continued Taliban gains would bring even greater suffering to the Afghan people. It would also mean wider sanctuaries for terrorists plotting attacks against the United States and Europe and even greater instability in Pakistan. General McChrystal, a hard-driving and talented officer, impressed his superiors during his five years running Special Operations commando missions in Afghanistan and Iraq. That's a strong resume. But other qualities are needed as well. 
 Success in Afghanistan will also require effective training for the Afghan Army and police forces so they can stand on their own, strengthened local institutions and an effort to rein in the officially condoned corruption and drug trafficking that have turned so many Afghans against their own national and local governments. And it will require skillful diplomacy with other NATO generals to ensure the best use of tens of thousands of allied troops in Afghanistan and with Pakistani military leaders who must do a lot more to deny cross-border sanctuaries and infiltration routes to Taliban fighters. 
 General McKiernan does not deserve the blame for the dismal military situation in Afghanistan. The Taliban had been gaining ground long before he took charge, in large measure because the Bush administration -- focused on its misguided war in Iraq -- failed for so many years to invest adequate troops, resources or attention to the Afghan fight. 
 General McKiernan publicly argued that many more American troops were needed. He was right, and more are on the way. But that apparently wasn't enough for either Defense Secretary Robert Gates or for the top American regional commander, Gen. David Petraeus. 
 The challenges now fall to General McChrystal, whose impressive military reputation rests in part on such stunning exploits as the capture of Saddam Hussein and the location and killing of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the leader of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia. Both were carried out by special forces under his command. 
 Less impressively, some of his commando units were implicated in abusive interrogations of Iraqi prisoners. And it was General McChrystal who approved the falsified report that covered up the 2004 friendly-fire death of Cpl. Pat Tillman in Afghanistan. 
 These issues came at the time of his confirmation last year for his present job as director of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Before confirming him in his new command, senators must assure themselves that he has learned the hard lessons from these mistakes and will insist on lawful treatment of detainees and candid military reporting. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); ARMIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); AL-QAEDA (69%); CORRUPTION (65%); APPROVALS (62%); POLICE FORCES (53%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (50%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (79%); DAVID PETRAEUS (78%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); ROBERT M GATES (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); EUROPE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



503 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1331 words

PERSON: L. William Seidman 

HEADLINE: L. William Seidman, 88, Who Led F.D.I.C. During Savings and Loan Crisis, Dies

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN; Alan Krauss, who died in March, contributed reporting.

 BODY:
L. William Seidman, a plain-talking accountant whose credibility and unflinching stance in political skirmishes helped him transform the unglamorous job of chief banking regulator into one of the most powerful positions in Washington, died Wednesday in Albuquerque. He was 88. 
 The cause was complications from pneumonia, his son, Tom, said. 
 Mr. Seidman worked for Presidents Gerald R. Ford, Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush, but it was his tenure as chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation from 1985 to 1991 that defined his career. Then as now, the financial system confronted an alarming mountain of loans gone bad, the leftovers of a period of speculative excess in real estate. Under Mr. Seidman's supervision, the F.D.I.C. closed hundreds of failed banks and savings associations as it attended to a debacle that cost taxpayers roughly $200 billion. 
 He was so effective in stanching the damage that he was appointed the first chairman of the Resolution Trust Corporation, an entity created in 1989 to partly recoup taxpayer losses from the savings and loan crisis. The entity liquidated bad loans, junk bonds and failed real estate ventures left behind by defunct financial institutions. 
 On Capitol Hill, Mr. Seidman used refreshing candor to cultivate rapport with lawmakers, dispensing unvarnished appraisals of the perils menacing the financial system. And an acerbic sense of humor -- reporters were quick to seize on his frequent one-liners -- helped him survive as the bearer of bad tidings amid a rising tide of red ink.
 During a single week in August 1990, as the S.& L. crisis neared its peak, Mr. Seidman appeared before the House Banking Committee on a Monday to proclaim that the bailout effort would cost $100 billion in 1991, more than double the amount expected a few months earlier. The next day, he told the Senate Banking Committee that the F.D.I.C.'s insurance reserves faced a $2 billion drain -- a figure that grew to $4.1 billion before the year was out. A mere two days later, he was back in front of the Senate committee explaining that fraud had played a role in more than half of the 500-plus savings and loan institutions that had failed at that point. 
 Despite his relentless trumpeting of bad news, Mr. Seidman -- a Republican appointed by President Reagan in 1985 -- was warmly received by legislators on both sides of the aisle. 
 ''One of the bright spots in this whole mess has been Mr. Seidman,'' Charles E. Schumer, then a Democratic Representative from Brooklyn and now New York's senior senator, told The New York Times in 1990.
 But Mr. Seidman's eagerness to elaborate on the extent of the financial crisis drew little applause from the White House, where the Bush administration mounted an unsuccessful effort to push him out of his job in 1990, nominating a successor 18 months before his term had expired. 
 Mr. Seidman rallied dozens of Congressional supporters and served out his term. He successfully resisted a proposal to fold the federal deposit insurance program into the Treasury Department. 
 The flip side of his enmity with the Bush administration was the reputation that Mr. Seidman gained as a champion of the interests of bank depositors. He stymied a 1989 Treasury Department proposal that the government recoup the costs of the savings and loan bailouts by charging depositors through higher premiums on deposit insurance. 
 ''Instead of the bank giving you a toaster, you give them one with your deposit,'' Mr. Seidman famously said of the plan to the White House chief of staff, John H. Sununu, in 1989. 
 After leaving the F.D.I.C. in October 1991, Mr. Seidman embarked on a news media career, becoming chief commentator for the financial television network CNBC and publisher of a magazine, Bank Director.
 Mr. Seidman drew on his experiences at the helm of the F.D.I.C. to offer insights on the current financial crisis. In a column in The Wall Street Journal on Friday, Mr. Seidman expressed confidence that the current F.D.I.C. overseer, Sheila C. Bair, could expand her staff to supervise anticipated auctions of bad assets. 
 ''But take it from someone who has been at least partially there,'' Mr. Seidman wrote. ''It isn't going to be easy. And it has to be done fast.''
 Lewis William Seidman (pronounced SEED-man) was born April 29, 1921, in East Grand Rapids, Mich., the son of Frank E. Seidman, an immigrant from Russia who became wealthy as a founder of Seidman & Seidman, an accounting firm that specialized in audits and taxes. His mother, the former Ester Lubetsky, was a Michigan native of Lithuanian descent.
 Mr. Seidman graduated from Dartmouth College in 1943 with a B.A. in economics and joined the Navy. He served as an ensign in the Pacific during World War II, earning a Bronze Star and 11 battle stars. He then earned a law degree from Harvard and an M.B.A. from the University of Michigan.
 Mr. Seidman joined the family firm in 1949, becoming a full partner five years later and its national managing partner in 1968. He oversaw an expansion that transformed the firm into one of the nation's 10 largest accounting businesses. 
 In 1958, he formed a committee to explore starting a liberal arts college in Grand Rapids, later securing a state charter for what is today Grand Valley State University, which opened its doors in 1963. Mr. Seidman was board chairman for 12 years. 
 In 1962, he joined the ticket of George Romney, then a Republican candidate for governor, to run for Michigan state auditor general. Mr. Romney won, but Mr. Seidman narrowly lost, despite strong support from Mr. Ford, then a popular Congressman. Mr. Seidman worked for Mr. Romney as special assistant for economic affairs and was finance chairman for his short-lived presidential bid in 1968. 
 In February 1974, Mr. Seidman went to work for Mr. Ford, then the vice president, in a temporary assignment as management and budget consultant. When Mr. Ford became president in August of that year, Mr. Seidman was named executive director of his Economic Policy Board and served as the president's assistant for economic affairs until 1977. 
 His longtime friendship with Mr. Ford gave Mr. Seidman an unusual degree of access; he played an important advisory role in major initiatives, including transportation deregulation, anti-inflation legislation and tax policy.
 Mr. Seidman left Washington in 1977 to become vice chairman and chief financial officer of the Phelps Dodge Corporation. In 1982, he became dean of the business school at Arizona State University in Tempe, where he remained until 1985. 
 In 1983 and 1984, Mr. Seidman was a chairman of a productivity commission appointed by Mr. Reagan; the post led to a book, ''Productivity: The American Advantage,'' written with Steven L. Skancke and published in 1990. His second book, ''Full Faith and Credit,'' published in 1993, recounted his experiences during the savings industry bailout.
 In addition to his son, Tom, of Los Angeles, Mr. Seidman is survived by his wife, Sally, the former Sarah Marshall Berry; five daughters, Tracy, of Wagon Mound, N.M.; Sarah, of Middlesex, Vt.; Carrie of Albuquerque, N.M.; Meg Williams of Red Lodge, Mont.; and Robin Volock of Corrales, N.M.; 11 grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter.
 Mr. Seidman thought of himself as an artist at heart. He made mobiles for friends and family, drawing inspiration from Alexander Calder. Mr. Seidman met Mr. Calder when the city of Grand Rapids commissioned the artist to create a monumental public work, ''La Grande Vitesse,'' installed in 1969.
 Mr. Seidman recalled that he had hoped to visit the artist's studio, but Mr. Calder hesitated.
 ''He said he had been worried about inviting me to his studio, because I'd see how he did his work,'' Mr. Seidman said. ''But after he saw my mobiles, he decided it was O.K. if I came to visit. I guess he didn't consider me a threat. But then again, he hasn't seen my latest work.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 15, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Thursday about L. William Seidman, former head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, misstated his position on the productivity commission appointed by President Ronald Reagan in the early 1980s. He was the commission's co-chairman, not its official chairman, which was William E. Simon, former secretary of the Treasury. (Some accounts described Mr. Seidman as the working chairman.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: L. William Seidman, right, with Alan Greenspan, former Federal Reserve chairman, in 1991. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANK FAILURES (92%); SAVINGS & LOANS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BAILOUTS (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (69%); PNEUMONIA (57%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (52%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (85%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (85%)

RONALD REAGAN (89%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



504 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: Mississippi: Barbour Signs Cigarette Tax

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Gov. Haley Barbour, a Republican and a former tobacco lobbyist long opposed to raising Mississippi's cigarette tax, relented in the face of slumping budget revenues and signed the state's first increase in nearly a quarter century. The state's 18-cents-a-pack excise tax had not changed since 1985. On Friday, it rises to 68 cents a pack. Mississippi becomes the latest state to make smokers pay more to increase finances during a recession. Mr. Barbour signed the legislation as Mississippi struggles with an estimated revenue shortfall of $400 million for the year that ends June 30. The tax is estimated to generate more than $113 million for the year that begins July 1. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOBACCO PRODUCTS (91%); LOBBYING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); EXCISE TAX (88%); SMOKING (88%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (85%)

PERSON: HALEY BARBOUR (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



505 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: Losing Homes In the Wait For a Rescue

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD; Ashley Southall contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The Obama administration's plan to help millions of troubled homeowners avoid foreclosure by reducing the size of their mortgage payments is just getting off the ground.
 So far, two months after the program went into effect, about 55,000 homeowners have been extended loan modification offers, according to a senior administration official. At the same time, foreclosures continue apace. RealtyTrac reported Wednesday that foreclosure filings reached 342,000 last month, up 32 percent from April 2008. Moody's has estimated that more than 2.1 million homeowners will lose their homes this year. 
 Because of the size and complexity of the modification program, the administration has only recently assembled most of the pieces. In late April, officials fleshed out their plan to modify or forgive second mortgages -- one of the big stumbling blocks in modifying primary mortgages -- and provided more details on the Hope for Homeowners program, for borrowers who owe more than their homes are worth. Congress is close to acting on legislation to protect mortgage servicers from potential lawsuits from investors, while also expanding the Federal Housing Administration's ability to modify loans.
 The banks, too, are just now beginning to get their mortgage modification machines up and running. 
 While it is still too early to know how effective the program will ultimately be, many homeowners who have tried to gain entrance say they have been successful only through persistence -- and sometimes, the help of a lawyer. 
 What may be a larger issue, however, is the continuing deterioration of the economy, experts say. The longer it takes to set the program in motion, they say, the fewer people will qualify for modifications. The expected rise in unemployment in coming months may keep a growing number of homeowners out of the program.
 ''We have a debt crisis, and mortgage is at the center of it,'' said Alan M. White, an assistant professor at Valparaiso University School of Law in Indiana who specializes in foreclosures. ''To get out of it, we need to reduce the debt, and that is not really happening.''
 The administration remains confident that the program will end up offering help to as many as three million to four million homeowners, with the pace of modifications beginning to pick up in coming months.
 ''If you think about the context and scale involved, it is an extraordinary, rapid effort,'' said Jenni Engebretsen, a Treasury spokeswoman. She noted that 14 mortgage servicers had signed up for the program, covering 75 percent of the market.
 A vibrant mortgage modification program is a necessary bulwark against the wave of foreclosures. Without it, housing prices will continue their downward spiral longer, said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com.
 ''It prolongs the economic agony,'' he said. ''The pain will not go away until foreclosures subside.'' 
 Mr. Zandi was not as optimistic that the program would help as many as the administration expects. He estimated it would end up assisting only 1.5 million to 2 million homeowners over the next few years. Even so, he added, the program will, in the end, ''make a meaningful difference.'' 
 The Obama plan aims to lower monthly payments to 31 percent of the borrower's gross income by reducing interest rates to as low as 2 percent, extending the loan term or deferring principal. Mortgage servicers can reduce principal but are not required to. 
 The mortgage modifications to date have come in various forms, but some have not reduced monthly payments and most have not reduced the balance owed -- crucial for people who owe more than their homes are worth. Still, the number of loan modifications with lower payments has increased in recent months, an encouraging sign. 
 In April, 59 percent of loan modifications reduced payments, 29 percent increased payments and 12 percent of modifications kept payments steady, according to Professor White at Valparaiso. Borrowers with loan modifications that have not cut their payments tend to default again within six to 12 months.
 To persuade mortgage servicers and investors to sign on to mortgage modifications, Democrats originally sought legislation that would have given bankruptcy judges the power to reduce primary mortgages. The threat of a principal reduction in bankruptcy would have served as a stick to have modifications done outside court, experts said. But the measure failed in the Senate last week after intense lobbying by the banking industry. 
 Several experts said reducing the amount of principal would go a long way toward helping borrowers who owe more than a home is worth -- those informally known as under water.
 ''Even if they do drop your loan payment, you can still be in deep negative equity, which is not an immediate crisis,'' said Adam J. Levitin, an associate professor at Georgetown University Law Center. ''But let's say you need to relocate because the auto manufacturer you work for is radically downsizing. You are faced with losing your house in foreclosure or a huge balloon payment. And neither of those is palatable.'' 
 ''If you don't want all of the spillover effects from foreclosure, you have to keep people in their houses,'' he added.
 But the modifications may not be enough for the underwater homeowners. ''In many ways, we are kicking the can down the road,'' Mr. Zandi said. ''Many of these homeowners are under tremendous amounts of financial pressure, and they have significant negative equity positions. Lowering their mortgage debt-to-income ratio helps, but it doesn't solve their problem in a significant way and many will redefault in the future.''
 About 15.4 million borrowers, 20 percent of single-family homeowners, are underwater, up from 13.6 million at the end of last year, according to Moody's. Being underwater is one of the biggest indicators of default, experts said. 
 The administration tries to address the problems of the underwater homeowners through its Hope for Homeowners refinancing program. In its previous incarnation, the program was deemed a failure after it produced only about 50 new loans. 
 Under the new initiative, mortgage servicers are required to vet borrowers for Hope for Homeowners after they have qualified for a trial loan modification. If borrowers are qualified, they refinance into new loans through the Federal Housing Administration. Mortgage investors must accept a write-down on their investment and the government backs the new loan.
 Despite the federal backing, lenders must also be willing to make the new loans, said Rod Dubitsky, a mortgage analyst at Credit Suisse. 
 Many homeowners, consumer advocates say, do not even know they are eligible for a modification. Others may think they are eligible, but have to navigate a maze of rules and bureaucracies. 
 Amy and Robert Darr, of Coshocton, Ohio, for instance, fell behind on their payments in October after Robert's hours were cut; he is a maintenance worker at a foundry. They tried to catch up on their payments when they received their tax refund, but by that time the couple had received a foreclosure notice. They contacted their lender to see if they would qualify for a loan modification, and provided the lender with the required paperwork. 
 But CitiMortgage refused to suspend the foreclosure proceedings. Citigroup declined to comment.
 ''Hopefully, we will qualify,'' Mrs. Darr said, ''because I don't want to lose my home.'' 
 The couple contacted Southeastern Ohio Legal Services, which filed a motion with the local court to suspend the foreclosure and is currently waiting for a response.
 ''The right hand doesn't know what the left hand is doing,'' said Melissa Benson, a staff lawyer with the legal services organization. ''Most people who get foreclosure complaints don't even know how to put up a fight at all. And they lose fairly quickly.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A home in Antioch, Calif., last week. There were 342,000 foreclosures nationwide in April, according to RealtyTrac, a 32 percent increase compared with April 2008.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES)
Homeowners protested foreclosures in Elmont, N.Y., last month. The federal mortgage modification plan would help those who owe more on their homes than the homes are worth.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANNON STAPLETON/REUTERS)(pg. B4)
DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
CHART: Losing More Homes: Foreclosure notices rose to 342,038 in April. These filings include default notices, auction sale notices and bank repossessions.(Source: RealtyTrac)
 CHART: Gearing Up to Modify Mortgages: The Treasury Department expects to contribute at least $15 billion to mortgage lenders, including the nation's largest banks, as part of the Making Home Affordable program. These incentive payments will be allocated among servicers, borrowers and investors. Additional lenders are expected to participate.(Source: Treasury)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (92%); FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (78%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); SECOND MORTGAGES (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); LAWYERS (68%); LITIGATION (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%) INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



506 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 447 words

 BODY:
TAKING AIM AT DERIVATIVES The Obama administration asked Congress to move quickly on legislation that would give the White House new authority over derivatives. It was a step toward overhauling financial regulation and increasing transparency in the trading of exotic instruments. 
 FRUGAL WAYS OF NORWAY Despite the poor economic conditions around the globe, Norway has bucked the trend. Its economy grew by close to 3 percent last year, and its ledger is entirely free of debt. [A1.] 
 BRITAIN'S SOBER ASSESSMENT Britain's recovery will probably be ''slow and protracted,'' its central bank said, and its leader, Mervyn King, left, said that banks were still reluctant to lend. [A4.] 
 SPOTLIGHT ON VIOXX A class-action lawsuit over the strategies that Merck used to market its painkiller Vioxx in Australia is earning the American drug maker some bad publicity, but the company is fighting the suit to stand behind its conviction that it acted responsibly. [B1.] 
 CRAIGSLIST CRACKDOWN Craigslist said that it would close its erotic services category and replace it with a new section that would be monitored by employees for indications of illegal activity. [B1.] 
 MORTGAGE PROGRAM Two months after a program from the Obama administration began to help millions of Americans avoid foreclosure, about 55,000 homeowners are enrolled. [B1.] 
 E.U. FINES INTEL The European Commission fined Intel a record $1.45 billion, saying that it had abused its dominance in the computer chip market to exclude its major rival, Advanced Micro Devices. Intel said it would appeal the decision. [B8.] 
 Advanced Micro Devices cheered the European Union's ruling against Intel, but the history of antitrust cases against big technology companies suggests that little will change in the marketplace. [B1.] 
 A.I.G. ASKS FOR PATIENCE The chairman of the American International Group, Edward M. Liddy, said that the company needed three to five years to overhaul itself and fully repay tens of billions of dollars in bailout money. [B4.] 
 OUTPUT IN CHINA SLOWS Industrial production in China rose 7.3 percent in April from a year earlier, less than had been expected and well below the double-digit growth rates the country had posted for the last few years. [B10.] 
 L'OREAL LOSES SUIT A French court rejected a claim from the cosmetics company L'Oreal that eBay was profiting from sales of counterfeit perfumes. The court said eBay had made reasonable efforts to keep fake goods off its site. [B10.] 
 VERIZON SELLS UNITS Verizon Communications has agreed to sell divisions that offer service to 4.8 million phone lines in 14 states to Frontier Communications, tripling its size. [B6.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); LITIGATION (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (88%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); FORECLOSURE (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (74%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (74%); CLASS ACTIONS (74%); TOILETRIES MFG (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); COSMETICS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); COMPUTER CHIPS (65%); MICROPROCESSORS (65%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (91%); L'OREAL SA (83%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (65%); CRAIGSLIST INC (56%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (54%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (91%); OR (PAR) (83%); OR (BIT) (83%); AIG (NYSE) (65%); 8685 (TSE) (65%); AMD (NYSE) (54%); AMD (FRA) (54%); VZC (LSE) (51%); VZ (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (65%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (65%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); EDWARD M LIDDY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORWAY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



507 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Investment Banker to Run City Housing Authority

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
A former Wall Street investment banker with no public housing experience has been selected to lead the New York City Housing Authority, a sprawling bureaucracy struggling to overcome a financial crisis and a lingering controversy over elevator safety. 
 At City Hall on Wednesday, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg introduced the agency's new chairman, John B. Rhea, the former managing director of the Lehman Brothers global consumer retail group. He has also been an executive at JPMorgan Chase, where he completed more than $50 billion worth of transactions overseeing corporate finance as well as mergers and acquisitions, city officials said. 
 Such credentials, the mayor said, will help ensure the long-term fiscal stability of an agency that has a current operating budget deficit of $45.1 million. The city's public housing system, the largest in the country, has been reeling in recent years from a lack of government financial support. 
 Among those critical of the mayor's choice were five City Council members who said that at such a crucial time for the agency, a chairman with proven experience in affordable housing management was needed. They also expressed disappointment that council members were not consulted in the selection.
 The mayor said, however, said that the agency's challenges stemmed from financing and management, and that bringing in someone with extensive management experience in the private sector made sense.
 ''I think now more than ever, Nycha needs innovative and accountable leadership to ensure that these vital resources are put to the best possible use,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. 
 The agency has been led in recent months by an interim chairman, Ricardo Elias Morales, who took over when Tino Hernandez stepped down in December after seven years to run a nonprofit drug treatment organization. The mayor's office conducted a six-month nationwide search for a replacement. 
 Mr. Rhea, who grew up in Detroit and received an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School, said that although he does not have housing experience, he does have a ''20-year track record of performing at a very highly competitive environment.''
 He added: ''Public housing continues to be a critical component of the affordable housing equation. It most certainly has kept New York City accessible to many low- and moderate-income families. I'm keenly aware of the challenges facing public housing today and the need to ensure this vital resource, each and every unit, remains available for all New Yorkers in the future.''
 Mr. Rhea acknowledged that elevator problems were one of the critical issues.
 In August, a 5-year-old boy fell 10 stories to his death after trying to escape a stalled elevator at a Brooklyn public housing complex. The accident focused new attention on the upkeep and oversight of the agency's 3,300 elevators. Managers have said that they have made a number of elevator improvements since then, but elevator breakdowns remain commonplace at many buildings. 
 Gregory Floyd, president of Local 237 of the Teamsters, representing 8,000 Housing Authority workers, said he was impressed with Mr. Rhea's background.
 But Councilwoman Rosie Mendez of Manhattan, the chairwoman of the Council's Public Housing Subcommittee, said she was disappointed with the administration's handling of the selection process. She said that the mayor's office never sought her input on Mr. Rhea, and that she had been impressed with Mr. Morales's performance. Of Mr. Rhea, she said, ''All I see is a Wall Street person with an investment banking background and with no experience in housing management or development.'' 
 A spokeswoman for the mayor defended the selection and said input from several council members was sought in January. ''The mayor strongly believes that Chairman Rhea brings the financial skills and expertise to the job to help the authority during particularly challenging times for public housing,'' said the spokeswoman, Dawn Walker.
 Mr. Rhea will be heading the agency at a critical time. Years of shortfalls in Congressional appropriations have led to hundreds of jobs being eliminated, community centers being shuttered and rents increasing for the highest-income households. 
 Mr. Rhea will become, in effect, the city's biggest landlord, overseeing 178,000 apartments in 2,600 buildings at 340 complexes. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Janssen Rhea, 7, snaps a picture of his father, John B. Rhea, as he is introduced as the head of the New York City Housing Authority. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (91%); PUBLIC HOUSING (91%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MERGERS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); FAMILY (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (55%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



508 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; DRESS CODES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: When No One Wants to Look Like a Banker

BYLINE: By DAVID COLMAN

 BODY:
SINCE last September -- you know, when bleakonomics ousted chiconomics -- most of us have put ourselves and our Visa bills through a painstaking, pain-making review. From flashy extravagances like Range Rovers and diamonds to low-profile upgrades like business-class air travel and Starbucks coffee confections, every line item on the modern luxury list has come up for withering review.
 So you would assume that the relentlessly tweaked wardrobe of the modern urban man would be high on the watch list. The fedoras, the vests, the striped shirts, the ankle-baring suits, the premium jeans -- doesn't it all seem a little ... prelapsarian? 
 Well, no. It seems they are cushioning the fall. 
 What has landed on the slag heap of style is the old three-button power suit: slickly conservative, oversize and overpriced, worn with a boxy white shirt and a wide silk tie. It was all, as GQ's creative director, Jim Moore, put it, ''too big and too bold in all the wrong places.'' Not so long ago, that ensemble blared of Wall Street success. Now, with public sentiment against financial institutions still high, racks of expensive Italian beauties languish in shops across the country.
 While double-digit declines have hit much of the retail sector, one of the few pieces of good news is one of the most surprising. In a reversal of every recession in the last 100 years, figures show that men have not cut back on buying clothes as much as women have. They're not buying power suits -- they're replacing them. 
 ''I have guys coming in here saying, 'I don't want to look like a banker anymore,' '' said Eric Goldstein, an owner of Jean Shop, a premium denim store in the meatpacking district. He is now dispensing advice on how to look like a ''creative professional.''
 The new look is still professional enough for work, even a business lunch. But it is quirky and cool enough to suggest that you haven't spent the last decade lounging in the old boys' room inhaling cigar smoke and default swaps. 
 Just peruse the 25 candidates in Esquire's ''Best Dressed Real Man'' online contest or the current cover of GQ, with Zac Efron in a trim navy suit, blue gingham shirt and black knit tie, and you will get the gist. Culled from all over the department store, this as-yet-unnamed wardrobe takes pieces of sporty country-club clothing, traditional business attire and off-hours favorites like premium jeans and high-top sneakers. ''Business casual'' is too corporate a designation, too 50-something. You might call it the Friday wardrobe, given how appropriate it is for wearing to work on Friday morning, then out Friday night.
 ''The banker suit is definitely dead,'' said Euan Rellie, an investment banker in New York. The market's uncertainty, Mr. Rellie said, has voided former rules about dress. ''You used to wear a uniform to work because you wanted to give yourself a certain authority, but that doesn't necessarily convey that now. I was in a meeting the other day with five people, and they were all dressed entirely different. And because there isn't a dress code, you have to think about what you wear.''
 Man Friday certainly has plenty of choices. The look he has gravitated to is not in itself new; it represents a refinement of trends that men have picked up on in the last three or four years. Slim suits. Oxford cotton shirts. Skinny wool ties. Fine-gauge cardigans. Seersucker. Madras.
 ''Fashion didn't stop this year, and it didn't change,'' said Tommy Fazio, the men's fashion director of Bergdorf Goodman. ''It's the preppy chic these guys have been into, and they're just refining it, with the right madras, the right pair of khakis, the right cotton sport jacket.''
 Or, most emblematically, the right gingham shirt. From Brooks Brothers to Thom Browne (where GQ got Mr. Efron's cover look), good old gingham is a hit. At both of those stores, sporty-yet-elegant styles -- low-key stripes and basic checks -- have driven up sales of dress shirts over last year. The reason is simple, said Louis Amendola, the chief merchandising officer of Brooks. Such shirts look jaunty but businesslike with or without a tie. 
 Mr. Amendola echoes press officers at Prada, Gucci, Barneys New York, Bergdorf Goodman and Paul Stuart who confirm that men's business has fared better than women's. According to NPD Group, which tracks retail sales, comparison of the six months ending Feb. 29, 2008, and Feb. 28, 2009, reveals that sales of men's clothes costing more than $100 were up 4.3 percent. It is a surprising figure given the general retail anemia.
 ''This is different than anything we've ever seen before,'' said Marshal Cohen, NPD's chief analyst, who in 32 years in retail has seen many ups and downs. ''Traditionally, men's wear is the first category to head south in a tough patch. This time, guys have looked at the downturn, and said, 'I have to look the part, find ways to compete.' '' 
 And given that both men in general and men over 40 have been disproportionately hit by unemployment in the last eight months, a more youthful outlook offers a better edge on the competition than clinging to old ways of thinking, or dressing.
 ''That stodgy look is kind of dead,'' said Eric Blumencranz, an insurance broker in Manhattan, who was shopping at Bergdorf last weekend. ''I used to wear a plain white shirt. Now I'm wearing stripes and checks, and ties that are a little more fun, too.'' But, he pointed out, propriety has to come first. ''It's got to be professional, with a little style to it,'' he said. ''You can't come in in an old polo shirt and ripped jeans.''
 As usual, it boils down to attitude. ''There's still so much uncertainty in the economy that it's hard to know what outlook to have,'' said Jaime Wolf, a media lawyer in Manhattan. ''It's kind of the same with what you wear to work. I feel that the best attitude now is to be cautiously optimistic, and you could say that's the way I've been dressing.''
 For Mr. Wolf, qualified confidence means a blue blazer or a V-neck sweater, slim-cut trousers and a low-key dress shirt and tie. ''It's not the full-on go-go optimism of a business suit, but it's not the apocalyptic schlumpiness of khakis and a polo shirt.''
 Oddly, it may seem silly to change your style amid so many pressing concerns, especially when donning a suit and white shirt is far easier than trying to figure out something casual yet elegant yet sporty yet professional. Still, if a change of clothes is all you need, you're not doing so bad.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FETCHING A quirky, cool look that leaves the old boy's style far behind. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID ROEMER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E1)
1. Phineas Cole striped cotton cardigan, $447 at Paul Stuart
overdyed cotton shirt, $220 at South Willard in Los Angeles and bluebee.com
cotton denim jeans, $74 at American Apparel
Alden suede oxfords, $395 at Jeffrey New York
Fabien Baron sunglasses, $350 at fbeyewear.com. 2. Idol Radec cotton vest, $302 at Bloomingdale's
Kitsune cotton shirt, $265 at Aloha Rag
navy silk tie, $175 at Dolce & Gabbana
Phineas Cole linen herringbone trousers, $684 at Paul Stuart
Lemtosh plastic eyeglass frames, $129 at Sol Moscot. 3. Pinstripe gray rayon blazer, $2,195 at Dolce & Gabbana
Black Fleece striped cotton shirt, $150, and striped silk tie, $150, both at Brooks Brothers
cotton chino pants, $275 at Rag & Bone
web belt, $19 for three at American Apparel. 4. Trussardi linen-viscose blazer, $1,210 at Jeffrey
striped cotton shirt, $150 at Thomas Pink
Alexander Olch linen bow tie, $105 at Bergdorf Goodman. 5. Antonio Azzuolo cotton sport coat, $2,600 at Kesner
striped cotton shirt, $460 at Marc Jacobs
cotton denim jeans, $74 at American Apparel
Florsheim by Duckie Brown saddle oxfords, $295 at Barneys New York. ON THE COVER Center: Neil Barrett glen plaid wool suit, $1,760 at Jeffrey
plaid cotton shirt, $165 at Billy Reid
cotton tie, $59.50 at J. Crew
leather loafers, $335 at Calvin Klein
balmacaan gabardine trench coat, $1,340 at Marc Jacobs. Top left: Michael Bastian navy cotton pique blazer with white lapel stitching, $1,995 at Saks Fifth Avenue
brown and white striped cotton V-neck sweater, $795, and blue striped cotton shirt, $525, both at Dolce & Gabbana
Band of Outsiders gray cotton tuxedo pants, $550 at Barneys. Bottom left: Cotton khaki blazer, $1,450 at Dolce & Gabbana
short-sleeve cotton shirt, $295 at Rag & Bone
silk knit tie, $95 at Ralph Lauren
 cotton handkerchief, $25 for a seven-pack at Brooks Brothers. (pg.E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (77%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (72%); RETAILERS (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (67%)

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (74%); ZAC EFRON (50%); RALPH LAUREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



509 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: House Panel Nears Agreement on Energy and Climate Bill

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
With a series of compromises on the stickiest issues behind them, the House Energy and Commerce Committee is poised to approve far-reaching legislation on energy and global warming by the end of next week. Where it goes from there remains highly uncertain.
 President Obama on Wednesday praised the committee's ''extraordinary progress'' toward writing a bill that can survive among the panel's fractious Democrats. After a White House meeting with House leaders, Mr. Obama said that the bill as it now stands, though weaker in a number of areas than the original version introduced six weeks ago, represented a major step toward his goals of addressing climate change and reducing the nation's reliance on dirty fuels. 
 But with that modest endorsement, Mr. Obama quickly pivoted to his more immediate legislative priority, changes in health care costs and coverage, which he insisted have to be made this year. He has set no deadline for energy legislation.
 Representative Henry A. Waxman, the California Democrat who is chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, said he was eager to complete committee work on the energy bill so he could turn his attention to health care. 
 Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she intended to hold a full House vote on health care legislation by the end of July. On energy, she has said only that she hoped for a vote ''this year,'' an aide said.
 The measure before the House panel, written by Mr. Waxman and Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, now calls for a 17 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from 2005 levels by 2020; the original target was 20 percent. The long-range target, an 83 percent reduction by 2050, still stands.
 Among the most difficult discussions were those that concerned the granting of free emissions permits under the bill's cap-and-trade provisions. In the current compromise, 35 percent of all permits will be granted to local utility companies to cushion the higher costs of producing electricity in a way that emits less carbon dioxide. 
 An additional 15 percent of permits will be given to reduce costs in energy-intensive industries like steel, cement and aluminum, which face stiff international competition. 
 Three percent of permit value will go to the auto industry for work on electric and advanced-technology vehicles, although the subsidy falls to 1 percent after five years. Committee members are still negotiating the level of free allowances for petroleum refiners.
 The free allowances would be phased out over 10 to 15 years.
 Panel members also agreed to soften the original measure's mandates for the proportion of electricity production that must come from renewable sources like wind, solar or geothermal power. The first Waxman-Markey draft called for a nationwide standard of 25 percent by 2025; that has now been reduced to 15 percent by 2020, with complex exemptions for some regions and energy sources.
 Representative Rick Boucher, the Virginia Democrat who leads the so-called Brown Dog Democrats, who represent regions heavily dependent on coal for power generation, said he believed that the committee was on track to pass the bill. But he cautioned that several issues remained to be settled and that ''until everything is agreed, nothing is agreed.''
 Because of the makeup of the committee, Mr. Waxman can move his bill without any Republican support. He will probably need to: Representative Joe Barton of Texas, the senior Republican on the committee, said his 23 members were united in opposition. Mr. Barton, an outspoken skeptic on the science of climate change, predicted that even if the committee passed the bill, the full House and Senate were unlikely to act on it any time soon.
 ''It's just not a good political tactic in this kind of economy,'' he said. ''This is not the time to tackle this kind of issue.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); WIND ENERGY (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (66%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); HENRY WAXMAN (78%); EDWARD J MARKEY (58%); BETSY MARKEY (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



510 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Work Is Never Done, Obama Tells Class

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: TEMPE, Ariz. 

 BODY:
President Obama traveled Wednesday to the university that does not think he has done enough to merit an honorary degree and declared that he agreed. 
 Mr. Obama delivered his first commencement address as president at Arizona State University, whose decision not to award him a ceremonial diploma touched off a national furor. He used the controversy to make the point that no one should be satisfied with ''the outward markers of success,'' either as individuals or as a country. 
 ''I come here not to dispute the suggestion that I haven't achieved enough in my life,'' Mr. Obama told tens of thousands of students and relatives packed into Sun Devil Stadium. ''First of all, Michelle concurs with that assessment. She has a long list of things I have not yet done waiting for me when I get home. 
 ''But more than that,'' he added, ''I come to embrace the notion that I haven't done enough in my life. I heartily concur. I come to confirm that one's title, even a title like president of the United States, says very little about how well one's life has been led -- and that no matter how much you've done, or how successful you've been, there's always more to do, always more to learn, and always more to achieve.''
 The decision not to award an honorary degree to Mr. Obama was taken by many as a snub, especially after university officials explained that ''his body of work is yet to come.'' Embarrassed university officials tried to contain the damage by renaming its most important financial aid program the President Barack Obama Scholars Program, which will benefit 1,600 freshmen this fall.
 The university's president, Michael Crow, heaped praise on Mr. Obama in introducing him on Wednesday night. ''You've lit a fire under all of us to move America forward,'' Mr. Crow said.
 Mr. Obama thanked him and called the controversy ''much ado about nothing.'' But he still aimed a barb at the university's leadership. ''President Crow and the board of regents will soon learn about being audited by the I.R.S.,'' he joked.
 Mr. Obama's commencement season schedule this year has generated more attention than most presidents receive. His plan to speak at the graduation at Notre Dame on Sunday has drawn vociferous protests from anti-abortion leaders who consider it inappropriate for him to be invited to speak at the nation's most prominent Catholic university.
 In his speech here to a stadium full of people who waited hours in temperatures hovering around 100 degrees, Mr. Obama said the degree controversy underscored that the nation needs ''a fundamental change of perspective and attitude,'' one that values substance over appearance, character over celebrity and wise investments over ''get rich quick schemes.''
 The country, he suggested, has lost its way. ''In recent years, in many ways, we've become enamored with our own success, lulled into complacency by our own achievements,'' he said, citing the economic crisis. ''We started taking shortcuts. We started living on credit, instead of building up savings. We saw businesses focus more on rebranding and repackaging than innovating and developing new ideas that improve our lives.''
 He cited Americans who ran the Underground Railroad, fought for worker rights, developed new technology and saved people caught in the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, 2001. ''A whole bunch of them didn't get honorary degrees,'' he said in an ad lib not in the released text, ''but they changed the course of history and so can you.''
 He added: ''That's what building a body of work is all about: it's about the daily labor, the many individual acts, the choices large and small that add up over time, over a lifetime, to a lasting legacy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama gave his first commencement address in office on Wednesday, at Arizona State University in Tempe. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ABORTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



511 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 INDIA'S ECONOMIC REFORMS
 Reach Fork in the Vote
 No matter which coalition of parties comes to power in India's elections -- none is expected to win a majority in Parliament -- the next stage of Indian reforms will be deeply contentious. PAGE A5
 DOZENS KILLED IN SHELLING 
 News agencies reported that at least 50 people were killed when a primary school in Sri Lanka that had been converted into a field hospital was shelled for the second day. PAGE A8
 RUSSIAN MOBSTER TRIAL
 Vladimir S. Barsukov, a leader of one of Russia's most powerful criminal syndicates, is standing trial in Moscow -- a victory for Russian authorities over a vestige of the once-powerful criminal clans. PAGE A6
 POPE VISITS WEST BANK
 In his visit to the West Bank, Pope Benedict XVI expressed solidarity with ''all the homeless Palestinians who long to be able to return to their birthplace, or live permanently in a homeland of their own.'' PAGE A10
 Hearings on Interrogations A12
 Pressing On at Afghan Outpost A5
 National
 OBAMA AIMS FOR SECRECY
 As He Mulls Court Pick
 As President Obama considers his pick for the Supreme Court seat to be vacated by Justice David H. Souter, his advisers are hoping to maintain the secrecy even during the president's consultations with the Senate. PAGE A20
 DRUG FOR SCORPION STINGS
 A clinical trial of young children stung by bark scorpions has found that most of those given an investigational drug recovered within two hours. PAGE A16
 FINAL REPAIRS FOR HUBBLE
 The space shuttle Atlantis grabbed the Hubble Space Telescope for the fifth and last of the servicing missions that have repaired, refurbished and reinvented the venerable telescope over the years. PAGE A16
 Switched at Birth 50 Years Ago A14
 New York
 MUSEUM AIMS TO HOUSE
 Decommissioned Shuttle
 The operators of the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum hope that the space shuttle Atlantis, which grabbed hold of the Hubble Space Telescope, will one day be housed at the museum. The Intrepid, itself a decommissioned aircraft carrier, is docked on a pier in the Hudson River. PAGE A22
 Business
 A.I.G. SAYS IT NEEDS
 More Time to Repay Loans
 Edward M. Liddy, the chairman of American International Group, said the company would need three to five years to carry out its restructuring plan and fully repay taxpayer bailout money. PAGE B3
 DECODING GADGET HYPE
 Sometimes the makers of consumer electronics promote features on their products so far away from what really matters, it's laughable -- and it's time somebody called them on it. David Pogue, State of the Art. PAGE B1
 VERIZON SELLS PHONE LINES
 Verizon agreed to sell divisions that offer phone service to 4.8 million phone lines in 14 states to Frontier Communications -- a move away from its heritage as a company that provides telephone service over copper wires. PAGE B6
 COOLING INVESTOR OPTIMISM
 The government reported that retail sales fell again as consumers spent less on gasoline, appliances and groceries, which prompted Wall Street investors to hammer shares of industrial producers and consumer-related businesses. PAGE B3
 Europe Fines Intel B1
 Trial Puts Spotlight on Merck B1
 Obituaries
 L. WILLIAM SEIDMAN, 88
 His credibility and unflinching stance in political skirmishes helped him transform the unglamorous job of chief banking regulator into one of the most powerful posts in Washington. PAGE B11
 ARTS
 Broadway Looks For New Ambassador
 Broadway has been pondering the loss of two spokesmen for its needs and priorities, following the November death of Gerald Schoenfeld, the theater owner, and President Obama's recent selection of Rocco Landsman, a theater producer, to run the National Endowment for the Arts. PAGE C1
 Voting for Three in 'Elliot'
 According to the Tony Awards committee, voters have to see only one of the three boys rotating in the title role of ''Billy Elliot: The Musical'' before casting their votes for all three in the leading actor in a musical category. PAGE C6
 A Rock Star and a Tyro
 Though Jim Grant, better known to readers as the bestselling author Lee Child, is the veteran novelist and his brother, Andrew Grant, is releasing only his first novel, their most recent work shares more than a passing resemblance. Janet Maslin, Books of the Times. PAGE C1
 Sonar Festival in Barcelona C7
 Poetry Jam at the White House C8
 SPORTS
 Sports Leagues May Face Economic Reckoning
 The N.B.A. and N.H.L. have enjoyed thrilling postseasons so far this spring, but is that simply the playoff electricity before the budgetcrunching storm? Harvey Araton, Sports of the Times. PAGE B12
 Tackling Depression
 Shawn Andrews, the two-time Pro Bowl offensive lineman for the Philadelphia Eagles, did something that athletes almost never do: he spoke at length about his struggles with depression. PAGE B11
 Taking Shots After Game
 After Dwight Howard, the face of the Orlando Magic, went much of the fourth quarter of its playoff game with the Boston Celtics without touching the basketball, he sharply criticized his coach, Stan Van Gundy. PAGE 11
 Home
 LEAD IS A CONCERN 
 For Urban Gardens
 Health officials, soil scientists and environmental engineers worry that the increasing popularity of gardening, particularly the urban kind, will put more people at risk for lead poisoning if they do not take precautions. PAGE D1
 Cleaning the Air in Your Home D2 
 Grading Glass Cleaners D4 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (86%); CLINICAL TRIALS (86%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (85%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (85%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CHILDREN (76%); BITES & STINGS (76%); ORGANIZED CRIME (75%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); SPACE SHUTTLE (69%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (69%); SPACECRAFT (69%); INVESTIGATIONAL DRUGS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (63%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (60%); WAR & CONFLICT (57%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (50%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%); VZC (LSE) (50%); VZ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (50%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); DAVID SOUTER (57%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (53%); EDWARD M LIDDY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) INDIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SRI LANKA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009



512 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: International Pact on Ship Recycling Wins Wide Support

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
After more than five years of negotiations, delegates from 64 countries reached a broad consensus here on Thursday on a new international agreement regulating the recycling of ships and scheduled a final meeting on Friday to approve and sign the pact.
 The dismantling of ships so that their steel and other materials can be sold as scrap is often done on or near beaches in poor countries, notably India and Bangladesh. 
 Both countries have pledged to improve working conditions and environmental practices. But activists contend that the work still kills and maims many workers each year and results in the contamination of shorelines with asbestos, oily waste, toxic paint and other dangerous materials.
 The new agreement, the International Convention for the Safe and Environmentally Sound Recycling of Ships, requires all new vessels to carry detailed inventories of hazardous materials throughout their years of service to recycling facilities. The convention also calls for workers at these centers to be equipped with a wide range of protective gear, for the centers to have disposal procedures for hazardous materials, and for emergency response plans to be prepared.
 But the pact does not require that hazardous materials be removed by specially trained workers following Western safety practices before the rest of the vessel can be cut apart -- a provision that some environmentalists and labor activists had also sought. Enforcement is left to the governments of countries with recycling centers, without an international regulatory agency.
 A wide range of countries endorsed the pact, including European nations that have pressed for tougher standards to protect workers and limit pollution in coastal environments.
 ''We are trying to stipulate certain high standard levels,'' said Anna Petersson, the head of the environment section of Sweden's Maritime Department, as she left the meeting. ''You have to start somewhere.''
 But environmental groups quickly denounced the draft agreement, negotiated under the auspices of the United Nations' International Maritime Organization, as weaker than other global environmental pacts.
 Jim Puckett, the executive director of the Basel Action Network in Seattle, came to Hong Kong for the final drafting session this week and denounced the accord for not banning the dismantling of ships on beaches instead of in dockyards.
 ''This is the most unsustainable and irresponsible practice that takes place in waste management today,'' he said.
 The politics and economics driving the agreement are complex. The United States, Belgium and Britain still have ship recycling industries that want tougher standards imposed on their competitors in poor countries. But the dismantling of ships is labor-intensive and employs many people in poor countries.
 Shipping companies, meanwhile, faced with an enormous glut of ships because of the economic downturn, are trying to sell more of the vessels for scrap and have been hostile to rules that would drive up their costs.
 The shipping industry has allied itself with countries that register large numbers of ships. Captain David J. F. Burns, the chief delegate from the Marshall Islands -- which has the world's fourth largest registry of ships, after Panama, Liberia and the Bahamas -- said he wanted an agreement that ''is not possibly too onerous; you want something that is practical, and can be implemented in a reasonable period of time.''
 Arthur Bowring, the managing director of the Hong Kong Shipowners Association, endorsed the agreement here and said, ''You can't expect them in Bangladesh to build brand new docks.''
 Even when ships are beached, he said, ''there are ways to make it environmentally friendly.''
 Mr. Puckett, however, said that the agreement undermined the Basel Convention banning the shipment of hazardous waste from industrialized countries to poor ones.
 He also criticized the agreement here for not requiring shipyards to use less hazardous materials in building ships whenever substitutes are available; the agreement instead reinforces existing bans on the use of the most toxic materials, like asbestos.
 Mr. Puckett said he would not campaign against the convention's ratification, but said he expected environmentalists to start organizing consumer boycotts of products shipped by companies that use recycling centers that continue to pollute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); ADMIRALTY LAW (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); DISASTER PLANNING (73%); ASBESTOS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); EXECUTIVES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) HONG KONG (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (69%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



513 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Art in Review

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO

 BODY:
NEW YORK INTERNATIONAL TRIBAL & TEXTILE
 Arts Show
 69th Regiment Armory
 Lexington Avenue at 26th Street
 Through Sunday
 More than 60 galleries and dealers from the United States and abroad -- significantly fewer than last year's 76 -- are installed in the 69th Regiment Armory for the 15th New York International Tribal & Textile Arts Show. Missing from the floor are some of the high-end European dealers in African art, and the English textile dealers, but there is still the usual bounty of lavish textiles, sculpture and statuary, exotic curios and jewelry.
 An emphasis on extraordinary textiles from indigenous and precolonial cultures is a hallmark of this show. It is true again this year, with outstanding Central Asian material at Gail Martin Gallery; a selection of colorful Persian and Syrian carpets and utilitarian bags at Alberto Levi; and a pair of heavily beaded Northwest Coast Indian leggings at Myers and Duncan. It is all presented with deft professionalism and backed up with some useful educational material. 
 Not too many dealers have shipped big, expensive stone sculpture, given the economy, but there are one or two monumental wooden pieces. For a reminder of the role of religion in daily life in Africa, stop by Dave DeRoche to see a late-19th-century ''rhythm pounder,'' probably Senufo, from Ivory Coast. This imposing wooden sculpture of a woman was used to pound the earth each spring to enhance the soil's fertility and ensure a good harvest. 
 As always, there is a small but fine selection of Pacific Island material. Lewis/Warra has an unusually ornate, possibly mid-19th-century Malagan ceremonial mask from New Ireland, a part of New Guinea, while the Thomas Murray display includes some top masks from the Sepik River in Papua New Guinea, one shaped like a bird's beak. They are part of a group of a dozen beautiful Oceanic carvings from a single California collection put up for sale.
 For pure fascination and enjoyment, visitors might like to check out the hand-painted wooden Egyptian sarcophagus lid, about 1069-702 B.C., at Arte Primitivo. It is in great condition. Equally enchanting is a minor retrospective of paintings by self-taught artists at Cavin-Morris, including a delightfully simple painting of a mule by Bill Traylor, the Alabama-born former slave and outsider artist, that was drawn on a Montgomery, Ala., sidewalk in the 1940s. 
 There is lots of other strange and wonderful stuff in the show, though some of it is hiding in cases, so you really have to take the time to look. Clam Galerie has a Mayan poison bottle that is close to 1,400 years old, while Kip McKesson has a carved divining staff used by a Tanzanian witch doctor to make the rain come, ward off evil spirits, see the future or even frighten enemies on the eve of battle. Who wouldn't want to hold the staff?
 Another revelation is the range and beauty of native jewelry in gold, silver, tin, shell, stone and other materials. What an obvious inclusion this material is, although there has not been so much of it at the fair in the last few years. The jewelry has an undeniable beauty, so I would not be surprised if more finds its way into future shows. Let's hope so. BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO
 The show is open from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. onFriday; 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Saturday; and 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Sunday; (212) 532-1516, caskeylees.com; $20.
 PHIL COLLINS

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Woven woolen bags used to transport wheat, made by the Bakhtiari tribe of Persia, on view at the Tribal and Textile Arts Show.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALBERTO LEVI GALLERY, MILAN, ITALY)
PHOTO: A flute mask from the lower Sepik River of Papua New Guinea.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DON TUTTLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTILES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PAINTING (78%); WITCHCRAFT (71%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (69%)

COMPANY: GAIL MARTIN GALLERY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (51%) ALABAMA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); PAPUA NEW GUINEA (92%); ITALY (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



514 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: Temasek Says It Sold Its Stake in Bank of America

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Temasek Holdings, the Singapore state-owned sovereign wealth fund that bought stakes in Merrill Lynch and Barclays amid the global financial crisis, said it had sold its stake in the Bank of America Corporation. 
 Temasek paid about $5.9 billion for a 14 percent stake in Merrill Lynch in a deal that was announced December 2007. That stake was converted into Bank of America stock following Bank of America's acquisition of Merrill.
The company declined to say how much it sold the stake for, or when the sale was conducted.
 Temasek said in February that the value of its investment portfolio fell 31 percent, or about $39 billion, from March to November, a reflection of the stock market rout set off by the turmoil surrounding American subprime mortgages.
 The investment company had sold assets including power generators and Singapore Food Industries during the last year while increasing its investments in companies like CapitaLand and DBS Group Holdings through rights offers.
 Temasek controls some of Singapore's best-known companies, including Singapore Airlines and Singapore Telecommunications, and has stakes in global companies like Standard Chartered Bank.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (70%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (52%); SUBPRIME LENDING (52%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (96%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); SINGAPORE FOOD INDUSTRIES PTE LTD (56%); DBS GROUP HOLDINGS LTD (56%); STANDARD CHARTERED AUSTRALIA LTD (55%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK ZIMBABWE LTD (55%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (55%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK (THAI) PCL (55%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (96%); BAC (LSE) (96%); 8648 (TSE) (96%); D05 (SGX) (56%); C6L (SGX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (56%); SIC5141 GROCERIES, GENERAL LINE (56%); SIC2037 FROZEN FRUITS, FRUIT JUICES, & VEGETABLES (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (55%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE (92%); UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



515 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Two Manet Paintings, Hanging Together Again

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
''The Old Musician'' and ''Ragpicker'' -- two seminal 1860s paintings by Edouard Manet -- have been seen together only once, and that was 125 years ago, in a posthumous retrospective of his work at the Ecole des Beaux Arts in Paris. 
 Now, from May 22 through Sept. 7, the National Gallery of Art in Washington, which owns ''The Old Musician,'' will be showing these canvases side by side. 
 ''Ragpicker,'' painted around 1865-1869, is being lent by the Norton Simon Museum in Pasadena, Calif. This will be the first time in nearly 30 years that it has left its California home. 
 ''The Old Musician'' was bequeathed to the National Gallery in 1962 by Chester Dale, one of its founding benefactors, with a stipulation that it never leave the museum. 
 Both works were of unknown figures in early modern Paris, and illustrate how inspired Manet was by the old master painters, particularly Velazquez. 
 The Norton Simon has only begun lending works from its collection in the last couple of years. Its board, saying it wanted the museum to become better known, sent Rembrandt's ''Portrait of a Boy in Fancy Dress'' (1655) to the National Gallery for an exhibition there, and it lent five old master paintings to the Frick Collection for an exhibition that closed this month. 
 ''The Old Musician'' has not been on view for the last two years because it was undergoing cleaning and technical examination, including x-radiography and infrared reflectography, at the National Gallery's conservation studio. 
 Curators and conservators have been particularly interested in determining the painting's relationship to an earlier canvas, ''The Absinthe Drinker,'' which dates from 1858-1859 and is in the collection of the Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek in Copenhagen. 
 ''The figure of the top-hatted man in 'The Old Musician' is an almost exact match to a similar figure in 'The Absinthe Drinker,' '' said Kimberly A. Jones, associate curator of French paintings at the National Gallery. ''Ann Hoenigswald, our senior conservator, went to Copenhagen with a Mylar overlay to compare the scale and form of the figure.'' 
 That the two men are almost identical was unusual for Manet. ''To take one figure and literally insert it into another painting is almost unheard of,'' Ms. Jones said. ''We've been looking for other examples, but there isn't really anything like this. Here he's put in a whole new context.'' 
 The painting had also been covered with layers of yellow varnish that had made the painting's surface even and its colors flat; until its cleaning nobody knew what the original colors were.
 ''The painting suddenly had vibrant blues, greens and shades of aqua as well as pristine white,'' Ms. Jones said. ''There is also a remarkable variation in texture.'' There are, she said, areas of thick impasto and places where the paint is applied with a wash so thin that it resembles watercolor.
 Seeing the two paintings next to each other also helps illuminate the artist's painterly techniques. Manet is thought to have begun ''Ragpicker,'' the largest of seven monumental paintings that depict single figures, after he went to Madrid in 1865. 
 ''These are not sophisticated figures that are normally associated with Paris, yet they are depicted with sympathy and honesty,'' Ms. Jones said. ''And that is all the more apparent when the two are seen together.'' 
 A WATER WORK AT BARD
 A year ago Olafur Eliasson was gearing up for ''New York City Waterfalls,'' four waterfalls that he created off the shores of Brooklyn, Manhattan and Governors Island last summer. Now Mr. Eliasson, a Danish-Icelandic artist, is about to unveil one of his first permanent outdoor projects in the United States. It too relies on water as a theme. 
 Four years in the making, the new work, ''The Parliament of Reality,'' an island surrounded by a 30-foot circular lake, 24 trees and wild grasses, will open Friday at Bard College in Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y. 
 Situated opposite the Fisher Center for the Performing Arts, that undulating stainless steel building designed by Frank Gehry, Mr. Eliasson's installation combines the natural with the man-made. Viewers will have different experiences at different times of the year. 
 ''During the summer you are surrounded by trees, and you become aware of the sky and the surrounding lake,'' said Tom Eccles, director of Bard's Center for Curatorial Studies. ''In the fall the trees' golden leaves will drop onto the water, creating a circular color field, and in the winter it will all freeze, and the stainless steel bridge becomes an icicle-laden tunnel.'' 
 Even during these tough economic times, Mr. Eccles said, it is possible to have public art that will leave a legacy for future generations. 
 Often financing for such projects comes from unexpected places. The $1.4 million need to realize this installation has been entirely paid for by Maja Hoffmann, a member of the Curatorial Studies board, who is a collector and president of the LUMA Foundation, which is based in Zurich. 
 SOTHEBY'S TO MIX ERAS
 Christie's announced in January that as part of its downsizing it would merge its 19th-century European art, old master paintings, old master drawings and British drawings into one department. Many in the art world speculated that it was only a matter of time before Sotheby's would follow. 
 But Sotheby's is holding fast, keeping these departments separate while not ruling out the occasional collaboration. Next month its old master paintings and antiquities departments are holding a joint sale for the first time. 
 The sale, ''Old Master Painting, European Sculpture and Antiquities,'' will take place on June 4 in New York. Included in the sale will be three paintings being sold by the Los Angeles County Museum of Art -- a Pieter de Hooch, a Gerard ter Borch and a Rubens -- as well as antiquities like a monumental granite head of the Egyptian ruler King Nectanebo II estimated at $600,000 to $900,000 and an Egyptian portrait of a mummy painted on wood and dating from the fourth century A.D. estimated at $150,000 to $250,000. 
 ''For the last few years we have exhibited our works together,'' said George Wachter, director of Sotheby's old master paintings department worldwide. ''And since we both decided to cut back on the number of works we will sell this season, we thought it might be interesting to put the two sales together.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''The Old Musician'' will be seen with another Manet work.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART, WASHINGTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (94%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) FRANCE (88%); UNITED STATES (88%); DENMARK (67%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



516 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 277 words

HEADLINE: Pfizer Offers 70 Drugs Free To Jobless

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Pfizer said Thursday that it would provide 70 of its most widely prescribed drugs, including Lipitor and Viagra, free to people who have lost their jobs and health insurance. 
 The company said it would give away the medicines for up to a year to Americans who lost jobs since Jan. 1 and had been taking the Pfizer drug for three months or more.
 The move could earn Pfizer some good will; it has long been a target of critics of drug industry prices and sales practices. The program might also help keep those patients loyal to Pfizer brands.
 Officials for Pfizer, which is based in New York, said they did not know how much the program would cost and had not put a cap on spending for it.
 The drugs covered in the program include several for diabetes and some of Pfizer's top money makers, including the painkiller Celebrex and the fibromyalgia treatment Lyrica. Drugs from several other classes like antibiotics, antidepressants, antifungal treatments, heart mediations, contraceptives and smoking cessation products are also included. Cheaper generic versions are available for many of the drugs.
 Starting Thursday, patients can call a toll-free number, (866) 706-2400, to sign up. Those whose drugs are not included in the program will be referred to other company aid programs. Starting July 1, patients can also apply through the Web site, www.PfizerHelpfulAnswers.com, which has information about the other Pfizer aid programs. Applications will be accepted through Dec. 31.
 Many drug makers, including Pfizer, have been raising prices, partly to offset declines in revenue as the recession reduces the number of prescriptions people can afford to fill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (75%); ANTI-INFECTIVES (73%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (73%); ANTIFUNGAL AGENTS (73%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (73%); ANTIBIOTICS (73%); SMOKING (72%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); DIABETES (70%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); SMOKING CESSATION (52%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (94%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (94%); PFEB (BRU) (94%); PFE (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (94%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (94%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



517 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Jobless Claims Rise on Auto Layoffs

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
New jobless claims rose more than expected last week partly because of an increase in layoffs by the automobile industry, while the number of people continuing to receive unemployment benefits set a record for the 15th straight week 
 The Labor Department says the number of people requesting rose to a seasonally adjusted 637,000, from a revised 605,000 in the previous week. That's above analysts' expectations of 610,000.
 A department analyst says most of the increase was due to auto layoffs. Economists estimate Chrysler has laid off 27,000 workers in the wake of its April 30 bankruptcy filing.
 Continuing jobless claims jumped to 6.56 million from 6.36 million, also higher than analysts expected.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (86%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



518 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: A History of Infamy, Sold Off in Little Pieces

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn. 

 BODY:
The items were sometimes delicate, often minimalist and always haunting: a monogrammed silver matchbox; a gold locket with a butterfly design; a letter-opener, its sturdy handle embellished with an eagle and a swastika. Up for auction here on Thursday, the relics fetched record prices and even spurred bidding wars, purely because of their history: They are believed to be among items owned by Adolf Hitler and Eva Braun.
 While the recession may mean that many Americans have been wrestling their overworked credit cards back into their wallets and cutting back on expenses large and small, some collectors have been paying record prices for historic artifacts. At Alexander Autographs, a small auctioneer that expected to generate about $800,000 in sales at its two-day auction, sales reached nearly $600,000 on Wednesday. By Thursday, they were edging toward $1 million. 
 A Congressional document signed by Thomas Jefferson, expected to fetch $15,000 to $17,000, sold for $34,000. Seven documents signed by John Adams surpassed their estimated sales prices. 
 But Bill Panagopulos, the company's owner, said buyers were once again feeling more comfortable buying items that once belonged to history's villains, too.
 ''When the towers came down, they wanted George Washington. They wanted solid leaders,'' he said. ''You couldn't give the bad guys away.''
 By Thursday's auction, those sentiments had clearly changed. The most interest -- and higher prices -- went to the Nazi-related items once owned by the collector John Lattimer: $4,000 for Braun's compact; $4,250 for Hitler's teacup and saucer, with a rose and chestnut print; and $3,000 for his dessert plate.
 ''This market didn't take the beating that the art market has taken, that the rare furniture market has taken, that jewelry has taken,'' said Bill Panagopulos, the company's owner.
 As he spoke, a half-dozen workers fielded bids and munched on doughnuts and sandwiches in a nondescript office near downtown. The room buzzed with the steady rings of phones and the squawks of his two parrots.
 The collectors who bought these items included Chuck Spielman, 66, a Vietnam veteran and retired commercial real estate executive based in San Diego. He was outbid on Hitler's dessert plate and his holiday card. But he spent about $5,000 on Holocaust-related items, including stamps and currency used in Jewish ghettos and photos of concentration camps, as well as artifacts connected to Hiroshima. 
 He is building a memorial room for World War II veterans at a space where he also restores classic cars.
 ''I never thought as a Jew that I would collect anything Nazi,'' Mr. Spielman said. ''But that is history. That's part of what went on during the war. I figured it would be important for me to assemble that together just so people wouldn't forget what happened.''
 That's not to say that the recession has spared the historical auction business entirely. Alexander Autographs, originally planning to hold its auction in February, delayed it several times. The better known auction houses, like Christie's and Sothebys, have faced disappointing sales compared to recent years.
 But there appear to be a steady number of military veterans and dealers still eager to buy. Ray Zyla, owner of Mohawk Arms in Bouckville, N.Y., said sales were ''solid'' at his most recent auction in November, as buyers continued to purchase items like Imperial Prussian helmets and German daggers. ''In the past year, and ever since our economic crunch, there hasn't been any slowdown,'' he said.
 He finds that veterans like to purchase these types of military items -- especially German ones -- because they are ''trophies from the enemy that we beat,'' he said, and ''a lot of the veterans take pride in what we did.''
 Still, during the Alexander Autographs auction on Thursday, Mr. Panagopulos looked disturbed when he pointed out that the infamous Nazi doctor Josef Mengele's signature fetched $5,500, which was ''unfortunately almost bringing in as much as George Washington.'' 
 He sarcastically referred to the SS leader Heinrich Himmler, whose love letter was auctioned off for $1,800, as a ''charmer.'' 
 He also described as ''awful'' a so-called racial purity letter, a court document that denied German nationality to a family deemed to have considerable Polish ancestry. That sold for $2,000.
 But he finds that in the recession, collectors are searching for more secure investments. ''They have nothing else left to buy,'' he said. ''Stocks are tanking. Real estate, while you can buy it, you have to hold it.''
 Mr. Panagopulos pointed out that Dr. Lattimer's pieces have better retained their value because he was a respected collector. 
 Evan Lattimer, the daughter of Dr. Lattimer, said her family was selling the items now because her father had died; she did not factor the recession into her decision.
 ''It ought to go to someone who knows about it and appreciates it,'' she said.
 But even among the frenzied bidding, the history of the items stayed in the minds of workers at Alexander Autographs. 
 As a pair of ''Death's Head'' cufflinks owned by Ernst Kaltenbrunner, who was executed as a war criminal, prompted a flurry of bids and ultimately sold for $950, the room fell strangely silent. As the bidding closed, Mr. Panagopulos tried to add some levity.
 ''I don't think you can wear them in polite company,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A compact owned by Eva Braun sold for $4,000 at a Stamford, Conn., auction. At left, a dessert plate used at Hitler's ''Eagle's Nest'' mountain retreat sold for $3,000.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEXANDER AUTOGRAPHS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (77%); WORLD WAR II (77%); VETERANS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); HOLOCAUST (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); SALES PROJECTIONS (74%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (61%); SLUM DWELLINGS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



519 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Data Say Migration to U.S. Has Plummeted

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

DATELINE: MEXICALI, Mexico 

 BODY:
Census data from the Mexican government indicate an extraordinary decline in the number of Mexican immigrants going to the United States.
 The recently released data show that about 226,000 fewer people emigrated from Mexico to other countries during the year that ended in August 2008 than during the previous year, a decline of 25 percent. All but a very small fraction of emigration, both legal and illegal, from Mexico is to the United States. 
 Because of surging immigration, the Mexican-born population in the United States has grown steeply year after year since the early 1990s, dipping briefly only after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, census data in both countries show. 
 Mexican and American researchers say that the current decline, which has also been manifested in a decrease in arrests along the border, is largely a result of Mexicans' deciding to delay illegal crossings because of the lack of jobs in the ailing American economy. 
 The trend emerged clearly with the onset of the recession and, demographers say, provides new evidence that illegal immigrants from Mexico, by far the biggest source of unauthorized migration to the United States, are drawn by jobs and respond to a sinking labor market by staying away. 
 ''If jobs are available, people come,'' said Jeffrey S. Passel, senior demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research group in Washington. ''If jobs are not available, people don't come.'' 
 The net outflow of migrants from Mexico -- those who left minus those who returned -- fell by about half in the year that ended in August 2008 from the preceding year. The figures are based on detailed household interviews conducted quarterly by the census agency in Mexico, the National Institute of Statistics and Geography.
 Along the border, the signs of the drop-off are subtle but ubiquitous. Only two beds are filled in a shelter here that houses migrants hoping to sneak into the United States. On the American side, near Calexico, Calif., Border Patrol vans return empty to their base after agents comb the desert for illegal crossers.
 In recent weeks, the spread of swine flu in Mexico and the government's response of shutting down schools and canceling public gatherings brought migration here and elsewhere nearly to a halt. But demographers expect the deep flu-related decline to be temporary.
 With so many Mexicans remaining in their home villages, the population of illegal immigrants in the United States stopped growing and might have slightly decreased in the last year, an abrupt shift after a decade of yearly influxes, research by demographers in the United States shows. Mexicans account for 32 percent of immigrants in the United States, and more than half of them lack legal status, the Pew center has reported.
 Still, at least 11 million illegal immigrants remain in the United States, the demographers say. Despite collapsing job markets in construction and other low-wage work, there has been no exodus among Mexicans living in the United States, the Mexican census figures show. About the same number of migrants -- 450,000 -- returned to Mexico in 2008 as in 2007.
 Some researchers argue that the drop in crossings from Mexico proves that tough law enforcement at the border and in American workplaces can reduce illegal immigration in times of rising unemployment in the United States. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials stepped up factory and community raids last year, and the Border Patrol expanded its force by 17 percent in one year, to nearly 17,500 agents.
 ''The latest evidence suggests that you can reverse the flow,'' said Steven A. Camarota, a demographer at the Center for Immigration Studies, a research group in Washington that calls for reduced immigration. ''It is not set in stone, so with some mix of enforcement and the economy, fewer will come and more will go home.'' 
 But Wayne Cornelius, the director of the Center for Comparative Immigration Studies at the University of California, San Diego, predicted that if the United States job market revived, border enforcement would become much less of a deterrent. 
 The center has documented the causes of the decrease in Mexican migration though interviews this year with more than 1,000 Mexicans in California and in a Yucatan village that has been a source of migrants. In the interviews, all of the Mexicans who did set out from Yucatan for the United States reported that they eventually succeeded in crossing. 
 Mexicans are ''not forgoing migration forever,'' Professor Cornelius said. ''They are hoping that the economy in the United States will improve.'' 
 For now, though, Mexicans like Jose Luis Z., 16, of the state of Michoacan, are setting the trend. Jose Luis went to the Albergue del Desierto, a migrant shelter in Mexicali for minor boys, after setting out from home without telling his parents. 
 But when a job planting trees in Washington State fell through and he heard from migrants of increased patrolling along the border, he decided to head back home.
 ''I thought it would be easy, but now I see how people suffer,'' said Jose Luis, who asked that his last name be withheld because he was a minor. He said he would go back to picking strawberries in Michoacan, if his furious father did not banish him.
 ''There is work back home,'' Jose Luis said, ''but it doesn't pay anything.'' 
 The enforcement buildup along the border, which started during the Bush administration, has made many Mexicans think twice about the cost and danger of an illegal trek when no job awaits on the other side, scholars said. 
 ''There is a lack of certainty about jobs, so for the time being it is better to stay home,'' said Agustin Escobar Latapi, a sociologist at the Center for Research in Social Anthropology in Guadalajara, Mexico.
 Most immigrants now need smugglers to guide them through searing deserts and hidden mountain passes where there are gaps in Border Patrol surveillance. In Mexicali, smugglers' fees are now $3,000 to $5,000 for a trip to Los Angeles, immigrants and social workers said. They reported that Mexicans' relatives in the United States, struggling to hold on to their own jobs, no longer had money to lend to a family member to pay a smuggler. 
 Some here in Mexicali said they were not surprised by the low number of Mexicans coming back from the United States. ''Our people are not stupid,'' said Monika Oropeza Rodriguez, the executive director of the Albergue del Desierto. ''There may be a crisis in the United States, but they know that we have been in an economic crisis in Mexico for many years.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Many would-be Mexican emigrants have apparently decided to delay illegal crossings because of the lack of jobs in the United States in the recession. The border is shown near Campo, Calif.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EROS HOAGLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A4) CHART: A Drop in Emigration (Sources: Mexico's National Statistics, Geography and Information Institute
 Jeffrey S. Passel, Pew Hispanic Center)(A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); CENSUS (91%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (79%); TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



520 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Investors Lift Markets Despite Weak Jobs Report

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Wall Street broke a three-day losing streak on Thursday, shrugging off an unexpected surge in weekly unemployment claims as a crucial borrowing rate fell to its lowest point in a year and offered a signal of stability in the lending markets.
 Stocks in New York crept higher in afternoon trading after markets around the world mostly fell. At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 46.43 points, or 0.56 percent, at 8,331.32, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.04 percent, or 9.15 points, to 893.07. 
 Shares of computer makers and microprocessor companies rose, lifting the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index 1.5 percent, to 1,689.21. Microsoft, Apple and Intel gained, and shares of the business software maker CA rose 5.5 percent, to $18.27, after it reported an increase in quarterly profit.
 Stock markets have sunk this week after two months of heady rebounds from their lowest levels in 12 years. Faced with sluggish retail sales, investors seemed to second-guess the tide of hopefulness that washed through financial markets earlier this spring.
 ''Some cold water got thrown over everyone's optimism,'' said Bill Schultz, chief investment officer at McQueen Ball & Associates. ''We're not at the turnaround stage quite yet.''
 The S.& P. 500 briefly turned positive for the year, but it was back in the red on Thursday, about 1 percent below the benchmark of 903 points, where it began the year.
 ''The next leg is going to be harder,'' Mr. Schultz said. ''We're going to have to see more solid data before we're ready to take it higher from here.''
 Underscoring that uncertainty, the Labor Department reported that first-time unemployment claims rose to 637,000 last week, from 605,000 a week earlier. The rise in new jobless claims was higher than expected and was largely the result of layoffs at Chrysler. On Thursday, the automaker released a list of almost 800 dealers that it planned to close.
 Shares of Wal-Mart Stores fell 1.9 percent, to $49.10, after the discount retailer reported that its earnings were flat for the three months that ended April 30. 
 Financial companies posted some gains as the credit markets showed signs of easing.
 The three-month London interbank offered rate, a closely watched measure of how much banks charge one another to borrow money, fell to 0.85 percent, continuing a steady decline from its record highs of 4.8 percent. At the height of the credit crisis last fall, banks increased their lending rates, worried about parting with money for even a short period of time.
 Investors continued moving back toward government debt, pushing the yield on longer-term Treasury notes down slightly.
 Interest rates on Treasury bonds and the 10-year note spiked last week to their highest levels since November, to 3.34 percent, as investors began to demand higher returns from the government. That move had worried some investors and stoked fears that the amount of coming government debt issuance would drive rates even higher, forcing the Federal Reserve to consider raising interest rates. But Treasury yields have moderated this week.
 The Treasury's 10-year note rose to 8/32, to 100 9/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 3.09 percent, from 3.12 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities.(Source: F.H.L.M.C.)
The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); CLOSINGS (78%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); RETAILERS (72%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); INTERBANK LENDING (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); COMPUTER MAKERS (70%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (69%); MICROPROCESSORS (69%); RETAIL SALES (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (54%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (83%); INTEL CORP (57%); WAL-MART STORES INC (52%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (83%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); WMT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (83%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (83%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



521 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: New York Red Cross Chapter Plans More Than 40 Layoffs

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
Blaming a poor economic climate and a 25 percent drop in private donations, the American Red Cross in Greater New York plans to lay off a quarter of its 186-person staff, officials said on Thursday. 
 The layoffs are expected to save $3 million to $4 million and eliminate positions across the board, including senior administrative staff members, emergency dispatchers and employees who run training classes from local Red Cross offices. 
 The officials say that even with the cuts, they hope to maintain the same level of services.
 The Red Cross began notifying staff members on Tuesday that their jobs would be eliminated; the notifications will continue until next Tuesday. 
 ''We scoured all of our expenses and looked for every opportunity to reduce them,'' Terry Bischoff, the chief executive of the chapter, said in a telephone interview on Thursday. ''We love our employees, they're great, we value every one of them. We've worked very hard to have the number of layoffs as small as it could be.''
 The Greater New York chapter is the largest Red Cross chapter in the country, and dispatches workers to respond to emergencies -- more than 3,000 a year -- in all five boroughs and four counties in the lower Hudson Valley. 
 The Red Cross depends largely on volunteers, who make up at least 95 percent of its work force. 
 Officials at the Greater New York Red Cross faced a smaller budget in 2010 -- $28.5 million, down from $34 million in 2009. 
 To begin to close the gap, they solicited pro bono advertising work from Ogilvy New York and persuaded Nestle to donate bottled water for people in need.
 Internally, officials discontinued the employee 401(k) match program and halted all salary increases and bonuses, but decided against a standard pay cut. 
 Other nonprofit groups are struggling to maintain services as donations have dropped off. 
 Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York has seen a 10 to 20 percent drop in donations since the recession hit, said Msgr. Kevin Sullivan, its executive director. 
 ''The environment is very, very difficult,'' he said. ''We're trying to maintain at least a basic level of service.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (93%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); CHARITIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); US 401K PLANS (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (61%); RELIGION (61%)

COMPANY: NESTLE SA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RED CROSS (94%)

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



522 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 536 words

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
WHERE THE METERS
 Don't Get Cold
 We'd heard of tea cozies. But now Brooklyn Heights has introduced parking-meter cozies -- 69 of them, in fact. As of Thursday morning, the parking-meter poles on Montague Street between Court and Hicks Streets are now decorated with cheerful bright sleeves, the result of a knitting project by volunteers here and abroad. 
 ''You see the streetscape as being hard and forbidding, but the contrast with this soft, fuzzy, colorful yarn is inherently charming,'' said Chelsea Mauldin, the executive director of the Montague Street Business Improvement District, which commissioned the project through Magda Sayeg, an artist whose claim to fame includes entirely covering a Mexican bus with her knitting.
 The cozies are made out of wool or acrylic, to better withstand the elements.
 Of the 69 cozies, 60 of them came from 50 volunteers, and half of those were from outside Brooklyn. ''That is when we were astonished. Truly we thought maybe a dozen were going to come in,'' Ms. Mauldin said. Cozies were sent in from San Francisco, Paris and Santiago, Chile. The rest were done with Ms. Sayeg.
 The cozies will stay in place until mid-June. Ms. Sayeg said the first question people have when she tells them about the meter cozy project is: Do they still have to pay for the parking meter? The short answer is yes. The coin slot is still free and clear. JENNIFER 8. LEE 
 TAKING
 QUESTIONS
 This week on the blog, Reynold Levy, president of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, is answering questions about the history and future of the complex, its economic impact on the city, the state of arts fund-raising and more. Here is an excerpt:
 Q. As was mentioned, Lincoln Center was an example of an urban-displacement project that would not be dared anymore. In the light of the billions of corporate and public funds being spent on this renovation, how will the city at large benefit? Aside from a little less shadow on West 65th Street and slightly more appealing plazas, what will we get to justify all the expenditure that could have been allocated to more egalitarian purposes?dennisl
 A. Where to begin? One of the key objectives of our transformation is to make Lincoln Center more accessible, more open to the community. The plans include benches, shade, miniparks, bleachers, a booth selling discounted tickets for that day's performances, a lawn for relaxing atop our new destination restaurant, new screening rooms for the Film Society of Lincoln Center, the renovated and updated David H. Koch Theater for New York City Opera and New York City Ballet, a brand new Alice Tully Hall inside and out, a 40,000-square-foot expansion of the Juilliard School, a new central mechanical plant to more efficiently service many of Lincoln Center's performance halls, a wi-fied campus, more bathrooms, free performances in the new visitors' space that will open in November, more food and beverage alternatives at a variety of prices, and more and varied public spaces to hold free events like Lincoln Center Out of Doors.
 Fifty years after our founding, we still are committed to Lincoln Center's original vision of providing the finest programming to the broadest possible audience.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hand-knitted cozies will keep parking-meter poles warm.
 PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); FUNDRAISING (76%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (76%); VOLUNTEERS (76%); KNITTING & CROCHETING (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); DANCE COMPANIES (70%); BALLET (64%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHILE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



523 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Have Mop, Will Travel: A New Wave of Caretakers

BYLINE: By FINN-OLAF JONES

 BODY:
IF the image of a caretaker brings to mind a creepy, solitary character from the pages of Stephen King or Harold Pinter's 1960 play, meet a new breed who travels the world fighting rodents, loose roof tiles, burst pipes and other harbingers of second-home apocalypses. 
 The economic crisis may have upended many people's lives, but some intrepid souls have found that leaving the rat race -- voluntarily or involuntarily -- can mean living in a dream house, with mortgages, taxes and utilities already covered.
 Last June, Kevin Shea, a former management consultant with an M.B.A. who once counted the Ford Motor Company as a client, and his wife, Alicia, decided to leave the corporate world in search of adventure. They created a Web site detailing their skills in home repair, gardening, cooking and animal care, in the hopes of landing a caretaker's job. So far, the Sheas, who are from Belmont, Mass., have found positions at a 20-acre estate on the Connecticut River and a seaside property in New Hampshire, where they fished from the dock. 
 ''We are building references for more exotic destinations,'' said Mr. Shea, 59, citing a desire to go to places where he can pursue fly-fishing and skiing. ''We took our professional attitudes and incorporated them into getting good places to take care of.'' 
 He added that, ''If you're just in it because you want a free place to stay, you're not going to build trust, which is what you need to get the job.'' 
 Gary Dunn, the publisher of The Caretaker Gazette, a newsletter and Web site that matches property owners with caretakers, said it was a ''boom time'' for the business. The Caretaker Gazette has over 11,000 paid subscribers, up more than 10 percent from two years earlier, he said.
 ''Homes that used to be flipped quickly are now empty for extended periods of times,'' Mr. Dunn said. ''Years ago, we didn't hear from real estate investors. Now they're advertising. Meanwhile, we have more people who have lost their jobs who want to travel the world and live rent free or even get paid.'' 
 Susan Holtham, who runs Mindmyhouse.com, an online service listing housesitting and caretaker positions, mostly in Europe, echoes this optimism. 
 ''Business suddenly took off in January,'' she said. ''People are leaving their jobs and want to explore new places and get a roof over their heads.''
 Bruce Matters, who has been running a caretaker and property management business in the Hamptons since 1976, said business was picking up. 
 ''It used to be retired policemen and the like who would come here to take care of someone's house,'' Mr. Matters said. ''For the past year and a half, I've seen ex-entrepreneurs, bankers and real estate agents moving in. Everyone and their brother wants to jump on the care-taking bandwagon.'' 
 And the economic downturn has brought Mr. Matters a new set of clients: banks and federal agencies. ''It's mostly done under the radar out here,'' he said, ''but when a house is seized, they need someone to take care of it.''
 If the Hamptons aren't enticing enough, the job listings on Mr. Dunn's Web site and mindmyhouse.com read like offerings from the Abercrombie & Kent travel catalog: a horse farm in northern Virginia; a private island off the east coast of Australia; a mountain chalet in Aspen, Colo.; an ancient farmhouse in northern France. 
 Mr. Dunn said pay could range from ''a free place to park your R.V.'' to over $100,000 a year. 
 Sometimes, the rewards are more celestial. The Ratna Ling Retreat Center in the coastal hills of Northern California is offering a position featuring ''free classes in a variety of Buddhist subjects.''
 ''My greatest reward is the time to create,'' said Dave Malone, who is taking care of a Greek Revival mansion lording over the Ohio River in Jeffersonville, Ind. Last year, Mr. Malone left a ''dissipated technical writing gig'' to find a peaceful place to write things closer to his heart.
 A confessed ''neat freak,'' Mr. Malone was introduced to the mansion's owner at an art opening in Indiana; she offered to let him take care of it while she wintered in Florida.
 ''I was outside all last week cutting limbs that got too heavy with ice and were threatening the house,'' he said after a recent storm. ''But otherwise I have very few distractions, and all sorts of beautiful things come to me here for inspiration.'' 
 So far, he has finished two books of poetry and is at work on a novel.
 Earl Delno has a lot more duties on an estate high in the Sierra Nevada on Lake Tahoe.
 ''My predecessor was a partier, and it showed,'' Mr. Delno said. ''The place was rundown, so when I started, it was nonstop work. Now, I'm reaping the rewards from it.'' 
 Mr. Delno entered the caretaker business for a chance to settle down on terra firma, away from the turmoil of the yachting industry. ''I spent most of my career on the sea, first in the merchant marine and then running yachts,'' said Mr. Delno, 53, originally from Jacksonville, Fla. 
 The property he cares for is a 72-acre spread of pine-studded forest facing the snowcapped mountains above Lake Tahoe's western shore, with a 21,000-square-foot lodge and a separate four-bedroom house for Mr. Delno. The estate is owned by an overseas business executive who visits it two months a year. For the rest of the time, Mr. Delno has the run of the place. 
 Apart from a salary in the mid-five figures, the job has other, less-tangible perks. 
 ''One day, I looked out from my balcony and there was a cinnamon-colored bear sitting 15 feet away from me on a tree,'' said the former seafarer. ''I share this place with coyotes in the winter and my boss in the summers. But I run it as if it were my own ship.''
 While credit, criminal and reference checks have become standard in filling positions, many property owners want to be assured that even if their potential caretaker has a graduate degree or corporate experience, he can still change a light bulb. 
 ''I'd rather not have a yuppie, but someone with a known skill,'' said Bill Baker, who owns a 150-acre island with a lighthouse in Nova Scotia where he and his family summer. ''I once made the mistake of hiring a fellow who wanted to 'get away from it all' who turned out to be a real dud.'' 
 Annette Perry said it was important for caretakers to build up a set of references. 
 ''I started taking care of a horse ranch near Estes Park, Colo., and got a great reference to my next local job,'' said Ms. Perry, 44. ''Eventually, I was able to do this internationally.'' 
 Ms. Perry was spending the winter taking care of an isolated beach house on Roatan Island off the Caribbean coast of Honduras, where daily activities include walking the owner's dogs along the shore or diving the Technicolor coral reefs surrounding the island. 
 ''I made a little over $10,000 last year,'' Ms. Perry said. ''But I'm hardly spending any money, so I'm net positive financially. I still find it hard to believe I'm being paid to travel around the world doing this.'' 
 IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
 The Caretaker Gazette (www.caretaker.org) is a comprehensive newsletter and Web site featuring articles and job listings -- currently more than 100 -- from around the world. An annual online subscription (every other month), which includes automatic job-listing updates by e-mail several times a week, costs $29.95; the printed version is $34.95. 
 Mindmyhouse (www.mindmyhouse.com) is a smaller Web site with an emphasison short-term housesitting along with some longer-term care-taking positions, mostly in Europe. An annual subscription is $20.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CAREER MOVE: Kevin and Alicia Shea, who left the corporate world in search of adventure, in a house in New Hampshire they care for, with the owner's dog. They created a Web site listing their skills.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 IN A BOOM: Bruce Matters, at a client's Hamptons home, said demand for his caretaker business was growing.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GORDON M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); RODENTS (77%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); ANIMALS (72%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (71%); SKIING (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (68%); DISMISSALS (68%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (67%); SPORT FISHING (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (57%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (70%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (70%); F (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



524 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Court Upholds Cuts in Aid to Noncitizens Who Are Old, Blind or Disabled

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
Thousands of impoverished elderly, disabled or blind legal residents of New York State, including refugees, will be limited to $352 a month in public aid -- about half of what lower courts have said they should get -- under a decision by the Court of Appeals, the state's highest court. 
 The 5-to-2 decision, rendered on Tuesday, overturned the rulings of two lower courts, which had held that under the state and federal Constitutions, such legal residents could not be denied a higher level of benefits simply because they were not citizens. On narrower grounds, the high court held that the state had no duty to fill in for a federal program that had stopped benefits to most disabled legal immigrants in 1996. 
 Lawyers who brought the class-action lawsuit in 2004 called the decision ''devastating,'' and the state's new chief judge, Jonathan Lippman, joined in a vigorous dissent. But Michael Hayes, a spokesman for the state's Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance, said the state welcomed the decision, and he estimated that it would save the state and local governments from having to add $100 million to $270 million to an annual aid budget of $1 billion. Mr. Hayes estimated that 9,500 to 37,000 people were affected. 
 Most of the named plaintiffs have since become citizens or died while awaiting the extra payments, which were put on hold while the state appealed the earlier decisions, lawyers said. But thousands more are feeling the pinch more than ever, said Barbara Weiner, a lawyer with Empire Justice Center in Albany, which worked on the suit with the Legal Aid Society and the New York Legal Assistance Group.
 ''The public assistance benefit levels are designed as temporary, but these are people who by definition are going to be stuck where they are because they're old and they're disabled,'' she said. ''Now families helping them are going into their own economic decline.''
 The lead plaintiff, Boris Khrapunskiy, a refugee from Ukraine, was 97 and living in Brooklyn when he was cut off from monthly Supplemental Security Income benefits of $651 and reduced to $352 in ''safety net'' aid. His S.S.I. benefits were not restored until he was 99, after he became a citizen, his son, Roman, said. He died in October at 101.
 For more than 60 years, regardless of citizenship, legal residents of New York State who became impoverished were entitled to a higher level of aid if they were elderly, blind or disabled than if they were able-bodied. When the federal government took over the program in the 1970s, the state supplemented the benefit to reach the more generous level it had set earlier. 
 But that changed after 1996, when Congress cut most noncitizens from S.S.I. and set a seven-year limit for the rest, mainly refugees, expecting them to become United States citizens in that time -- extended to nine years in 2008. Most legal immigrants have a five-year waiting period before they can receive federal public assistance. In New York, however, legal immigrants who are poor enough can receive safety net aid.
 A 2001 ruling by the Court of Appeals struck down a state restriction on nonemergency Medicaid coverage for the immigrant poor, saying it violated a 1930 constitutional requirement that the state help the needy, and the United States Constitution's guarantee of equal protection. 
 But in this case, the court -- now with more conservative appointees -- said the Medicaid decision did not apply. In a strongly worded dissent written by Judge Carmen Beauchamp Ciparick, she and Judge Lippman disagreed. ''The majority today has turned its back on the history of New York's commitment to protect its most fragile and vulnerable populations,'' she wrote. 
 In 2004, Mr. Khrapunskiy, a wounded veteran of Stalingrad, recalled anti-Semitic attacks that had kept him from speaking Yiddish for 70 years. 
 Mr. Khrapunskiy's son recalled his struggle to pass a simplified citizenship test after suffering a stroke and said, ''I feel that it was wrong to decide against older people like this who have suffered so much in their lives.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLINDNESS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); APPEALS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); CITIZENSHIP (89%); LEGAL AID (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); LAWYERS (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); NATURALIZATION (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); APPEALS COURTS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); IMMIGRATION (73%); CLASS ACTIONS (72%); JUDGES (72%); BUDGETS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL J HAYES (52%); JONATHAN J JUDGE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



525 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Pension Case To End as Firm Shifts Its Ways

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
The Carlyle Group, one of the largest and most politically connected private equity firms, will pay $20 million and make broad changes to its practices to end an inquiry by New York's state attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, into its pension business.
 Under the deal, Carlyle will no longer use intermediaries, known as placement agents, to gain investment business from public pension funds nationwide, and it will curtail its campaign contributions to elected officials who oversee pension funds. 
 Carlyle executives and the firm will not face any further action, including criminal prosecution, by Mr. Cuomo's office. Mr. Cuomo hopes to use the settlement as a model for an industrywide overhaul of how hedge funds and private equity firms interact with public pension funds.
 In addition, the settlement could bring new urgency to the Securities and Exchange Commission's deliberations about whether to bar investment firms and their executives from making campaign contributions to officials who oversee public pensions. Carlyle, which over the years has employed former President George H. W. Bush and a former British prime minister, John Major, manages $1.5 billion for the New York State pension fund, and is one of the fund's largest outside investment managers. 
 Mr. Cuomo's inquiry began in New York, but the agreement will apply to the firm's business with all public pension funds nationwide. His office said the $20 million settlement was reached after considering Carlyle's various pension deals and relative culpability. The company earns more than $13 million in annual fees from the New York pension fund.
 ''This is a revolutionary agreement,'' Mr. Cuomo said Thursday. ''I believe it totally changes the way people operate: It ends pay-to-play, it bans the selling of access, it puts the political power brokers out of business.''
 Christopher W. Ullman, a Carlyle spokesman, said, ''We are pleased to announce today that we have reached a successful resolution with the attorney general and strongly support his efforts to implement reforms that usher in a new era of transparency and accountability into the pension fund investment process.''
 For two years, Mr. Cuomo's office and the Securities and Exchange Commission have been conducting parallel investigations focused on the millions of dollars and other favors that friends, relatives and aides of a former state comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, gained by acting as intermediaries between investment firms and officials at New York State's $122 billion pension fund. New York's comptroller is the sole trustee of the pension fund.
 Payments to intermediaries can be illegal if they are essentially bribes or kickbacks disguised as legitimate payments.
 Investigators have laid out what they have called a network of corruption from California to New York, in which billions of dollars of pension fund investments were handed out in exchange for kickbacks or other questionable payments. 
 Last month, The New York Times reported that investigators were reviewing whether Carlyle had made improper payments to intermediaries in exchange for being awarded lucrative pension fund investments. 
 For the measures agreed to by Carlyle and Mr. Cuomo to have broader impact across Wall Street, the S.E.C., Congress or state comptrollers would need to agree to impose them. John Nester, an S.E.C. spokesman, said the commission expected to propose new rules as early as July.
 While the Carlyle agreement will prohibit the firm's executives and their relatives from making campaign contributions to comptrollers or other officials charged with overseeing pension funds, there is an exception: Donations up to $300 will be allowed, so long as the donors can vote for the officials they are giving to and are not directing money to campaigns in faraway states, as investment executives have often done. 
 The deal also calls for Carlyle to disclose contributions made to other politicians in any state in which it does pension business. 
 Orin S. Kramer, a hedge fund manager who is chairman of the New Jersey State Investment Council, said Thursday that the agreement was a step in the right direction, but questioned an outright ban on intermediaries, saying, ''There is an argument that one can preserve the valuable economic function of placement agents and have reforms that knock out political fixers.''
 Mr. Cuomo had a different view. ''If Boss Tweed were alive today,'' he said, ''he would be a placement agent.''
 New York State's comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, praised Mr. Cuomo's recommendations, noting that he had recently banned intermediaries from the state pension fund. 
 But Mr. DiNapoli's own practices have influenced the new Cuomo policy and illustrated how difficult the pension business can be to regulate. In 2007, Fernando Ferrer, the former Bronx borough president, introduced Mr. DiNapoli to Alfred Villalobos, who runs Arvco Capital, a Nevada placement agency. Seven months later, an Arvco client landed a $10 million investment from the state pension fund. Mr. DiNapoli's staff has said he was not aware that Mr. Ferrer was a paid consultant to Arvco, and the relationship was never disclosed. 
 Mr. Cuomo said Mr. Ferrer's advocacy on behalf of Arvco would be banned under his guidelines, which bar intermediaries from ''introducing, funding, referring, facilitating, arranging, expediting, fostering or establishing a relationship with or obtaining access to a pension fund.''
 ''I think we covered every base,'' Mr. Cuomo said. 
 Mr. DiNapoli said in a statement that he had ''taken a series of steps to reform the fund.'' His staff said he was not available to be interviewed.
 In a statement Thursday, Carlyle said it was suing Hank Morris, once a top Hevesi aide, and a firm Mr. Morris worked for, Searle & Company, seeking more than $15 million.
 Mr. Morris was a placement agent on several Carlyle deals, including one involving an energy investment fund run by Carlyle and another firm, Riverstone Holdings. The firms paid $10 million to Searle, nearly half of which was secretly funneled to Mr. Morris, according to an S.E.C. complaint.
 David M. Leuschen, a top Riverstone executive, also invested $100,000 in ''Chooch,'' a movie produced by a brother of a top aide to Mr. Hevesi, David Loglisci. 
 Carlyle's pension practices have drawn scrutiny in a number of states. In Connecticut, Carlyle gained entree to the state pension fund in the 1990s by hiring a Washington lobbyist who offered the state treasurer, Paul J. Silvester, a lucrative job at the same time the men were discussing pension business. Carlyle was given tens of millions of dollars to manage, and Mr. Silvester got the job; he later went to jail after pleading guilty to federal racketeering and conspiracy charges. 
 In the Cuomo inquiry, Mr. Morris and Mr. Loglisci have been indicted on corruption-related fraud charges, and Raymond B. Harding, a former vice chairman of the state's Liberal Party, has also been charged. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (92%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BRIBERY (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); LITIGATION (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (76%); CORRUPTION (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (67%)

COMPANY: CARLYLE GROUP LP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (92%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



526 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: THE LISTINGS

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
DANCE
 Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.
 AD HOC BALLET (Friday and Saturday) Deborah Lohse presents a new dance-theater work, ''Her,'' featuring a commissioned score by Stefan Weisman and furthering Ms. Lohse's interest in combining the classical and the contemporary. (At 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $18; $12 for students and 65+. 
 (Claudia La Rocco) 
 AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (Monday through Thursday) American Ballet Theater appears to be on a roll right now. It has successfully hired the Hottest Choreographer on the Planet (Alexei Ratmansky), and President and Mrs. Obama are the honorary chairman and chairwoman of the opening-night gala on Monday. Does that mean they will be there? No one is telling, but there are lots of other enticements, including a piece d'occasion by Mr. Ratmansky for the ballerina Nina Ananiashvili, who is retiring this season; the balcony scene pas de deux from Romeo and Juliet, danced by the glorious Diana Vishneva and Marcelo Gomes; and the wonder boy Daniil Simkin with Sarah Lane in ''Theme and Variations.'' On Tuesday the ''Balanchine Tchaikovsky Spectacular'' program begins, offering Ethan Stiefel and Gillian Murphy in an excerpt from ''Allegro Brillante,'' as well as ''Tchaikovsky Pas de Deux,'' ''Mozartiana,'' and ''Theme and Variations.'' There are a number of interesting debuts, particularly at the Wednesday matinee, which offers Mr. Simkin and Xiomara Reyes in ''Allegro,'' as well as Misty Copeland and Jared Matthews in ''Tchaikovsky Pas de Deux.'' (Through July 11.) Monday at 6:30 p.m.; Tuesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m.; Wednesday at 2 and 7:30 p.m.; Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, abt.org; $30 to $150 on Monday; $19 to $175 on Tuesday through Thursday. 
 (Roslyn Sulcas)
 ARTICHOKE DANCE COMPANY (Saturday) A preview of Lynn Neuman's ''Recession Dances, and so can you!'' on Saturday afternoon includes a preperformance workshop at which you can learn dances like the Lindy Hop and the Hustle, which serve as inspiration for this work. Appropriately, both the workshop and the performance are free. Workshop at 1 p.m.; performance at 3 p.m.; Washington Park/J. J. Byrne Playground, Fifth Avenue at Third Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, artichokedance.org. (Sulcas)
 DAVID DORFMAN DANCE (Thursday) David Dorfman has never shied away from controversial subjects; his 2006 piece, ''Underground,'' was about the Weather Underground, the radical group that undertook a bombing campaign to express its outrage over the Vietnam War. In his new ''Disavowal,'' inspired by the life of the abolitionist John Brown, Mr. Dorfman takes on the issues of white supremacy and racism. With original music by Mike Vargas, lighting by Joe Levasseur and a fine group of performers, it's likely to be as thought-provoking as Mr. Dorfman's roughly physical treatment of life always is. (Through May 24.) At 8.30 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, danspaceproject.org; $22. (Sulcas)EVERYBODY DANCE NOW: 20 YEARS OF DANCING IN PRINT (Friday, and Monday through Thursday) The magazine 2wice, to celebrate the 20th anniversary of its predecessor, Dance Ink, has cooked up an exhibition spanning two decades of dance photographs. A Who's Who of artists is featured, along with numerous forms of dance and original copies of Dance Ink and 2wice magazines and books. (Through May 22.) Friday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Monday through Thursday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; American Institute of Graphic Arts National Design Center, 164 Fifth Avenue, between 21st and 22nd Streets, 2wice.org; free. (Claudia La Rocco)
 MARTITA GOSHEN'S EARTHWORKS (Thursday) Martita Goshen has long made works about nature and animals, and in her new ''Other Intelligence, an Odyssey,'' she tackles (according to press materials) the ''human-horse connection.'' (Through May 24.) At 8 p.m., Baryshnikov Arts Center, 450 West 37th Street, Manhattan, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com; $20; $15 for students and 65+. 
 (Sulcas)
 MARTHA GRAHAM DANCE COMPANY (Friday and Saturday) Fang-yi Sheu will dance the lead as the Graham company reconstructs ''Clytemnestra,'' not seen in its entirety for decades. Program B includes ''Errand Into the Maze'' and ''Maple Leaf Rag.'' Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m., the Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, 566 La Guardia Place, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (212) 352-3101, skirballcenter.nyu.edu; $35 to $65. (La Rocco)
 LA MAMA MOVES! (Friday through Sunday, and Thursday) Three weeks. Twenty-one premieres. More than 50 companies and soloists, including Anneke Hensen, Jack Ferver, Douglas Dunn, Rashaun Mitchell and Pavel Zustiaks. Think of it as Fall for Dance downtown. (Through May 31.) Complete schedule at lamama.org. La MaMa ETC, 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710; $15; $10 for students and 65+. 
 (La Rocco)
 MOMIX (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) The Momix marathon is upon us. Moses Pendleton's shape shifters become ''Botanica'' this time around. (Through May 31.) Thursday and Friday at 8 p.m.; Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m.; Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:30 p.m.; Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $19 to $59. (La Rocco)
 MARK MORRIS DANCE GROUP (Friday through Sunday) Lincoln Center's Great Performers series wraps up its season-long ''Russian Dreams: The Music of Sergei Prokofiev'' with ''Romeo & Juliet, on Motifs of Shakespeare.'' The ending is happy (in an ambiguous sort of way), Tybalt and Mercutio are played by women, and the street and party scenes offer many delicious Morris riffs on meditations on community. Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m.; Rose Theater, Broadway and 60th Street, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenter.org; $30 to $90. (La Rocco)
 NEW YORK CITY BALLET (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) Peter Martins's full-length ''Romeo + Juliet,'' created last year for City Ballet, featured some of the company's youngest and newest dancers in leading roles. They reprise their parts this season and should bring even greater stage experience and depth; try to catch Sterling Hyltin and Robert Fairchild on Friday, Tuesday or Thursday nights, or Kathryn Morgan and Sean Suozzi on Saturday evening or Sunday. Breaks from ''Romeo'' come at the Saturday matinee, which offers a chance to catch Jiri Bubenicek's new ''Toccata,'' between ''The Four Temperaments'' and ''Firebird''; and on Wednesday evening, when Megan Fairchild and Andrew Veyette make debuts in Balanchine's ''Allegro Brillante.'' (Through June 21.) Thursday and Friday at 8 p.m.; Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m.; Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:30 p.m.; David H. Koch Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nycballet.com; $20 to $105. (Sulcas)
 WENDY OSSERMAN DANCE COMPANY (Thursday) Wendy Osserman has been making quirky, highly individual work for years, and her new ''more is more is more or less'' is likely to be as particular as ever. As the title suggests, the work is inspired by Gertrude Stein, and it features the strange and wonderful singer/violinist Iva Bittova, who is capable of producing some of the oddest sounds ever made by a human voice. The artist Sarah Olson contributes ''visual elements.'' (Through May 24.) At 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 352-3101, joyce.org; $20; $15 for students and 65+. (Sulcas)
 AYNSLEY VANDENBROUCKE MOVEMENT GROUP (Friday through Sunday) Aynsley Vandenbroucke is an elegant, sensitive thinker. Her ''3 Dancers, 4 Chairs, 26 Words,'' a premiere presented in conjunction with photographs by Mathew Pokoik, will most likely contain numerous quiet pleasures. At 8 p.m., Center for Performance Research, 361 Manhattan Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (212) 868-4444, movementgroup.org; $12. (La Rocco) 
 CHRISTOPHER WILLIAMS (Friday and Saturday) ''The Golden Legend,'' Mr. Williams's new work, offers an embarrassment of riches in its portrayal of 17 saints: many astonishing dancers, including Julian Barnett, Reid Bartelme, Luke Miller, David Neumann and Arturo Vidich; a live score employing music stretching back to the 12th century; and puppets by Eric Wright, Lake Simons and Mr. Williams himself. Here's to grand visions in dark times. At 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077, dancetheaterworkshop.org; $10 to $15. (La Rocco) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mark Morris Dance Group: ''Romeo & Juliet, on Motifs of Shakespeare,'' above, wraps up Lincoln Center's season-long series on the music of Sergei Prokofiev. The work, running this weekend at the Rose Theater, is set to a recently discovered version of Prokofiev's score that reveals the composer's original intentions for the piece.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GENE SCHIAVONE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (92%); DANCE (92%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); DANCERS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); CHOREOGRAPHY (79%); OPERA (73%); BOMBINGS (60%); VIETNAM WAR (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (83%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (53%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



527 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2111 words

HEADLINE: For Frozen Entrees, 'Heat and Eat' Isn't Enough

BYLINE: By MICHAEL MOSS; Andrew Martin contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The frozen pot pies that sickened an estimated 15,000 people with salmonella in 2007 left federal inspectors mystified. At first they suspected the turkey. Then they considered the peas, carrots and potatoes. 
 The pie maker, ConAgra Foods, began spot-checking the vegetables for pathogens, but could not find the culprit. It also tried cooking the vegetables at high temperatures, a strategy the industry calls a ''kill step,'' to wipe out any lingering microbes. But the vegetables turned to mush in the process. 
 So ConAgra -- which sold more than 100 million pot pies last year under its popular Banquet label -- decided to make the consumer responsible for the kill step. The ''food safety'' instructions and four-step diagram on the 69-cent pies offer this guidance: ''Internal temperature needs to reach 165degrees F as measured by a food thermometer in several spots.''
 Increasingly, the corporations that supply Americans with processed foods are unable to guarantee the safety of their ingredients. In this case, ConAgra could not pinpoint which of the more than 25 ingredients in its pies was carrying salmonella. Other companies do not even know who is supplying their ingredients, let alone if those suppliers are screening the items for microbes and other potential dangers, interviews and documents show. 
 Yet the supply chain for ingredients in processed foods -- from flavorings to flour to fruits and vegetables -- is becoming more complex and global as the drive to keep food costs down intensifies. As a result, almost every element, not just red meat and poultry, is now a potential carrier of pathogens, government and industry officials concede.
 In addition to ConAgra, other food giants like Nestle and the Blackstone Group, a New York firm that acquired the Swanson and Hungry-Man brands two years ago, concede that they cannot ensure the safety of items -- from frozen vegetables to pizzas -- and that they are shifting the burden to the consumer. General Mills, which recalled about five million frozen pizzas in 2007 after an E. coli outbreak, now advises consumers to avoid microwaves and cook only with conventional ovens. ConAgra has also added food safety instructions to its other frozen meals, including the Healthy Choice brand.
 Peanuts were considered unlikely culprits for pathogens until earlier this year when a processing plant in Georgia was blamed for salmonella poisoning that is estimated to have killed nine people and sickened 27,000. Now, white pepper is being blamed for dozens of salmonella illnesses on the West Coast, where a widening recall includes other spices and six tons of frozen egg rolls.
 The problem is particularly acute with frozen foods, in which unwitting consumers who buy these products for their convenience mistakenly think that their cooking is a matter of taste and not safety.
 Federal regulators have pushed companies to beef up their cooking instructions with the detailed ''food safety'' guides. But the response has been varied, as a review of packaging showed. Some manufacturers fail to list explicit instructions; others include abbreviated guidelines on the side of their boxes in tiny print. A Hungry-Man pot pie asks consumers to ensure that the pie reaches a temperature that is 11 degrees short of the government-established threshold for killing pathogens. Questioned about the discrepancy, Blackstone acknowledged it was using an older industry standard that it would rectify when it printed new cartons. 
 Government food safety officials also point to efforts by the Partnership for Food Safety Education, a nonprofit group founded by the Clinton administration. But the partnership consists of a two-person staff and an annual budget of $300,000. Its director, Shelley Feist, said she has wanted to start a campaign to advise consumers about frozen foods, but lacks the money. 
 Estimating the risk to consumers is difficult. The industry says that it is acting with an abundance of caution, and that big outbreaks of food-borne illness are rare. At the same time, a vast majority of the estimated 76 million cases of food-borne illness every year go unreported or are not traced to the source.
 Home Cooking
 Some food safety experts say they do not think the solution should rest with the consumer. Dr. Michael T. Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota, said companies like ConAgra were asking too much. ''I do not believe that it is fair to put this responsibility on the back of the consumer, when there is substantial confusion about what it means to prepare that product,'' Dr. Osterholm said.
 And the ingredient chain for frozen and other processed foods is poised to get more convoluted, industry insiders say. While the global market for ingredients is projected to reach $34 billion next year, the pressure to keep food prices down in a recession is forcing food companies to look for ways to cut costs.
 Ensuring the safety of ingredients has been further complicated as food companies subcontract processing work to save money: smaller companies prepare flavor mixes and dough that a big manufacturer then assembles. ''There is talk of having passports for ingredients,'' said Jamie Rice, the marketing director of RTS Resource, a research firm based in England. ''At each stage they are signed off on for quality and safety. That would help companies, if there is a scare, in tracing back.''
 But government efforts to impose tougher trace-back requirements for ingredients have met with resistance from food industry groups including the Grocery Manufacturers Association, which complained to the Food and Drug Administration: ''This information is not reasonably needed and it is often not practical or possible to provide it.''
 Now, in the wake of polls that show food poisoning incidents are shaking shopper confidence, the group is re-evaluating its position. A new industry guide produced by the group urges companies to test for salmonella and cites recent outbreaks from cereal, children's snacks and other dry foods that companies have mistakenly considered immune to pathogens.
 Research on raw ingredients, the guide notes, has found salmonella in 0.14 percent to 1.3 percent of the wheat flour sampled, and up to 8 percent of the raw spices tested.
 ConAgra's pot pie outbreak began on Feb. 20, 2007, and by the time it trailed off nine months later 401 cases of salmonella infection had been identified in 41 states, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which estimates that for every reported case, an additional 38 are not detected or reported.
 It took until June 2007 for health officials to discover the illnesses were connected, and in October they traced the salmonella to Banquet pot pies made at ConAgra's plant in Marshall, Mo.
 While investigators who went to the plant were never able to pinpoint the salmonella source, inspectors for the United States Department of Agriculture focused on the vegetables, a federal inspection document shows.
 ConAgra had not been requiring its suppliers to test the vegetables for pathogens, even though some were being shipped from Latin America. Nor was ConAgra conducting its own pathogen tests.
 The company says the outbreak and management changes prompted it to undertake a broad range of safety initiatives, including testing for microbes in all of the pie ingredients. ConAgra said it was also trying to apply the kill step to as many ingredients as possible, but had not yet found a way to accomplish it without making the pies ''unpalatable.''
 Its Banquetpies now have some of the most graphic food safety instructions, complete with a depiction of a thermometer piercing the crust.
 Pressed to say whether the meals are safe to eat if consumers disregard the instructions or make an error, Stephanie Childs, a company spokeswoman, said, ''Our goal is to provide the consumer with as safe a product as possible, and we are doing everything within our ability to provide a safe product to them.''
 ''We are always improving food safety,'' Ms. Childs said. ''This is a long ongoing process.''
 The U.S.D.A. said it required companies to show that their cooking instructions, when properly followed, would kill any pathogens. ConAgra says it has done such testing to validate its instructions.
 Getting to 'Kill Step'
 But attempts by The New York Times to follow the directions on several brands of frozen meals, including ConAgra's Banquet pot pies, failed to achieve the required 165-degree temperature. Some spots in the pies heated to only 140 degrees even as parts of the crust were burnt. 
 A ConAgra consumer hotline operator said the claims by microwave-oven manufacturers about their wattage power could not be trusted, and that any pies not heated enough should not be eaten. ''We definitely want it to reach that 165-degree temperature,'' she said. ''It's a safety issue.''
 In 2007, the U.S.D.A.'s inspection of the ConAgra plant in Missouri found records that showed some of ConAgra's own testing of its directions failed to achieve ''an adequate lethality'' in several products, including its Chicken Fried Beef Steak dinner. Even 18 minutes in a large conventional oven brought the pudding in a Kid Cuisine Chicken Breast Nuggets meal to only 142 degrees, the federal agency found.
 Besides improving its own cooking directions, ConAgra says it has alerted other frozen food manufacturers to the food safety issues. 
 But in the absence of meaningful federal rules, other frozen-dinner makers that face the same problem with ingredients are taking varied steps, some less rigorous. Jim Seiple, a food safety official with the Blackstone unit that makes Swanson and Hungry-Man pot pies, said the company tested for pathogens, but only after preliminary tests for bacteria that were considered indicators of pathogens -- a method that ConAgra abandoned after its salmonella outbreak.
 The pot pie instructions have built-in margins of error, Mr. Seiple said, and the risk to consumers depended on ''how badly they followed our directions.''
 Some frozen food companies are taking different approaches to pathogens. Amy's Kitchen, a California company that specializes in natural frozen foods, says it precooks its ingredients to kill any potential pathogens before its pot pies and other products leave the factory.
 Using a bacteriological testing laboratory, The Times checked several pot pies made by Amy's and the three leading brands, and while none contained salmonella or E. coli, one pie each of two brands -- Banquet, and the Stouffer's brand made by Nestle -- had significant levels of T. coliform. 
 These bacteria are common in many foods and are not considered harmful. But their presence in these products include raw ingredients and leave open ''a potential for contamination,'' said Harvey Klein, the director of Garden State Laboratories in New Jersey.
 A Nestle spokeswoman said the company enhanced its food safety instructions in the wake of ConAgra's salmonella outbreak. 
 Danger in the Fridge
 ConAgra's episode has raised its visibility among victims like Ryan Warren, a 25-year-old law school student in Washington. A Seattle lawyer, Bill Marler, brought suit against ConAgra on behalf of Mr. Warren's daughter Zoe, who had just turned 1 year old when she was fed a pot pie that he says put her in the hospital for a terrifying weekend of high fever and racing pulse.
 ''You don't assume these dangers to be right in your freezer,'' said Mr. Warren, who settled with ConAgra. He does not own a food thermometer and was not certain his microwave oven met the minimum 1,100-wattage requirement in the new pot pie instructions. ''I do think that consumers bear responsibility to reasonably look out for their well-being, but the entire reason for this product to exist is for its convenience.''
 Public health officials who interviewed the Warrens and other victims of the pot-pie contamination found that fewer than one in three knew the wattage of their microwave ovens, according to the C.D.C. report on the outbreak. The report notes, however, that nearly one in four of the victims reported cooking their pies in conventional ovens. 
 For more than a decade, the U.S.D.A. has also sought to encourage consumers to use food thermometers. But the agency's statistics on how many Americans do so are discouraging. According to its Web site, not quite half the population has one, and only 3 percent use it when cooking high-risk foods like hamburgers. No data was available on how many people use thermometers on pot pies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Banquet pot pies include exacting cooking instructions in order to kill any possible pathogens.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
Banquet pot pies, made by ConAgra Foods, sickened thousands with salmonella in 2007.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Zoe Warren, 2, with her parents, Ryan and Melissa. Zoe spent a weekend in the hospital with high fever after eating a pot pie. The pies, left, warn that they must be ''thoroughly'' cooked.(PHOTOGRAPHS, ABOVE, BY EVELYN HOCKSTEIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
BELOW, BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 General Mills recalled about five million Totino's and Jeno's frozen pizzas in 2007. Uncle Chen was among the brands of white pepper recalled this spring.(A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FROZEN FOODS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); BACTERIA (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); FROZEN FOODS MFG (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); PRODUCT SAFETY (89%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (89%); FOOD SAFETY (89%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (89%); PREPARED FOODS (83%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); POULTRY (78%); FOOD PRICES (77%); E COLI (77%); FOOD MFG (77%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (76%); THERMAL SENSORS (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (61%)

COMPANY: CONAGRA FOODS INC (96%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (53%); NESTLE SA (53%); GENERAL MILLS INC (52%)

TICKER: CAG (NYSE) (96%); BX (NYSE) (53%); NESN (SWX) (53%); GIS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (96%); NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (96%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (96%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (96%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (96%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (53%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (52%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (52%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (52%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



528 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: Years After Resigning in Disgrace, an Archbishop Is Speaking Out

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

 BODY:
In spring 2002, as the scandal over sexual abuse by Roman Catholic priests was escalating, the long career of Archbishop Rembert G. Weakland of Milwaukee, one of the church's most venerable voices for change, went up in flames one May morning. 
 On the ABC program ''Good Morning America,'' the archbishop watched a man he had fallen in love with 23 years earlier say in an interview that the Milwaukee archdiocese had paid him $450,000 years before to keep quiet about his affair with the archbishop -- an affair the man was now calling date rape.
 The next day, the Vatican accepted Archbishop Weakland's retirement. 
 Archbishop Weakland, who had been the intellectual touchstone for church reformers, has said little publicly since then. But now, in an interview and in a memoir scheduled for release next month, he is speaking out about how internal church politics affected his response to the fallout from his affair; how bishops and the Vatican cared more about the rights of abusive priests than about their victims; and why Catholic teaching on homosexuality is wrong. 
 ''If we say our God is an all-loving god,'' he said, ''how do you explain that at any given time probably 400 million living on the planet at one time would be gay? Are the religions of the world, as does Catholicism, saying to those hundreds of millions of people, you have to pass your whole life without any physical, genital expression of that love?''
 He said he had been aware of his homosexual orientation since he was a teenager and suppressed it until he became archbishop, when he had relationships with several men because of ''loneliness that became very strong.'' 
 Archbishop Weakland, 82, said he was probably the first bishop to come out of the closet voluntarily. He said he was doing so not to excuse his actions but to give an honest account of why it happened and to raise questions about the church's teaching that homosexuality is ''objectively disordered.''
 ''Those are bad words because they are pejorative,'' he said. 
 Archbishop Weakland's autobiography, ''A Pilgrim in a Pilgrim Church'' (William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company), covers his hardscrabble youth in Pennsylvania, his election as the worldwide leader of the Benedictine Order and his appointment by Pope Paul VI to the archbishop's seat in Milwaukee, where he served for 25 years. 
 ''He was one of the most gifted leaders in the post-Vatican II church in America,'' said the Rev. Jim Martin, a Jesuit priest and associate editor of America, a Catholic magazine, ''and certainly beloved by the left, and sadly that gave his critics more ammunition.''
 In an interview at the Archbishop Weakland Center, which houses the archdiocesan cathedral offices in downtown Milwaukee, Archbishop Weakland said the church opened itself to change in the 1960s and '70s after the Second Vatican Council but became increasingly centralized and doctrinally rigid under Pope John Paul II. 
 Archbishop Weakland was among those who publicly questioned the need for a male-only celibate priesthood. He also led American bishops in a two-year process of writing a pastoral letter on economic justice, holding hearings on the subject across the country.
 A later effort by the American bishops to issue a pastoral letter on women was quashed by the Vatican, he said, because the Vatican did not want to give the national bishops conferences the authority to issue sweeping teaching documents. 
 The archbishop said it was partly because of his strained relations with Pope John Paul II that he did not tell Vatican officials in 1997 when he was threatened with a lawsuit by Paul J. Marcoux, the man with whom he had a relationship nearly 20 years before and who had appeared on ''Good Morning America.''
 Mr. Marcoux said then that he had been deprived of income from marketing a project he called ''Christodrama'' because of Archbishop Weakland's interference. Archbishop Weakland said he probably should have gone to Rome and explained that he had had a relationship with Mr. Marcoux, that he had ended it by writing an emotional letter that Mr. Marcoux still had and that the archbishop's lawyers regarded Mr. Marcoux's threats as blackmail. 
 But, the archbishop said, a highly placed friend in Rome advised him that church officials preferred that such things be hushed up, which is ''the Roman way.'' 
 ''I suppose, also, being frank, I wouldn't have wanted to be labeled in Rome at that point as gay,'' Archbishop Weakland said. ''Rome is a little village.'' 
 Asked if he had regrets about the $450,000 payment to Mr. Marcoux, he said, ''I certainly worry about the sum.'' 
 The morning in 2002 that Mr. Marcoux surfaced on national television, Archbishop Weakland said he phoned the pope's representative, or apostolic nuncio, in Washington -- Archbishop Gabriel Montalvo -- who, he said, told him, ''Of course you are going to deny it.''
 Archbishop Weakland said he told the nuncio that while he could deny emphatically that it was date rape, ''I can't deny that something happened between us.'' (Archbishop Montalvo died in 2006.)
 Archbishop Weakland is still pained that his scandal, involving a man in his 30s, became intertwined with the larger church scandal over child sexual abuse. 
 But at the time, many Catholics in Milwaukee said they were angrier about the secret settlement with Mr. Marcoux than with the sexual liaison.
 Archbishop Weakland and the Milwaukee archdiocese are also the target of several lawsuits accusing them of failing to remove abusive priests, allowing more minors to be victimized.
 In the interview, he blamed psychologists for advising bishops that perpetrators could be treated and returned to work, and he blamed the Vatican's tribunals for spending years debating whether to remove abusers from the priesthood. In one case, he said, the Vatican courts took so long deciding whether to defrock a priest who had abused dozens of deaf students that the priest died before a decision was reached. 
 ''The concern was more about the priests than about the victims,'' Archbishop Weakland said.
 In Milwaukee, Peter Isely, the Midwest director of the Survivors Network of Those Abused by Priests, said Archbishop Weakland ultimately failed his people.
 Mr. Isely pointed out that while Archbishop Weakland was waiting for the Vatican courts to defrock abusive priests, he allowed them to continue working in ministry without informing parishioners of their past. And he said the $450,000 payment was particularly galling to victims because many received ''no compensation whatsoever.'' 
 In June, Archbishop Weakland, who has been living in a Catholic retirement community since his resignation, is moving to St. Mary's Abbey in Morristown, N.J., where he said he would be closer to his family in Pennsylvania and grow old in the care of a community of Benedictine monks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''The concern was more about the priests than about the victims.'' ARCHBISHOP REMBERT G. WEAKLAND
 The former leader of the Milwaukee archdiocese on how the Vatican spent years debating whether to remove child abusers from the priesthood.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); SEX SCANDALS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (87%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (72%); PUBLISHING (68%)

COMPANY: WILLIAM B EERDMANS PUBLISHING CO (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (93%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); HOLY SEE (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



529 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ARCHITECTURE; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Architect Without Limits

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
Frank Lloyd Wright died half a century ago, but people are still fighting over him.
 The extraordinary scope of his genius, which touched on every aspect of American life, makes him one of the most daunting figures of the 20th century. But to many he is still the vain, megalomaniacal architect, someone who trampled over his clients' wishes, drained their bank accounts and left them with leaky roofs.
 So ''Frank Lloyd Wright: From Within Outward,'' which opens on Friday at the Guggenheim Museum, will be a disappointment to some. The show offers no new insight into his life's work. Nor is there any real sense of what makes him so controversial. It's a chaste show, as if the Guggenheim, which is celebrating its 50th anniversary, was determined to make Wright fit for civilized company.
 The advantage of this low-key approach is that it puts the emphasis back where it belongs: on the work. There are more than 200 drawings, many never exhibited publicly before. More than a dozen scale models, some commissioned for the show, give a strong sense of the lucidity of his designs and the intimate relationship between building and landscape that was such a central theme of his art. 
 Taken as a whole, the exhibition conveys not only the remarkable scope of his interests, which ranged from affordable housing to reimagining the American city, but also the astonishing cohesiveness of that vision
 -- an achievement that has been matched by only one or two other architects in the 20th century.
 One way to experience the show is as a straightforward tour of Wright's masterpieces. Organized by Thomas Krens and David van der Leer, it is arranged in roughly chronological order, so that you can spiral up through the highlights of his career: the reinvention of the suburban home and the office block, the obsession with car culture, the increasingly outlandish urban projects.
 There is a stunning plaster model of the vaultlike interior of Unity Temple, built in Oak Park between 1905 and 1908. Just a bit farther up the ramp, another model painstakingly recreates the Great Workroom of the Johnson Wax Headquarters in Racine, Wis., with its delicate grid of mushroom columns and milky glass ceiling.
 Such tightly composed, inward-looking structures contrast with the free-flowing spaces that we tend to associate with Wright's fantasy of a democratic, agrarian society.
 But as always with Wright, the complexity of his approach reveals itself only after you begin to fit the pieces together. For Wright, the singular masterpiece was never enough. His aim was to create a framework for an entire new way of life, one that completely redefined the relationships between individual, family and community. And he pursued it with missionary zeal.
 Wright went to extreme lengths to sell his dream of affordable housing for the masses, tirelessly promoting it in magazines.
 The second-floor annex shows a small sampling of its various incarnations, including an elaborate model of the Jacobs House (1936-37), its walls and floors pulled apart and suspended from the ceiling on a system of wires and lead weights. One of Wright's earliest Usonian houses, the one-story Jacobs structure in Madison, Wis., was made of modest wood and brick and organized around a central hearth. Its L-shape layout framed a rectangular lawn, locking it into the landscape, so that the homeowner remained in close touch with the earth.
 The ideas Wright explored in such projects were eventually woven into grander urban fantasies, first proposed in Broadacre City and later in The Living City project. In both, Usonian communities were dispersed over an endless matrix of highways and farmland, punctuated by the occasional residential tower. 
 The subtext of these plans, of course, was Wright's war with the city. To Wright, the congested neighborhoods of the traditional city were anathema to the spirit of unbridled individual freedom. His alternative, shaped by the car, represented a landscape of endless horizons. Sadly, it was also a model for suburban sprawl.
 Wright continued to explore these themes until the end of his life, even as his formal language evolved. A model of the Gordon Strong Automobile Objective and Planetarium captures his growing obsession with the ziggurat and the spiral. A tourist destination that was planned for Sugarloaf Mountain, Md., but never built, the massive concrete structure coiled around a vast planetarium. The project combines his love of cars and his fascination with primitive forms, as if he were striving to weave together the whole continuum of human history.
 In his 1957 Plan for Greater Baghdad, Wright went a step further, adapting his ideas to the heart of the ancient city. The plan is centered on a spectacular opera house enclosed beneath a spiraling dome and crowned by a statue of Alladin. Set on an island in the Tigris, the opera house was to be surrounded by tiers of parking and public gardens. A network of roadways extends like tendrils from this base, weaving along the edge of the river and tying the complex to the old city.
 Just across the river, another ring of parking, almost a mile in diameter, encloses a new campus for Baghdad University.
 Wright's fanciful design was never built, but it demonstrates the degree to which he remained distrustful of urban centers. Stubborn to the end, he saw the car as the city's salvation rather than its ruin. The cosmopolitan ideal is supplanted by a sprawling suburbia shaded by palms and date trees.
 And what of the Guggenheim? Some will continue to see it as an example of Wright's brazen indifference to the city's history. With its aloof attitude toward the Manhattan street grid, the building still pushes buttons.
 For his part, Wright saw the spiral as a symbol of life and rebirth. The reflecting pool at the bottom of his rotunda represented a seed, part of his vision of an organic architecture that sprouts directly from the earth.
 Yet Wright also needed the city to make his vision work. The force of the spiral's upward thrust gains immeasurably from the grid that presses in on all sides. The ramps, too, can be read as an extension of the street life outside. Coiled tightly around the audience, they replicate the atmosphere of urban intensity that Wright supposedly so abhorred.
 Or maybe not. In preparing for the show, the Guggenheim's curators decided to remove the frosting from a window at the lobby's southwest corner. The window frames a vista over a low retaining wall toward the corner of 88th Street and Fifth Avenue, where you can see people milling around the exterior of the building. It is the only real view out of the lobby, and it visually locks the building into the streetscape, making the city part of the composition. 
 I choose to see it as a gesture of love, of a sort, between Wright and the city he claimed to hate. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Frank Lloyd Wright: From Within Outward,: an exhibition to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Guggenheim Museum. Below, Frank Lloyd Wright in 1957.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Models of Wright designs: top, the Gordon Strong Automobile Objective and Planetarium, which was never built
above, Beth Sholom Synagogue in Elkins Park, Pa.
 The original model of the Guggenheim Museum in the exhibition ''Frank Lloyd Wright: From Within Outward.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); EXHIBITIONS (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); FAMILY (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); SUBURBS (65%); CITY LIFE (64%); CITIES (64%); WOMEN (62%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

COMPANY: S C JOHNSON & SON INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325612 POLISH & OTHER SANITATION GOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2842 SPECIALTY CLEANING, POLISHING, & SANITATION PREPARATIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2009



530 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Jump in Food Costs Drives Up Price Index

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Wholesale prices in the United States rose slightly in April, the government reported on Thursday, as falling oil and gasoline prices leveled off and food prices rose the most in a year. 
 The Labor Department reported that prices received by producers of finished goods rose 0.3 percent last month, further discounting the prospect that the economy was veering into a vicious cycle of lower prices and lower wages known as deflation.
 But for some economists, the prospect of rising energy and food prices at a time of deep unemployment and shrinking wages raised concerns that strapped consumers could see their cost of living rise even as the job market continued to get worse. 
 Although falling producer and consumer prices raised fears about deflation last year as the recession deepened and the financial crisis broke, the end of $4-a-gallon gas and lower heating and energy costs effectively put billions of dollars into consumers' pockets. 
 ''There's this squeeze going on,'' John E. Silvia, chief economist at Wachovia Corporation, said. ''We still have job losses. We still have a lot of pressure. And now you're going to tell me that a lot of these basic commodities are rising? People's real income is going to get squeezed.''
 The price index for intermediate goods fell 0.5 percent while the price for crude goods rose 3 percent because of rising food and energy prices.
 Wholesale and consumer prices have stabilized somewhat this year, although producer prices are down 3.7 percent from last April. The Federal Reserve said it was concerned about anemically low inflation, but expected that inflation would run at a rate of 0.3 percent to 1 percent this year.
 Much of the increase in producer prices in April was the result of a 1.5 percent jump in food prices. Egg prices rose sharply while prices for beef, coffee, vegetables and fresh fruit also increased.
 Gasoline prices rose 2.6 percent, reflecting the end of a plunge in crude oil prices after rounds of production cuts by the OPEC cartel and a plateau in demand for oil and gasoline. Crude prices have risen from their recent lows of $33 a barrel to almost $60, and gasoline prices have ticked up to nearly $2.30 a gallon, according to AAA, the automobile club.
 The so-called core Producer Price Index, which excludes food and energy prices, rose 0.1 percent after staying flat a month earlier. 
 Also on Thursday, the Labor Department reported that first-time claims for unemployment rose more than expected last week, to 637,000 from a revised 605,000 the week before. Much of the increase was to the result of layoffs in the automobile industry, which is shrinking rapidly as it tries to stay afloat.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Producer Prices: Index of finished goods prices, 1982 =100, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Labor Department)
 Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.(Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD PRICES (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEFLATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); PRODUCER PRICES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); RECESSION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); COST OF LIVING (76%); CARTELS (73%); BEEF (73%); COFFEE MARKETS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



531 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Danger in Wall Street's Shadows

BYLINE: By FRANK PARTNOY. 
Frank Partnoy is a law professor at the University of San Diego and the author of ''The Match King: Ivar Kreuger, the Financial Genius Behind a Century of Wall Street Scandals.''

DATELINE: San Diego 

 BODY:
 ON Wednesday, the Obama administration fired a shot across the bow of lobbyists -- and their friends in Congress -- who have been guarding against regulation of derivatives, the financial instruments at the center of the financial crisis. In a brief letter, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner suggested how new laws might help regulators oversee this $600 trillion shadow market. 
 For nearly two decades, derivatives have been at the center of every major financial calamity -- from the bankruptcy of Orange County in California to Long-Term Capital Management to Enron to the recent subprime mortgage collapse. Yet over time, derivatives have become subject to progressively less regulation. Following the lead of the Federal Reserve chairman at the time, Alan Greenspan, both political parties in the 1990s agreed with Wall Street that derivatives should be permitted to grow unchecked. 
 Why are derivatives so problematic? Although they have useful purposes, particularly for hedging risks -- as when an airline bets on increases in jet fuel prices -- they frequently are used to avoid the disclosure rules applied to other financial transactions. A.I.G. held tens of billions of dollars of subprime mortgage-related derivatives, but did not tell its investors or counterparties.
 Citigroup, Lehman Brothers and other banks used derivatives to place hidden trillion-dollar bets. Even now, numerous institutions are using derivatives to skirt investment restrictions or to take on unwarranted leverage. 
 This is an old story: during the 1920s, complicated techniques helped companies move risks off balance sheets or into off-shore subsidiaries. In response to the fall of Ivar Kreuger, the financier who pioneered these innovations, Congress adopted the securities laws of the 1930s, designed to plug two key regulatory gaps by requiring more disclosure and protecting investors against fraud. 
 Mr. Geithner's proposal has the same twin goals: to improve disclosure and to police unsuitable sales of derivatives. These reforms are much needed. Banks might not have taken on so much subprime mortgage risk if they had been required to disclose it. Nor would they have marketed unsuitable products to pension funds and municipalities if they had more clearly been subject to liability.
 Yet there is one potential weakness in the Treasury proposal, one that reopens a dangerous loophole. Mr. Geithner suggested that derivatives should be split between standardized instruments, which would be traded on regulated exchanges, and privately negotiated contracts, customized deals (often called ''swaps'') that are made between two financial organizations and would not be publicly traded or regulated. Rather, such transactions would be reported privately to a ''trade repository,'' which apparently would make only limited aggregate data available to the public. 
 This proposal of Mr. Geithner's also echoes history, but in a more dangerous way. In 1989, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, a federal agency then led by Wendy Gramm, an economist and the wife of Senator Phil Gramm, a Texas Republican, issued a policy statement splitting derivatives into these same two categories. Standardized derivatives would be traded on exchanges, but individually negotiated contracts would not. Four years later, Ms. Gramm signed an order making this policy official, a sort of farewell gift to the derivatives industry before she left government service and took a place on Enron's board.
 The exception swallowed the rule, as regulators deemed more derivatives ''individually negotiated.'' In December 2000 Senator Gramm led a lobbying effort to cement his wife's approach. It paid off: one of President Bill Clinton's last official acts was to sign the law largely deregulating derivatives.
 The leading derivatives lobbying group, the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, is already looking to exploit the Treasury's proposal to split derivatives markets in two. As part of its lobbying campaign to protect negotiated instruments, it insists that last year ''the derivatives business -- and in particular the credit default swaps business -- functioned very effectively during extremely difficult market conditions.'' 
 Congress should not be fooled by such talk again. The current crisis is proof that although most people do not trade derivatives, everyone is subject to their risks. All derivatives, exchange-traded or private, must be in the sunlight. If institutions want to negotiate individual derivatives contracts, they should tell investors the full details of their exposure.
 For decades, the American financial markets attracted capital because investors believed they were getting the information they needed. That faith has been shaken. To restore it, Congress should enact all of Mr. Geithner's proposals, except one: it should not permit any private derivatives to grow in the dark. Otherwise, today's exception will become tomorrow's rule.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); FUTURES (72%); PENSION FUNDS (71%); FUEL MARKETS (71%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (71%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); JET FUEL (67%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (50%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); ALAN GREENSPAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



532 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Six Insurers Named to Get Taxpayer Aid

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH and DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
Six major insurance companies have received preliminary approval to get billions of dollars in fresh capital as part of the government's financial rescue program, a Treasury Department spokesman confirmed on Thursday.
 The department said the Hartford Financial Services Group, Prudential Financial, Lincoln National, Allstate, Ameriprise and Principal Financial Group have all received approval for capital infusions, subject to terms still to be negotiated.
 The Hartford, in a statement released late Thursday, said it was told it could receive $3.4 billion under the program. 
 Applying for the additional capital ''was a prudent step for the Hartford, particularly given the continued economic uncertainty,'' said Ramani Ayer, the company's chairman and chief executive.
 ''These funds would further fortify our capital resources and provide us with additional financial flexibility during one of the most volatile market climates in our nation's history,'' Mr. Ayer continued. The other companies did not immediately provide details about the status of their application.
 Under the program, each company is eligible to receive investments worth up to 3 percent of its total assets. Based on the Treasury formula, the amount of capital available to the other companies would be at least several billion dollars each. 
 While the extension of additional capital to insurers had been widely expected, these are the first companies that have been identified to receive aid after the near-collapse of American International Group. According to the Treasury spokesman, Andrew Williams, these insurers qualified for capital infusions under the department's Capital Purchase Program because each had restructured itself as a bank holding company and met the November deadline for the program.
 Hundreds of other financial institutions are still in the pipeline for review and will be approved on a rolling basis, the Treasury Department said.
 As the financial crisis erupted last fall, A.I.G. became the first insurer to receive substantial government aid before a broad-based program to help financial firms was established. Its problems stemmed from complex derivatives that greatly increased its obligations to its trading partners. 
 This recent group of insurers is far less troubled than A.I.G., but they still have been hurt by the collapse in real estate prices. Amid the housing boom, many insurers invested in complex mortgage-related securities that have since turned sour, weakening their balance sheets. 
 Indeed, several insurance companies took extraordinary steps to qualify for taxpayer money, which has become even more attractive as the economic environment has worsened.
 For example, Lincoln National and the Hartford both bought up smaller banks to qualify as savings banks, which made them eligible for government support.
 The insurers followed investment banks Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, which received emergency waivers from the Federal Reserve to become bank holding companies last fall.
 GMAC, the auto lender, and American Express, the credit card company, also have transformed themselves into banks to qualify for government support.
 ''You want the regulatory program to be as broad as possible,'' said Scott E. Talbott, a lobbyist for the Financial Roundtable, a group of the nation's biggest financial services companies. ''If all it took was regulatory gymnastics, that expands the program.''
 The Capital Purchase Program is part of the sweeping bailout of financial institutions that grew out of the panic that hit in mid-September.
 At that time, the Treasury Department, with the backing of the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, asked Congress for $700 billion to buy up mortgage-backed securities whose value had dropped sharply or had become impossible to sell, in what he called the Troubled Asset Rescue Plan, or TARP.
 As the financial crisis worsened, the TARP plan was modified and expanded to include various support programs set up by the Treasury and the Federal Reserve, ranging from an ad hoc temporary guarantee program for money market funds to the purchase of preferred shares in various financial institutions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CARDS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); CAPITAL PURCHASE PROGRAM (72%); SAVINGS & LOANS (71%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); HOUSING MARKET (68%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (60%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (60%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (60%); EXECUTIVES (54%); HISTORY (53%)

COMPANY: HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (90%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL GROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); ALLSTATE CORP (58%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (50%)

TICKER: HIG (NYSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%); AMP (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); PFG (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%); ALL (NYSE) (58%); PRU (NYSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (90%); NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (90%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6733 TRUSTS, EXCEPT EDUCATIONAL, RELIGIOUS, & CHARITABLE (58%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (58%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (58%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (50%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (50%)

PERSON: RAMANI AYER (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



533 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Empire Of Carbon

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan 

 BODY:
 I have seen the future, and it won't work.
 These should be hopeful times for environmentalists. Junk science no longer rules in Washington. President Obama has spoken forcefully about the need to take action on climate change; the people I talk to are increasingly optimistic that Congress will soon establish a cap-and-trade system that limits emissions of greenhouse gases, with the limits growing steadily tighter over time. And once America acts, we can expect much of the world to follow our lead.
 But that still leaves the problem of China, where I have been for most of the last week. 
 Like every visitor to China, I was awed by the scale of the country's development. Even the annoying aspects -- much of my time was spent viewing the Great Wall of Traffic -- are byproducts of the nation's economic success. 
 But China cannot continue along its current path because the planet can't handle the strain.
 The scientific consensus on prospects for global warming has become much more pessimistic over the last few years. Indeed, the latest projections from reputable climate scientists border on the apocalyptic. Why? Because the rate at which greenhouse gas emissions are rising is matching or exceeding the worst-case scenarios.
 And the growth of emissions from China -- already the world's largest producer of carbon dioxide -- is one main reason for this new pessimism. 
 China's emissions, which come largely from its coal-burning electricity plants, doubled between 1996 and 2006. That was a much faster pace of growth than in the previous decade. And the trend seems set to continue: In January, China announced that it plans to continue its reliance on coal as its main energy source and that to feed its economic growth it will increase coal production 30 percent by 2015. That's a decision that, all by itself, will swamp any emission reductions elsewhere.
 So what is to be done about the China problem?
 Nothing, say the Chinese. Each time I raised the issue during my visit, I was met with outraged declarations that it was unfair to expect China to limit its use of fossil fuels. After all, they declared, the West faced no similar constraints during its development; while China may be the world's largest source of carbon-dioxide emissions, its per-capita emissions are still far below American levels; and anyway, the great bulk of the global warming that has already happened is due not to China but to the past carbon emissions of today's wealthy nations. 
 And they're right. It is unfair to expect China to live within constraints that we didn't have to face when our own economy was on its way up. But that unfairness doesn't change the fact that letting China match the West's past profligacy would doom the Earth as we know it.
 Historical injustice aside, the Chinese also insisted that they should not be held responsible for the greenhouse gases they emit when producing goods for foreign consumers. But they refused to accept the logical implication of this view -- that the burden should fall on those foreign consumers instead, that shoppers who buy Chinese products should pay a ''carbon tariff'' that reflects the emissions associated with those goods' production. That, said the Chinese, would violate the principles of free trade.
 Sorry, but the climate-change consequences of Chinese production have to be taken into account somewhere. And anyway, the problem with China is not so much what it produces as how it produces it. Remember, China now emits more carbon dioxide than the United States, even though its G.D.P. is only about half as large (and the United States, in turn, is an emissions hog compared with Europe or Japan).
 The good news is that the very inefficiency of China's energy use offers huge scope for improvement. Given the right policies, China could continue to grow rapidly without increasing its carbon emissions. But first it has to realize that policy changes are necessary.
 There are hints, in statements emanating from China, that the country's policy makers are starting to realize that their current position is unsustainable. But I suspect that they don't realize how quickly the whole game is about to change. 
 As the United States and other advanced countries finally move to confront climate change, they will also be morally empowered to confront those nations that refuse to act. Sooner than most people think, countries that refuse to limit their greenhouse gas emissions will face sanctions, probably in the form of taxes on their exports. They will complain bitterly that this is protectionism, but so what? Globalization doesn't do much good if the globe itself becomes unlivable.
 It's time to save the planet. And like it or not, China will have to do its part. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); POWER PLANTS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); COAL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (69%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (69%); MINING OUTPUT (69%); COAL MINING (64%); COAL INDUSTRY (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



534 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Budget Crisis In California Could Claim Landmarks

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Want to buy a coliseum? Well, now's your chance. 
 In yet another sign of California's seemingly endless financial crisis, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger announced Thursday that a growing budget deficit would lead to layoffs of 5,000 state employees; the elimination and consolidation of a raft of state boards, bureaus and committees; and the possible sale of some of the state's best-known properties, including the Los Angeles Coliseum, San Quentin State Prison and the state fairgrounds. 
 ''Every single thing that we're doing here,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said, ''is very tough.'' 
 His remarks came five days before a special election on six budget-related measures, including a temporary increase in taxes, that could raise nearly $6 billion for the state. Polls have shown several of those measures failing, and the governor made little apology for using the dire budget news as a prod to persuade Californians to vote yes.
 ''I think it's very important for people to know where we're headed and what kind of cuts will come if these initiatives don't pass,'' said Mr. Schwarzenegger, who denied he was using scare tactics. 
 Even with the passage of the six measures, Mr. Schwarzenegger said, the budget gap for the coming fiscal year, beginning July 1, would be $15.4 billion and would require a $3 billion cut to education money and possibly a shorter school year, as well as cuts to social and health care services. Without passage of the measures by the voters, the gap would be $21.3 billion, with a harsher hatchet taken to education, health and social services, he said.
 The budget announcement led to a sinking feeling among state bodies already struggling under steep cuts. Mark G. Yudof, the president of the University of California, said the budget shortfall ''would have a devastating effect on the students, the faculty and the staff of the university.''
 Whatever the outcome of the election on Tuesday, it will apparently not slow the proposal for sales of properties like the Coliseum. 
 A report by the State and Consumer Services Agency listed seven state properties potentially for sale, several with the type of come-hither descriptions usually found in Manhattan real estate listings. The Cal Expo, for example, the site of the state fair, was described as being ''minutes from downtown Sacramento'' with ''excellent commercial development potential.'' (The asking price: $80 million to $150 million.) San Quentin, home to the state's death row, was promoted for its ''commanding view of the San Francisco Bay.'' (Inmates not included.) 
 Karen Bass, a Los Angeles Democrat who is the speaker of the Assembly, said she understood the state's need for money but wondered ''how selling off any of these major assets is going to help us in the short run.'' 
 The sales were just one of several plans on the table on Thursday, as Mr. Schwarzenegger, a Republican, and his director of finance, Michael C. Genest, outlined the downturn in state revenue, including the first decrease in personal income tax receipts since the Great Depression.
 Some of the plan could be put in place by the governor, while some would need legislative approval, which could be a challenge. Bills to sell San Quentin, for example, have been unsuccessfully floated in the past.
 The two men said they would ask the federal government to relax rules regarding health care payments related to the federal stimulus bill. They would also borrow up to $6 billion in costly short-term loans, something Mr. Genest admitted was ''a really bad idea.'' 
 ''But we don't have any choice,'' Mr. Genest said. ''We have to do it.'' 
 Such pronouncements have left even those legislators strongly opposed to taxes hoping for passage of the ballot measures. 
 ''We tried the easy solutions,'' said Senator Bob Huff, a Republican from Southern California, who voted against the budget but is supporting most of Tuesday's budget fixes. ''And it didn't get us to where we need to go.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); GOVERNORS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); LAYOFFS (72%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (90%); KAREN BASS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



535 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: Inquiry Focuses on Ex-Pension Official for Bush

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

 BODY:
The former Bush administration official in charge of the federal agency that guarantees pensions for 44 million Americans is under investigation over his contacts with several major Wall Street firms seeking to obtain lucrative contracts.
 The former official, Charles E. F. Millard, is also being investigated on suspicion of soliciting help from one of the winning firms in his search for a new job once he left office.
 Agency officials are now considering canceling contracts that Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and BlackRock won late last year -- worth up to $100 million in fees over a decade -- to collectively manage $2.5 billion from the agency's $49 billion portfolio.
 The allegations involving Mr. Millard, the former director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, appear in a draft report by the agency's inspector general made public Thursday. 
 The report does not identify any apparent criminal activity. But on Thursday evening, a spokeswoman for Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said the senator planned to refer the matter to the Justice Department for a civil investigation.
 Mr. Millard, in a letter to the inspector general, said he ''scrupulously complied with all legal, regulatory and ethical obligations.'' Stanley M. Brand, a Washington lawyer who specializes in ethics cases, said Mr. Millard followed the agency's rules and was now the subject of a political attack.
 The contracts were part of a broad effort Mr. Millard began shortly after he arrived at the agency in 2007 to put more of its portfolio into better-performing stocks and alternative investments like private equity and real estate. For years, the agency had been relying on Treasury bonds that offered returns that were safer and more predictable, but usually lower, than returns from stocks and alternative investments.
 Mr. Millard championed the new strategy as a way to reduce an $11 billion shortfall between the agency's obligations to make payments to future retirees and the agency's total assets. The agency serves as a guarantor for 29,000 employer-sponsored pension plans, obligations it assumes after a company goes bankrupt, like Trans World Airlines or Bethlehem Steel.
 Staff at the agency became concerned that Mr. Millard, a former Wall Street money manager and economic adviser to Rudolph W. Giuliani when he was mayor of New York, was showing favoritism to his industry friends.
 Even before the contest over who would manage the $2.5 billion formally began, executives at JPMorgan Chase offered Mr. Millard advice on how he should draft the official request for bids, sketching out possible questions that the bidders should answer -- perhaps giving JPMorgan an advantage as the firm prepared its proposal, the inspector general's report says.
 ''Attached you will see, here are some sample R.F.P. questions,'' said one e-mail message sent by a JPMorgan Chase executive to Mr. Millard and his chief of staff in July 2008, a few days before the so-called Request for Proposals was released.
 ''Allowing some bidders to propose sample questions could offer an unfair advantage to those bidders,'' the inspector general's report says.
 Contracting rules require that once bids are submitted all communication between the agency and the bidders go through a contracting officer to avoid giving any company an advantage. 
 The draft report does not charge the Wall Street firms with wrongdoing. Spokeswomen at JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and BlackRock all declined to comment.
 Mr. Millard was repeatedly warned by agency officials about the rules, which were in place last year for a blackout period -- from July 31 to Oct. 31.
 But telephone records show that Mr. Millard or his personal staff communicated with executives at BlackRock, Goldman and JP Morgan a total of 25 times during the blackout period.
 Mr. Millard, in some e-mail messages sent during that period, makes clear that he knew the rules prevented him from discussing the contract.
 He said in his letter to the agency's inspector general, Rebecca Anne Batts, that the calls to the companies were in most cases about minor matters like scheduling presentations by the bidders. But the inspector general's report said that, as the investigation was under way, Mr. Millard gave differing explanations for the calls, concluding that the exact subject remained unclear.
 Within two weeks of the award, Mr. Millard, who stepped down in January at the end of the Bush administration, also turned to one senior Goldman Sachs executive involved in the bidding for help in finding a new job.
 ''Ur grt. Tx,'' Mr. Millard wrote back to the Goldman executive, after she told him that several Wall Street executives she had contacted were interested in meeting with him. ''Will send info soon.''
 Mr. Millard, in his letter to the inspector general, denied he was using his ability to influence the award decision to help line up a future job, saying that he had worked at Lehman Brothers and Prudential Securities, two of the losing bidders, and was just being friendly.
 The investigators also found that Mr. Millard, who at the time was a volunteer on the Republican presidential campaign of John McCain, used his work e-mail and government telephones to repeatedly communicate with Rick Lazio, a senior executive at JPMorgan Chase and former Republican congressman from New York. 
 In those exchanges, they switched from discussing the contract bid to whether Mr. Lazio might be interested in a job in a possible McCain administration.
 The report says that Mr. Millard, against the recommendation of agency staff, insisted that he be included on a three-member select committee that would vet the companies bidding to manage funds. 
 Mr. Millard argued that his service on the selection committee was not prohibited by law, and that he followed the rules about not discussing contract details with the bidders while the proposals were being evaluated. 
 The investigation offers a rare inside look at the clubby relationship between high-ranking Wall Street executives and officials at government agencies they compete to serve, as they gossiped via e-mail messages about their vacation plans, children and golf games before turning to the details of their pitches to win agency business.
 ''I hope the summer is going well for you and the family,'' wrote David Mullane, a BlackRock executive, before discussing his family's plans to take a cruise to Alaska, then adding ''from my end, hope springs eternal that BlackRock can do something with P.B.G.C.'' 
 The two go on to discuss Mr. Mullane's golf game, in an exchange that took place before the bidding started.
 ''When I added in my usual assortment of double bogies, it all shook out to an 84 -- my lowest round at the Westchester -- and our team won some money,'' he wrote.
 Mr. Millard responded: ''Hey. Sounds like a great round. Wish I had been there. RFP for Strat Pship will be out before you go away,'' referring to the strategic partnership that the P.B.G.C. was seeking to form with the winning bidders.
 When he first arrived in Washington in 2007, Mr. Millard began an effort to modify the agency's investment strategy. He convinced the P.B.G.C. that it was stuck in the past, afraid to venture into the stock market and other investment approaches like private equity and real estate that potentially offered higher returns.
 ''Our investment policy currently is conservative in the extreme,'' he told a Senate committee during his 2007 confirmation hearing. ''I want to make sure that we are being good stewards and recognizing that the dynamism of the American economy could help increase those assets, within reason.''
 The change in the investment strategy, which would put 45 percent of the agency's funds into stocks, 45 percent into bonds, and 10 percent into private equities and real estate, is just getting started. The portfolio now has about 30 percent in equities, and less than 2 percent in real estate or private equity.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles E. F. Millard
 Former Congressman Rick Lazio, now with JPMorgan, spoke often with Mr. Millard.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ETHICS (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BONDS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); PRIVATE EQUITY (64%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (70%); BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (70%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (70%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (52%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (78%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



536 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Case Against Burmese Democracy Leader May Tighten Junta's Grip

BYLINE: By THOMAS FULLER and SETH MYDANS; Sharon Otterman contributed reporting from New York, and Karen Ann Culotta from Chicago.

DATELINE: BANGKOK 

 BODY:
Myanmar's pro-democracy leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, was charged Thursday with violating the terms of her house arrest in a move that could tighten the grip of the military junta over its chief opponent in advance of an election next year.
 Her arrest grew out of a bizarre episode in which an American man swam across a lake and spent at least one night on the grounds of her home, where she has been confined for 13 of the past 19 years. She is now being held in what her lawyer described as a ''residential facility'' on the grounds of Insein Prison near Myanmar's main city, Yangon, her lawyer said. 
 The motives of the man, identified as John William Yettaw, 53, were unclear. But he told Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi that he was a Mormon and prayed extensively while he was in her house, one of her lawyers said. 
 The official government newspaper, The New Light of Myanmar, said Mr. Yettaw was born in Detroit and lived in Falcon, Mo. It identified him as a clinical psychology student, and said he had been a military serviceman for two years. A neighbor of Mr. Yettaw's in Falcon, Michael Assel, described him as quiet, helpful and intelligent, someone who pitched in at the annual block party but shied away from small talk.
 The Thailand-based opposition magazine Irrawaddy said he had met with Burmese exile groups in Thailand and told them he was working on a faith-based book on heroism. 
 Mr. Yettaw is being held by Burmese authorities and was charged Thursday with illegally entering a restricted zone, which carries a maximum penalty of five years, and breaking immigration laws, which carries a maximum one-year penalty, Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's lawyer said. 
 She had not invited the man and had told him to leave, her lawyer added, but she allowed him to stay after he complained of exhaustion and cramping. 
 The charges were introduced only two weeks before the statutory expiration of her most recent six-year detention, and many analysts saw it as a legal ploy to allow the junta to extend her confinement. 
 The charge against her carries a sentence of up to five years and raises the possibility that Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, 63, who has been reported to be in fragile health, will face lengthy incarceration under much harsher conditions at Insein, where hundreds of other political prisoners are believed to be held.
 ''It is ridiculously obvious that they are trying to put her away from any involvement in the upcoming election,'' said U Soe Aung, who represents the Bangkok-based Forum for Democracy in Burma, a coalition of exile groups from Myanmar, formerly Burma.
 Western nations, including the United States, are reviewing a confrontational policy of economic sanctions and political exclusion toward the junta, which has jailed its opponents, crushed pro-democracy uprisings and clung to power through force for the past two decades.
 The harsh treatment of Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, the country's most prominent opposition figure and the winner of the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize, may give pause to those who advocate more humanitarian aid and engagement with the junta, said U Aung Naing Oo, a Burmese political analyst based in Thailand.
 The release of Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi has been a primary demand of the United Nations and of Western nations. Her imprisonment now ''would send a serious signal to the international community, especially the West, that the Burmese military is not ready to be engaged,'' Mr. Aung Naing Oo said.
 The junta is preparing for an election next year that would be its first multiparty poll since 1990, when Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's party, the National League for Democracy, won an overwhelming victory but was denied power by the military, which has ruled since 1962.
 The coming election, part of what the junta calls a ''12-step road to democracy,'' would put in place a mostly civilian government in a power structure that maintains the dominance of the military.
 Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's lawyers had been preparing to demand her release after six years of detention, ''and then this chap comes swimming along,'' said one of her lawyers, U Kyi Win. 
 The lawyer said Mr. Yettaw had swum to Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's house once before, last November, and had left ''a little Bible'' for her. Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi is a Buddhist.
 She has been detained and charged with two companions, Daw Khin Khin Win and her daughter Win Ma Ma, who have lived with her since 2003. Her lawyer said that she was being held separately from the general prison population. It was unclear whether her companions were being held with her.
 Mr. Kyi Win, speaking by telephone from Yangon, said Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi had not violated the conditions of her house arrest because Mr. Yettaw was an intruder, not a guest. He said Mr. Yettaw had slipped past security forces guarding the compound. 
 When he swam up to the house with the help of improvised floatation devices -- large, empty plastic containers -- Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi considered turning him in to the police.
 ''She was about to report it to the security guards outside,'' Mr. Kyi Win said. ''But he begged and said he would go away soon. She had some pity for the chap.''
 U Han Thar Myint, a member of the National League for Democracy, said: ''There must be some ulterior motive behind this. They think that she could disrupt the election process. They want her to be inside her own compound or prison.''
 Most members of the National League for Democracy have decided not to take part in the elections, but the party has not reached an official decision, Mr. Han Thar Myint said.
 However, at a recent party meeting, members took a conciliatory tone toward the government, saying it was prepared for discussions without preconditions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The entrance to Insein Prison near Myanmar's main city, Yangon, where Daw Aung San Suu Kyi was being held Thursday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KHIN MAUNG WIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (90%); HOUSE ARREST (89%); LAWYERS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); SENTENCING (74%); PRISONS (74%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (68%); RELIGION (68%); IMMIGRATION LAW (63%); PSYCHOLOGY (52%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%) MYANMAR (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); THAILAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



537 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Rising Rates On Credit Are Unfair, Obama Says

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER; Carl Hulse contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: RIO RANCHO, N.M. 

 BODY:
President Obama stepped up his populist campaign against the credit card industry on Thursday, pressing Congress to pass new limits on ''anytime, any-reason rate hikes,'' unfair late fees and misleading policies. 
 As the Senate deliberated on legislation, Mr. Obama convened a town-hall-style meeting here led off by a woman who complained of being gouged by her credit card company. The president cited her story to make the case that banks and credit card companies have been taking advantage of loose rules to make money at the expense of hard-working Americans.
 ''We're lured in by ads and mailings that hook us with the promise of low rates while keeping the right to raise those rates at any time for any reason -- even on old purchases,'' he told hundreds of people gathered in a high school auditorium. ''You should not have to worry that when you sign up for a credit card you're signing away all your rights. You shouldn't need a magnifying glass or a law degree to read the fine print that sometimes doesn't even appear to be written in English.''
 Appealing to popular resentment in a time of economic trouble, he cast himself as a reformer taking on a powerful industry. 
 ''Enough's enough,'' Mr. Obama said. ''It's time for strong, reliable protections for our consumers. It's time for reform that's built on transparency and accountability and mutual responsibility, values fundamental to the new foundation we seek to build for our economy.''
 The House has passed legislation imposing new limits on credit card practices, but the Senate has slowed its consideration of a similar bill. Senate aides said the bill was likely to come to the floor early next week, and it is expected to pass. The House and Senate would then have to reconcile their versions before agreeing on a final measure to send to the White House. Mr. Obama repeated his demand that Congress send it to him by Memorial Day.
 Credit card debt has increased by 25 percent in the last decade, with delinquency rates up more than a third since 2006, according to statistics cited by the White House. Americans pay $15 billion in penalty fees a year, accounting for about 10 percent of the industry's revenues. About one-fifth of those carrying credit card debt pay more than 20 percent in interest.
 The White House arranged for an aggrieved customer who sent the president an e-mail message last week, Christine Lardner, to introduce him to the crowd here on Thursday. Ms. Lardner, an Albuquerque resident, told the crowd that she puts some of her daughters' college costs on a credit card and when she was approaching the limit, instructed the school to switch payment methods. By mistake, the school charged another tuition payment to her card, putting her over the limit. The credit card company then increased her rate to nearly 30 percent from 9.24 percent.
 ''Raising my rate to 30 percent is ludicrous and corrupt,'' she told the crowd to loud applause. The policies may be legal, ''but they are ethically wrong and citizens who want to pay their bills are being taken advantage of.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama spoke Thursday at a gathering at a high school in Rio Rancho, N.M.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); STUDENT EXPENSES (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); STATISTICS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (77%) NEW MEXICO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



538 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Does Ranting Sell? Worth a Try

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
The mad men of Madison Avenue are reallymad these days, creating a spate of angry advertising campaigns that seek to channel the outrage, frustration and fear felt by consumers hit hard by what some are calling the Great Recession.
 The campaigns take an outspoken, provocative tone that is unusual for mainstream marketing messages, which typically try to avoid aggrieved attitudes for fear of alienating audiences. The change reflects the significant shift in sentiment as the public reacts to the wrenching and, at times, frightening financial events of the last year.
 ''We're turning up the volume in relation to what our customers are feeling,'' said Jeffrey W. Hayzlett, chief marketing officer at the Eastman Kodak Company, which is running ads for a new line of printers and inkjet cartridges that rant about a ''$5 billion stain'' on the economy caused by ''overpaying'' for other brands of inkjet printer ink.
 ''It's a departure for us,'' Mr. Hayzlett acknowledged, given the ''touchy-feely'' image the Kodak brand has long had, but ''it's right for today's times.'' 
 Other brands trying to echo consumer anger include Post Shredded Wheat cereal, which declares in new ads that ''Progress is overrated'' and ''Innovation is not your friend.'' JetBlue Airways revels in the discomfort of chief executives forced off corporate jets by greeting them with a sardonic ''Welcome aboard.''
 Miller High Life is being sold by a blue-collar character who delights in removing the beer from hoity-toity bars, restaurants and stores that he believes are shortchanging shoppers. And Harley-Davidson deplores ''the stink of greed and billion-dollar bankruptcies'' in a campaign that carries a rallying cry defiant enough to be unprintable in a family newspaper. ''It felt like something that needed to be said,'' said Jim Nelson, chief creative officer at Carmichael Lynch in Minneapolis, the Interpublic Group agency that creates ads for Harley-Davidson.
 The idea is to respond to ''this climate of fear and worry and 'What's going to happen?' '' Mr. Nelson said, with a campaign that will ''strike an emotional chord.''
 ''That unconventional, rebellious tone, that 'I'm going to live my life no matter what,' is something a lot of people could relate to,'' he added.
 Indeed, Harley-Davidson has increased its market share since the campaign began in May 2008, Mr. Nelson said, and there have been ''thousands and thousands of comments'' praising the ads.
 Kodak, Mr. Hayzlett said, is also pleased with the results of its angry ads, which are being created by Deutsch in New York, another Interpublic Group agency. Sales are ''exceeding expectations'' for printers and ink cartridges, he said.
 The campaigns represent the intensification of a trend that began last spring, when the economy started to show signs of stress. Harley-Davidson was among the first marketers to try telling consumers it, too, was angry about how things were going.
 ''You need to walk in the shoes of the average consumers today,'' said Marc Brownstein, president and chief executive at the Brownstein Group advertising agency in Philadelphia. ''They're a little beat up and their wallets are lighter, and the people they trusted stole from them.''
 Marketers ''have got to rebuild that trust,'' said Mr. Brownstein, who blogs about the agency business for the trade publication Advertising Age, by being ''brutally honest'' in their ads.
 ''Candor is in,'' he advised.
 Post Shredded Wheat, sold by the Post Foods division of Ralcorp Holdings, tries being candid in a campaign centered on a make-believe boss named Frank Druffel who wonders, ''Has progress taken us to a better place?'' and concludes, ''I'd say it's taken us for a ride. (Probably in a carbon-coughing oil guzzler.)'' The point is to present the brand, unchanged since 1892, as the cereal that ''put the 'no' in innovation.''
 The tone reflects a belief now widespread among ''fed-up'' consumers that ''as the world gets more complicated, the more trouble we get ourselves in,'' said Tim Piper, creative director at Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide in New York, the WPP agency that creates campaigns for Post cereals.
 The boss character is supposed to be ''a speaker for the truth,'' Mr. Piper said, ''who could say what no one else is saying.''
 That tack is also being taken by JetBlue Airways in its ''Welcome bigwigs'' campaign, created by JWT in New York. ''Looks like the days of padded paychecks, fancy drapes and private jets are over,'' one ad declares. ''But hey, there is a bright side'' -- flying on JetBlue, with amenities like ''comfy leather seats'' that can assuage the sting of losing private plane privileges.
 The JetBlue ads ''poked at the guys bringing down the economy,'' said Wayne Best, executive creative director at JWT, also owned by WPP, but were not intended to cross into fury or mean-spiritedness.
 In the words of Fiona Morrisson, director for advertising and brand at JetBlue, ''We weren't looking for Versailles.''
 ''Offering a hand to the beleaguered C.E.O.'s, telling them it's not so bad in the real world, brought the idea to life in a tongue-in-cheek way people could relate to,'' she said. 
 In other words, there may be a limit to how incensed a large corporation can get in an ad.
 ''People are disaffected and disillusioned,'' said Marc E. Babej, president of Reason Inc. in New York, a brand and corporate strategy consulting company, and siding with them can help advertisers ''grab a bit of attention.''
 ''But I would be careful as a marketer about playing with the notions of 'We understand you' or 'We're on your side,' '' Mr. Babej said, ''because there's some risk of it harming you if it's not really relevant to your product.''
 Or as Mr. Brownstein of the Brownstein Group put it, ''You can't anger people into buying your brand.''
 In which category might anger be appropriate? Perhaps for one of the ground zeroes of the economy, financial services. A campaign for the Bessemer Trust Company, which helps the wealthy manage their money, carries this frank headline: ''Why should you believe anything we say?''
 ''Rarely in history have so many been so violated by so few,'' the text begins. ''We understand. We're as angry as you are, because the actions of those few have cast a pall of doubt and suspicion over everyone even remotely related to the financial industry.''
 The ad addresses consumers as if ''they are basically frozen in place,'' said Orson Munn, chief executive at Munn Rabot in New York, the Bessemer Trust agency. ''You have to speak with them in a way that shocks them out of being frozen.''
 ''It's a very fine line, because if we go too far it'll push the brand over the edge,'' he said. ''But you have to feel a little uncomfortable with advertising for it to work.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: JetBlue pokes fun at C.E.O.'s.(A1)
 In a Miller High Life ad, a beer truck driver removes products from bars and stores that he believes are cheating customers.(A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRANDING (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PRINTING INK (74%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (74%); MARKET SHARE (73%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); FAMILY (68%); RESTAURANTS (68%); DRINKING PLACES (63%)

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (83%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (66%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (84%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (66%)

PERSON: RONALD L NELSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



539 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: Building a Better Census Bureau

 BODY:
After years of mismanagement by the Bush administration and months of fumbles by the Obama team, the Census Bureau may be getting back on track for the 2010 count. On Friday, the Senate is scheduled to hold a confirmation hearing for Robert M. Groves, President Obama's superb nominee to run the bureau. 
 A University of Michigan sociologist and a leading authority on survey methodology, Mr. Groves served as the bureau's associate director from 1990 to 1992. With the 2010 census less than a year away -- and at high risk of failure -- the Senate should quickly confirm this top-notch nominee so he can get to work. 
 Congress also must do more to revitalize the bureau, which has long suffered from inadequate financing and political meddling and, as a result, weakened leadership. 
 A bipartisan bill pending in the House would help resolve those problems. It would take the Census Bureau out of the Commerce Department and establish it as an independent agency, akin to NASA or the National Science Foundation. It would also extend the bureau director's term to five years so that census preparations are not upended by the presidential election cycle. 
 Seven former bureau directors from both parties have signed a letter in support of the measures. The census is a 10-year project, they noted. But as part of the Commerce Department, it is subject to budget decisions that change annually, resulting in chronic underfunding, especially in the project's crucial planning phase. 
 The former directors also asserted that Congressional oversight would be improved if the Census Bureau were independent and could deal directly with Congress. Independence would also put bureau officials in a stronger position to push back against undue meddling by the White House or Congress, such as attempts to politicize hiring decisions or spin scientific data. 
 The census is vital to democracy -- and to American citizens. It is used to decide the number of representatives from each state, draw Congressional districts and allocate federal aid. It and other bureau surveys also supply the underlying data for an array of government statistics on education, crime, health and the economy. 
 To do its important job well, the Census Bureau needs a strong leader, like Mr. Groves, and it needs to be an independent agency. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (96%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); SCIENCE FUNDING (74%); BUDGETS (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); STATISTICS (67%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (62%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



540 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'SUMMER HOURS'; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Sorting Out an Inheritance: Three Siblings Dissect the Stuff of Life

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
In a literal, almost banal sense, Olivier Assayas's ''Summer Hours'' is a movie about an inheritance. Helene Berthier (Edith Scob), a silver-haired matriarch enthroned among her children and grandchildren at the beginning of the film, leaves behind a charming country house and a cherished art collection, and her heirs, as is normal, must figure out what to do with it all after her death. 
 Helene's eldest son, Frederic (Charles Berling), wants to keep everything as it is, so that the next generation can gather at the old place and appreciate Grandma's stuff. But Frederic's sister, Adrienne (Juliette Binoche), and their younger brother, Jeremie (Jeremie Renier), who live abroad (she in the United States, he in China with his wife and three children), would rather sell the house and most of what is in it, donating the best of the paintings, pieces of furniture and sundry knickknacks to the Musee d'Orsay. 
 That, in a nutshell, is the dramatic arc of this extraordinary film, which, in spite of its modest scale, tactful manner and potentially dowdy subject matter, is packed nearly to bursting with rich meaning and deep implication. And this is only fitting, since one of Mr. Assayas's themes is the way that inanimate things accrue value, sentimental and otherwise -- the curious alchemy that transforms certain objects into art. 
 Looking at a silver tea service, Adrienne, a designer whose tastes are generally more modern than her mother's, remarks that such distinctions don't matter in the end, that beauty is beauty, an inherent, intuitively recognizable quality that transcends periods or styles. And while Mr. Assayas's filmmaking techniques are identifiably of the moment -- and his sensibility is as thoroughly French as the long, painstakingly prepared family meals that punctuate ''Summer Hours'' -- the assurance and aesthetic poise of the film make it quietly ravishing. 
 The camera (wielded by Eric Gautier, who has worked frequently with Mr. Assayas, as well as, among many others, with Sean Penn on ''Into the Wild'') seems less like a mechanical apparatus than an organ of perception, even of consciousness. Its movements mimic those of a person's attention, at times restlessly trying to gather information from all directions, at times observing with serene and sympathetic concentration, occasionally puzzled but never bored.
 And there is not a dull moment in ''Summer Hours,'' even though the high points of its action (the big scene is a visit to Helene's house by a group of appraisers) sound singularly tedious. It is arranged in three parts -- panels, almost, in a triptych on the topic of mutability -- followed by a brief coda. 
 First, we meet Helene and her family, and learn something about her devotion to her uncle, a noted painter named Paul. We also witness Frederic's anxious reaction to his mother's intimations of mortality. In the hectic comings and goings of a summer afternoon -- the peculiar busyness of a family in repose -- we can see the tensions and alliances in her scattered brood, whose love is nonetheless equally evident. 
 Frederic, Adrienne and Jeremie are all there, and they gather again in the wake of Helene's death to negotiate the fate of her property. Life will go on, with an acknowledgment of loss that will always seem insufficient. A precious piece of furniture that finds a home in a museum is also in a state of exile, just as members of a family, once the older generation is gone, are both set free and set adrift.
 ''Summer Hours'' is interested in the things as well as in the people, whose sometimes prickly individuality is incarnated by a flawless cast. (Ms. Binoche, as she did in Hou Hsiao-hsien's ''Flight of the Red Balloon,'' seems to relish bringing her natural grace to the role of a difficult and abrasive person). 
 Along with the three siblings, Mr. Assayas contemplates a pair of paintings by Camille Corot (Frederic's favorites, which don't much impress his teenage children); a panel by Odilon Redon; and a desk, armoire and several vases of similarly notable pedigree. (Most of the treasures that appear in the film are authentic, having been lent to the filmmaker by the real museum to which they are donated by his fictional characters.)
 The point is not to fetishize these items, but rather to ponder how and why they arouse such strong feelings, how they function both as cultural artifacts and private totems. Helene, who is deeply attached to her collection, nonetheless anticipates its dispersal, explaining to Frederic that in spite of their preciousness, the things in her house are a ''residue'' of life, without a life of their own. Frederic nonetheless dreams of holding on to it all for at least one more generation, but the film's clearest and most poignant insight is that this longing, which is essentially to stop time, can never be fulfilled.
 This is true not only of families, which are always in flux even as they offer an image of stability and continuity to the world, but of societies and nations as well, and ''Summer Hours'' is, in its understated way, as much about France as it is about Helene and her children. Her property ends up in the museum because it is part of a cultural patrimony, each piece an emblem of a tradition that is worldly and cosmopolitan but also rooted in rich local soil. 
 This film is, in part, a meditation on the changes that globalization has wrought on this legacy. Jeremie's job with a sneaker company is lucrative and fulfilling enough to keep him in Asia for the foreseeable future, and Adrienne, though she disapproves of his corporate career, is similarly enmeshed in the transnational economy. Frederic, an economist, no doubt understands the forces that keep his brother and sister far from home, and is in any case powerless to challenge them.
 Mr. Assayas is similarly philosophical. Globalization is a phenomenon he has considered before, obliquely and overtly, in films like ''Irma Vep,'' ''Demonlover'' and ''Boarding Gate,'' but ''Summer Hours,'' as calm and quiet as its title, is in some ways his most coherent and complex exploration of the current shape of the world. Don't be fooled by the apparent modesty of its ambitions. Sometimes a small, homely object -- a teapot, a writing desk, a sketchbook, a movie about such things -- turns out to be a masterpiece.
 SUMMER HOURS 
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan. 
 Written and directed by Olivier Assayas; director of photography, Eric Gautier; edited by Luc Barnier; produced by Marin Karmitz, Nathanael Karmitz and Charles Gillibert; released by IFC Films. At the IFC Center, 323 Avenue of the Americas, at Third Street, Greenwich Village. In French, with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 42 minutes. This film is not rated. 
 WITH: Juliette Binoche (Adrienne), Charles Berling (Frederic), Jeremie Renier (Jeremie), Edith Scob (Helene), Dominique Reymond (Lisa) and Valerie Bonneton (Angela). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Jeremie Renier, Juliette Binoche and Charles Berling portray three siblings deciding what to do with the family heirlooms in ''Summer Hours.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEANNICK GRAVELINES/IFC FILMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); PAINTING (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%)

PERSON: JULIETTE BINOCHE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (78%); UNITED STATES (56%)

TITLE: Summer Hours (Movie); Summer Hours (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



541 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON THE WHITE HOUSE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: From Obama, a New Deal, or at Least a New Phrase

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama told doctors and insurers Monday that revamping health care would ''lay a new foundation for our economy.'' He told graduating college students Wednesday that ''we need to build a new foundation.'' He told consumers Thursday that protecting them was vital ''to the new foundation we seek to build.''
 Ready for a new New Deal? How about the New Foundation? As Mr. Obama labors to pull the country out of the deepest recession since the Great Depression and simultaneously overhaul energy, education and health care, he has coined an expression to encapsulate his ambitious program in the same way Franklin D. Roosevelt did in the 1930s. 
 New Foundation may not come tripping off the tongue quite as easily as New Deal -- it has twice as many syllables, after all -- but it has become a staple of Mr. Obama's speeches in the last month. Whether a 21st-century public buys a 20th-century political technique is another question.
 ''Every administration seeks to brand itself, and New Foundation certainly captures the recovery and rebuilding project on the president's hands,'' said Joel P. Johnson, a White House counselor under President Bill Clinton. ''But only history decides whether or not it sticks or whether or not an era can be defined in a phrase. If he produces results, then New Foundation could be one for the books. If not ... .''
 Mr. Obama introduced the catchall phrase in his Inaugural Address in January. ''The state of our economy calls for action, bold and swift, and we will act not only to create new jobs, but to lay a new foundation for growth,'' he said that day. 
 But it took months before White House officials decided to emphasize the phrase in a sustained way. Then he gave a much-ballyhooed speech at Georgetown University on April 14 to lay out a broader vision for his presidency, and used the phrase eight times. He cited a parable from the Sermon on the Mount about two men who build houses, one on sand and the other on rock; the former is blown away by a storm, the latter remains standing tall against the winds. The talk was called ''the New Foundation speech,'' and in the month since then, Mr. Obama has weaved the phrase into 14 public addresses.
 The signal that his advisers wanted to establish it as a formal rubric came last month on the night of his most recent prime-time news conference, when prepared introductory remarks released by the White House capitalized the phrase as New Foundation.
 While White House officials did not respond to inquiries on the phrase, John D. Podesta, who ran Mr. Obama's transition and still advises him informally, said it makes it ''easy to understand why three big reform projects -- health, energy and education -- are part of a coherent overall economic strategy for sustainable equitable growth.''
 Stanley B. Greenberg, a Democratic pollster, said it describes both the status of the country Mr. Obama inherited as well as where he wants to take it. 
 ''It is making a values critique and values offer -- a country whose leaders were irresponsible, greedy, hiding from big problems and thinking only of the short term without accountability,'' Mr. Greenberg said. ''New Foundation captures the idea of acting with seriousness of purpose with responsibility and for country.''
 Others are not so sure. 
 ''I think recent attempts to coin phrases suffer from over testing and over focus-grouping,'' said Russ Schriefer, a Republican political strategist. 
 Mr. Schriefer said he was ''not sure F.D.R. contracted with the Gallup organization to test the phrase New Deal. That combined with our 24/7 news cycle, the contact sport of cable news, it is harder to stay on message for a week let alone an entire administration.''
 Such slogans used to be common even before F.D.R. introduced his ''New Deal for the American people'' in accepting the Democratic nomination in 1932. Theodore Roosevelt promised a Square Deal, Woodrow Wilson a New Freedom, Harry S. Truman a Fair Deal, John F. Kennedy a New Frontier and Lyndon B. Johnson a Great Society.
 More recent presidents have had trouble making their labels stick. Mr. Clinton called for a New Covenant in a series of speeches at Georgetown in 1991 as he ran for president, but pollsters turned thumbs down and he largely dropped it. George W. Bush championed an Ownership Society when he ran for re-election in 2004, but that too made little public impression. 
 Robert Dallek, a presidential historian, suspects Mr. Obama's expression may suffer the same fate. 
 ''I'm not sure what it means,'' Mr. Dallek said. ''The successful slogans tied in a convincing way to current events. T.R.'s Square Deal, F.D.R.' s New Deal, J.F.K.'s New Frontier and L.B.J.'s Great Society all resonated because they summed up what their presidents intended and what the public was eager for at the time.
 ''I guess you could say the same for the New Foundation,'' he added, ''but foundation doesn't strike me as a word people will comfortably take to.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); JOB CREATION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN PODESTA (59%); BILL CLINTON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



542 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: A Debate Obama Hoped to Avoid

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In nearly four months in office, President Obama has pursued a careful two-pronged strategy on abortion, enacting policies that secure a woman's right to the procedure while vowing to move beyond the culture wars that have divided the nation on the issue for more than three decades.
 Now, Mr. Obama is suddenly in the thick of the battle he had hoped to transcend, and his delicate balancing act is being put to the test.
 The confluence of two events -- his commencement speech on Sunday at the University of Notre Dame, in Indiana, and his forthcoming choice of a candidate to replace Justice David H. Souter, who is retiring from the Supreme Court -- threaten to upend Mr. Obama's effort to ''tamp down some of the anger'' over abortion, as he said in a news conference last month, and to distract from his other domestic priorities, like health care. 
 The invitation from Notre Dame, a Roman Catholic institution, has riled opponents of abortion, who object to giving such a platform to a supporter of abortion rights. The local bishop has vowed to boycott the ceremony. Some graduating seniors are planning to protest it. Conservatives, frustrated by what they regard as Mr. Obama's skillful efforts to paint himself as a moderate, are all over the airwaves denouncing him as ''the most radical, pro-abortion of any American president,'' as Newt Gingrich, a former House speaker, said on Fox News.
 The White House must now decide whether to engage in the debate and, if so, how deeply. Mr. Obama's communications adviser, Anita Dunn, said in an interview that the president was likely to ''make reference to the controversy'' in his speech on Sunday. ''You can't ignore it,'' Ms. Dunn said, ''but at the same time, you can't allow it to become the focus of a day that's actually supposed to be about the graduates.''
 While the address has galvanized abortion opponents, the Supreme Court opening has galvanized backers of abortion rights. Both sides expect Mr. Obama to pick a candidate who would uphold Roe v. Wade, the 1973 decision that established a constitutional right to abortion. But interest groups are taking no chances. ''Take Action: Protect a Woman's Right to Choose!'' declared the Center for Reproductive Rights in an e-mail message to supporters on Wednesday.
 Mr. Obama frames his position on abortion as a nuanced one -- he calls it a ''a moral and ethical issue'' best left to women and doctors -- and he envisions himself forging consensus around causes like reducing unintended pregnancies and promoting adoption. As he said in a 2007 speech to Planned Parenthood, ''Culture wars are so '90s.''
 As president, Mr. Obama, who during the campaign answered a question about when human life begins by saying it was ''above my pay grade,'' has tried to straddle the abortion divide. He has done so partly by reaching out to religious conservatives, partly by avoiding the most contentious legislative battles and partly by reversing the policies of his predecessor, George W. Bush, a faithful ally of abortion opponents, in piecemeal fashion -- all while the nation has been consumed by the economic crisis.
 He has named abortion rights advocates to top jobs; Dawn Johnsen, a former legal director of Naral Pro-Choice America, is his pick to run the Justice Department's Office of Legal Counsel. He has repealed the so-called Mexico City rule, which prohibited tax dollars from going to organizations that provide abortions overseas; lifted Mr. Bush's limits on embryonic stem cell research; stripped financing for abstinence-only sex education; and is seeking to undo a last-minute Bush regulation giving broad protections to health providers who refuse to take part in abortions. 
 Cecile Richards, president of Planned Parenthood Federation of America, said she told allies that their movement was emerging from ''eight years in the wilderness.''
 But even as Mr. Obama has delighted abortion rights advocates, he has dialed back some earlier ambitions. In 2007, he promised Planned Parenthood that ''the first thing I'd do as president'' would be to sign the Freedom of Choice Act, which effectively codifies Roe v. Wade. Now he says the bill is ''not my highest legislative priority,'' as he put it at a recent news conference.
 Mr. Obama is also reaching out. At his direction, his top domestic policy adviser, Melody C. Barnes, is convening a series of discussions with people on both sides of the debate, with a goal to draft a set of policy recommendations by late summer. 
 ''What we've said to people is, 'This isn't an opportunity to relitigate Roe v. Wade,' '' Ms. Barnes said. ''The president wants us to talk about reducing unintended pregnancies, but he doesn't want this to be the conversation that never ends. His goal is to get something done.''
 David P. Gushee, a professor of Christian ethics at Mercer University in Atlanta who backed Mr. Obama despite their differences on abortion, has participated in the talks. He said the president was sending a message to moderate Catholics and evangelicals that ''he clearly knows what the bright red lines are and is trying to avoid stepping over them.''
 But religious conservatives and more ardent abortion opponents who have not been included say Mr. Obama is trying to have it both ways. Charmaine Yoest, president of Americans United for Life, an advocacy group, said that if the president really wanted to forge consensus, he would advocate rules allowing parents to be notified if their teenage daughters sought an abortion and banning the procedure known as partial-birth abortion. As an Illinois state senator, Mr. Obama voted ''present'' on such initiatives, enabling their defeat. 
 ''Moderate rhetoric, hard-left policies,'' said Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, a vocal abortion opponent, assessing Mr. Obama's approach.
 Polls show that the American public is deeply conflicted over abortion and that support has declined steadily over the years. In 1995, roughly 60 percent of Americans believed abortion should be legal in all or most cases. Last month, in a survey by the Pew Research Center, that number stood at 46 percent. A Gallup survey that examined seven decisions early in Mr. Obama's presidency found that the least popular was the one to overturn the ban on sending tax dollars to organizations that provide abortions overseas.
 Douglas W. Kmiec, a constitutional scholar and former Notre Dame professor who was an outspoken critic of abortion when he worked for Presidents Ronald Reagan and the elder George Bush, said he had been advising the White House to use the speech at the university on Sunday to tackle the controversy head on, with the president making the case that ''we already have agreement, we both respect life, we both view abortion as a moral tragedy.'' 
 But as to whether Mr. Obama can indeed transcend the culture wars, Mr. Kmiec sounded uncertain.
 ''If there's anybody who can, it's the president,'' he said. ''Whether the culture wars will let him is the question, and the answer is unknown.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 18, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Friday with an article about the controversy over President Obama's scheduled visit to the University of Notre Dame referred incorrectly to the location of the truck with a protest sign shown in the photograph. The truck was parked near the Notre Dame campus, but not on it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama's coming speech at the University of Notre Dame has led to shows of support and protest. The protesters included Alan Keyes, in tie, who ran against him for the Senate.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAYMOND/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A14)
 Signs on the University of Notre Dame campus bearing photographs of the university president, the Rev. John I. Jenkins, and President Obama take issue with the invitation to Mr. Obama.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAYMOND/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); ETHICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); BOYCOTTS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); RELIGION (53%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); DAVID SOUTER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



543 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times, May 15, 2009

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 NETANYAHU URGES POPE
 To Speak Out on Iran
 Pope Benedict XVI became further entangled in Middle East politics when the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, urged him to denounce Iran. PAGE A6 
 DISCONTENT STIRS IN OMAN
 As quiet calls for change spread, there are some signs that Oman is taking the familiar approach of authoritarian states in the Middle East, relying on security services and restrictive laws to silence and frighten people. PAGE A8 
 OBAMA WARNS BRITAIN 
 The Obama administration has threatened to curb the exchange of intelligence information with Britain if a British court makes public details of the interrogation techniques used against a former Guantanamo Bay detainee who says he was tortured. PAGE A10 
 SWINE FLU NOT LAB ACCIDENT
 The swine flu virus did not result from a laboratory accident, the World Health Organization said, working to debunk speculation by an Australian virologist. PAGE A12 
 SUPPORT FOR SHIP RECYCLING
 Delegates from 64 countries, in Hong Kong, reached a broad consensus on regulating working conditions and environmental practices for ship recycling. PAGE A12 
 NEW GLOBAL WARMING STUDY
 A new analysis halves projections of how much sea levels could rise if Antarctica's massive western ice sheets fully disintegrated as a result of global warming. PAGE A12 
 NATIONAL
 VETERANS' GROUP DISBANDS OVER LEADER'S BACKGROUND
 The Colorado Veterans Alliance, an organization founded by a leading voice for veterans, announced that it was disbanding after discovering that its leader's background story was a sham. PAGE A14 
 A TEST ON ABORTION STANCE
 A confluence of two events -- a commencement speech at the University of Notre Dame, a Roman Catholic institution, and a forthcoming choice of a candidate to replace Justice David H. Souter, who is retiring from the Supreme Court -- is threatening President Obama's delicate balancing act on abortion. PAGE A14 
 ARCHBISHOP IS SPEAKING OUT
 Archbishop Rembert G. Weakland of Milwaukee is speaking out about how internal church politics affected his response to the fallout from his affair with a man. PAGE A14 
 PACT NEAR ON GAY MARRIAGE
 Gov. John Lynch of New Hampshire said he would sign the state's same-sex marriage bill if it further shielded opponents from having to take part in ceremonies celebrating such unions. PAGE A16 
 NEW YORK
 COURT DECISION LOWERS
 Benefits for Impoverished
 Thousands of poor elderly, disabled or blind legal residents of New York State will be limited to $352 a month in public aid, about half of what lower courts have said they should get, under a decision by the Court of Appeals. PAGE A23 
 BUSINESS
 SIX INSURERS NAMED 
 To Get Taxpayer Aid
 Six major insurance companies received preliminary approval to get billions of dollars in capital as part of the government's financial rescue program, a Treasury Department spokesman confirmed. PAGE B1 
 EX-PENSION OFFICIAL INQUIRY
 The former Bush administration official in charge of the federal agency that guarantees pensions for 44 million Americans, Charles E. F. Millard, is under investigation over his contacts with several major Wall Street firms seeking to obtain lucrative contracts. PAGE B1 
 Class-Action Suit Against Google B1
 SPORTS
 WHERE'S ARMSTRONG? 
 Back in the Peloton
 Although Lance Armstrong slipped to 25th place after Stage 6 of the Giro d'Italia, he began the day with a message for his many starry-eyed fans. ''People have to step back and realize that not every race is like the Tour de France,'' he said. PAGE B12 
 WEEKEND
 A LESS CROWDED CANNES,
 And Perhaps a Silver Lining
 There have been empty seats at the press screenings and breathing room in the hallways of the 62nd Cannes Film Festival. Is the thinned population the recession or an indication that there might be fewer movies clogging screens? PAGE C1 'Angels & Demons' C1
 ESCAPES
 A NEW WAVE
 Of Caretakers
 New home caretakers are seeking a change from the rat race, and living in others' dream homes for fun and profit. PAGE C31 
 Op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A39
 DAVID BROOKS PAGE A39

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); POLITICS (89%); RELIGION (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); MARRIAGE LAW (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); VIROLOGY (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (74%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (72%); VETERANS (70%); APPEALS COURTS (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); INFLUENZA (69%); ABORTION (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%); MARRIAGE (61%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (61%); INSURANCE (60%); VIRUSES (54%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (54%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (90%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (78%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOHN LYNCH (58%); DAVID SOUTER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) OMAN (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ANTARCTICA (75%); CUBA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009



544 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Taming Runaway Health Care Costs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 David Leonhardt, in his May 13 column (''Health Care, a Lesson in Pain,'' Economic Scene), is quite right that ''the only way to have a sustainable universal health care system is to control costs.'' But in analyzing the experts' testimony before the Senate Finance Committee on how to pay for health care, he did not mention a solution that neither the experts nor the committee wants to consider: major reform of the system. 
 Runaway costs are due largely to high overhead expenses throughout the system, and to the excessive use of expensive technology. Both of these result from a health care system that is organized like a profit-seeking industry instead of a social service. 
 If we want health care to be a universal entitlement, it cannot be controlled by market forces and the financial interests of insurers and providers (and the investors who own such a large part of the system). 
 Some kind of government-regulated single-payer insurance plan and a reorganized nonprofit medical care delivery system may be ''off the table'' for policy makers right now, but we will never achieve affordable universal coverage without major reform that deals with the real causes of medical inflation.
 We don't need more money; we need a new system. 
 Arnold S. Relman Marcia Angell Cambridge, Mass., May 14, 2009
 The writers, medical doctors, are former editors in chief of The New England Journal of Medicine.
 To the Editor:
 David Leonhardt claims that research into the effectiveness of different treatment options would ''tell us how to reduce spending without damaging people's health.'' Nonsense. Medical-effectiveness research will simply provide the government with cover to ration treatment. That's exactly what happens in other countries. 
 Last year, Britain's medical-effectiveness agency, the National Institute of Clinical Effectiveness, announced that it wouldn't pay for four new kidney cancer drugs -- despite the objections of many British oncologists -- because they cost too much.
 Today, just one of those drugs is covered. Unsurprisingly, Britain's survival rate for 13 of the 16 most prominent cancers dramatically trails that of the United States.
 Sally C. Pipes President and Chief Executive Pacific Research Institute San Francisco, May 13, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Single-payer health care is the only fundamental change we expected President Obama to produce. Take the profit out of health care and keep the influential pharmaceuticals and insurance providers out of this equation. It's time that Democrats responded to their constituencies and not to the lobbyists.
 Isabel Rivera New York, May 13, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Reminders on Health Reform'' (editorial, May 13): The one interest group conspicuously absent from the president's health reform round table is, curiously, the patients who will bear the brunt of these so-called growth reductions. Expect dramatic increases in wrongfully denied health insurance claims.
 Barry Liss Warren, N.J., May 13, 2009
 The writer is a health care lawyer.
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial perpetuates an untruth: all of the measures discussed represent sickness care, not health care. This is not a trivial semantic distinction. 
 We have a huge system for caring for people who have become ill or injured but no system whose primary focus is health promotion and disease prevention. The only way to reduce these enormous expenditures is to take wellness promotion seriously. 
 Sickness care remains a vital service that must be accessible and affordable, but the least expensive approach to dealing with sickness is to prevent it.
 Steven Tiger Philadelphia, May 13, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Your zeal for a government-dominated health care system will leave readers misinformed if you don't point out the mountains of waste to taxpayers and private institutions caused by the common practice by both the insured and the uninsured of using emergency facilities for primary care.
 As the former manager of a small Manhattan law firm, I know from personal experience that even when we provided fully paid health benefits to employees at no cost to them, they often resorted to emergency rooms for even the most mundane complaint rather than seek an appointment with a primary-care physician, which would have also been covered without a co-pay. 
 Given that we allowed flexible schedules to accommodate visits to doctors, I've concluded that those employees either could not be bothered to make appointments or did not care about the greater expense of using emergency rooms for primary care because it had no economic impact on them.
 During visits to the Stamford (Conn.) Hospital emergency room for my now deceased mother's life-threatening afflictions, one nurse told me she sees some uninsured families so often that they treat her like a relative.
 Do you suppose the executives of any federal health care program, if the same quality folks as have managed Medicare into its precarious condition, will have the temerity to curb these abuses, hence the unreasonable cost to our dwindling taxpayer base, of those and other unnecessary health care procedures?
 R. Douglas McPheters Stamford, Conn., May 13, 2009
 To the Editor:
 ''Health Vows: It's Still Early'' (news analysis, front page, May 12):
 One major contributor to escalating costs seldom mentioned in health reform discussions is direct-to-consumer advertising. Hospitals and other health institutions use this form of advertising to increase use of their services, and this includes American physicians who promote drugs, and new but often unproven medical and surgical procedures while seldom mentioning their cost and risks. 
 As I showed in research published in 2007, this advertising is intended to create a need in the minds of medical consumers where one might not have existed, increasing costs and likelihood of services being used inappropriately. 
 Health care institutions claim the advertising serves an educational purpose, but I found it is not a major factor in consumers choosing a hospital. It is their health plan or where their doctors practice that determines that choice.
 If we want to reduce costs, we must ban direct-to-consumer advertising, as the European Union has.
 Spyros Andreopoulos Stanford, Calif., May 12, 2009
 The writer is director emeritus, Office of Communication and Public Affairs, Stanford University School of Medicine.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDRE DA LOBA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); INSURANCE (88%); CANCER (86%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (75%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); WRITERS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); ONCOLOGY (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CANCER DRUGS (66%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); KIDNEY DISEASE (61%); KIDNEY CANCER (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (74%) UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



545 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: A Queens Shop Where Mozart Sonatas Come With the Fish Specials

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
In Whitestone, Queens, there is a tiny fish store that thinks it is a music store.
 Its name is Porgy & Bass, and it is owned by a 61-year-old woman named Jane Cho, whose love of Gershwin is obvious.
 But her main man is Mozart, and one of his violin concertos filled the cramped shop on Wednesday evening as Ms. Cho was closing. Musical witticisms were written on the handwritten sign offering fish specials. 
 Fish dumplings were being sold by the ''ensemble''; one could buy a ''solo'' portion or a ''chorus'' portion. On the shelves, the Old Bay seasoning shared space with a Mozart biography. Stray display signs -- Stuffed Clams $2.39; Sea Scallops $11.99 -- lay next to Pavarotti recordings. A small portrait of Beethoven hung next to the Board of Health certification.
 Ms. Cho, a Korean immigrant, said she opened the place five years ago and named it after the Gershwin opera.
 ''I really want to run a music store, but I don't have the money to open one,'' she said. With the fish store, she has an affordable rent and simply has to drive her car in the early morning to the Hunts Point Market in the Bronx. She has two grown daughters.
 ''I don't have many customers, but they are good customers,'' she said. ''I make just a living. I don't expect anything more than that.''
 Ms. Cho says she has worked seven days a week, with never as much as a day off in five years. The shop is her oasis, she said, a place constantly filled with classical music, sometimes that of her daughters -- Yuri, 29, and Yumi, 26 -- who are distinguished violinists with successful professional performance careers. Both are Juilliard graduates and now live in California, where they teach master's students in conservatories. Yuri also plays with the Afiara String Quartet, based in San Francisco.
 Ms. Cho initially immigrated from Korea to Edmonton, Alberta, in the 1970s, and she had her daughters taking piano and violin lessons by age 3.
 ''I showed them the scales I knew on piano,'' she said. ''That major is happy and minor is sad.''
 In 1996, when the girls were teenagers, their father died suddenly of a heart attack. With little money, Ms. Cho moved with the girls to Manhattan and got them auditions to enter Juilliard on scholarship, she said. They studied with the prominent violin teacher Dorothy DeLay. Ms. Cho secured a cheap apartment in Washington Heights and worked various jobs to support them.
 But the recession has hit Ms. Cho. Last year, she could no longer afford the rent in Washington Heights and moved into a furnished room in the home of a Korean family in Flushing, Queens, closer to her shop, where she displays CDs and other items from her daughters' careers. Recently, she decided it was too costly to keep her large display cases stocked with ice and fresh fillets, so she consolidated the frozen fish into two freezers. The king crab legs are stuffed next to the boxes of shrimp and fillets.
 Whitestone is still heavily Italian, and during Christmastime, customers place big orders for shrimp and clams, Ms. Cho said. Despite her daughters' lofty careers, they return to New York at Christmastime to help her handle the rush, Ms. Cho said proudly.
 She put on Yumi playing Mozart's violin sonata in A major with a pianist; then Yuri's quartet playing a Mendelssohn piece for strings. From a display shelf, she took down her daughters' childhood violin case and opened it. Inside were the small fiddle and some Mickey Mouse stickers and old doodles of Beethoven's name -- in bubble letters with feet. Ms. Cho said she can always differentiate her daughters' playing on a recording, having listened to them practicing all these years.
 In the home she shares in Flushing, she teaches the family's small children the scales she knows on piano -- major feels happy and minor feels sad.
 ''It reminds me of teaching Yuri and Yumi,'' she said. ''I'm lonely, but I can manage. Music is my friend now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jane Cho at her store, Porgy & Bass, with a violin that her daughters, now professional musicians, played as children.(PHOTOGRAPH BY COREY KILGANNON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); PET STORES & SUPPLIES (90%); OPERA (90%); FISH & SEAFOOD STORES (90%); MUSIC STORES (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (68%); DEATHS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (52%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTHERN ASIA (56%); CANADA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



546 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: As Food and Fuel Fall, Retail Prices Stay Steady

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
American consumers paid less for food and energy in April and overall retail prices remained flat from the month before, the government reported on Friday, a sign that demand was still tepid and inflation could remain subdued this year. 
 The Labor Department reported that its Consumer Price Index was unchanged last month from the March level, and 0.7 percent lower than a year earlier, the largest year-over-year decline in five decades. The decline from last year reflected a significant drop in the costs of energy, transportation and gasoline.
 ''What we see is a gradual disinflation,'' said Peter Kretzmer, senior economist at Bank of America. ''The deflationary fears don't seem to be that pronounced here.''
 The so-called core rate of inflation, which excludes volatile food and energy prices, rose a seasonally adjusted 0.3 percent, slightly more than its increases of 0.2 percent for each of the first three months of the year. 
 Much of that increase was the result of a 9.3 percent increase in tobacco prices in April, which followed an 11 percent increase in March. The price of tobacco has surged 30 percent over the last year as cigarette manufacturers raised prices ahead of a new federal tax on tobacco products. Economists said consumers were likely to see lower prices at cash registers and gas pumps this summer with oil prices now less than half their record high last summer of about $145 a barrel. 
 Food and beverage prices fell by 0.2 percent, and housing, transportation, recreation and clothing costs also fell modestly. 
 The government reported that energy prices paid by consumers fell 2.4 percent in April compared with a month earlier, and that gasoline prices fell a seasonally adjusted 2.8 percent. In a report on Thursday, the government said prices received by energy producers declined only 0.1 percent in April, and gasoline prices rose 2.6 percent.
 Gasoline prices, which fell from more than $4 a gallon last summer to $1.70 a gallon amid the economic crisis, are beginning to edge higher as crude oil rises, and economists expect some of those increases to show up in future indexes of consumer prices.
 ''We're seeing some steeper crude oil prices in May, and we'll probably see some higher gasoline prices,'' Mr. Kretzmer said.
 Also on Friday, the Federal Reserve reported that industrial production in April fell at the slowest pace since the financial crisis began, slipping 0.5 percent compared with a monthly drop of 1.7 percent in March. Production of consumer goods was flat after a small drop in March.
 Economists said the slowing decline mirrored some other hints of stability, including rising consumer confidence, more stable trade numbers and some signs of a bottom in select housing markets.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Industrial Production: Index of total industrial production, 2002 = 100, seasonally adjusted.
Capacity Utilization: Total industrial output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Federal Reserve)
 Consumer Prices: Percent change, month to month, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (86%); FOOD PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BEVERAGE PRICES (73%); TOBACCO FARMING (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (72%); TOBACCO MFG (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



547 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: Video Game Sales Continue To Fall

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL; Compiled by DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
Video game sales in the United States totaled $1 billion for April, 17 percent lower than in April 2008, according to NPD, the market research firm. This is the second consecutive month in which sales have fallen sharply compared with a year ago, suggesting that the industry is not as recession-proof as it had hoped. Software sales fell 23 percent, while sales of consoles and handheld players dropped 8 percent. In a news release Anita Frazier, an analyst at NPD, said, ''This year's performance still represents the second-best performance for the industry in the month of April.'' But it also represents a sharp drop-off, as sales of major consoles have been falling month after month. In February Nintendo sold 753,000 Wii machines but sold only 601,000 in March and 340,000 in April. Microsoft sold 391,000 Xbox 360s in February, 330,000 in March and 175,000 in April. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER GAMES (90%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (88%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (88%); MARKET RESEARCH (88%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); SALES FIGURES (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%)

COMPANY: NINTENDO CO LTD (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



548 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Fraud Case Tarnishes Austrian Family's Empire

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: VIENNA 

 BODY:
Julius Meinl V, scion of one of Austria's most prominent families, used to brag that he had never walked more than 300 yards. 
 For anything longer, he said, he used his Bentley or his private jet.
 Now, Mr. Meinl, whose nickname is ''the Fifth,'' faces the prospect that he will be limited to walking within an even narrower circle. If found guilty of charges that he secretly bolstered the share price of an investment company indirectly linked to the family business, he could face up to 10 years in prison.
 Mr. Meinl, who put up bail of 100 million euros ($137 million), to be released from jail last month, insists that he is innocent and vows to clear his name. 
 But whatever the ultimate result of the fraud case against him, the 147-year-old coffee, food and private banking empire that he inherited has been deeply scarred.
 ''It's the story of a corporate dynasty that represents years of Austria's economic and cultural history and the work of five generations that's destroyed in one,'' said Rainer Himmelfreundpointner, author of a book about the Meinl family.
 Mr. Meinl, 49, was never very interested in the food business on which the family built its fortune. His great-great-grandfather, Julius Meinl I, invented an industrial procedure to roast coffee beans in 1862 and opened stores to sell them. By the end of the 19th century, Meinl was the biggest grocery operation in Central Europe. It was also the top supplier of coffee to the Austro-Hungarian Army during World War I.
 Julius Meinl II turned the stores into a chain by giving them a unified look and then, in 1923, set up the Meinl bank to offer employees cheaper loans and manage their pensions. Julius Meinl III fled to London with his Jewish wife before World War II; he returned to Vienna in 1947 to rebuild the family empire.
 While Julius Meinl IV, known for his modesty, had to polish cans of mustard at Meinl stores and wait until he was 60 years old to take over the business from his father, Julius Meinl V was put on the fast track. He was 23 when he became head of the Meinl bank, after business school in Switzerland and brief stints at the Swiss Bank Corporation in London and Brown Brothers Harriman in New York.
 This Mr. Meinl is known for his caviar lunches and extravagant lifestyle. He became accustomed to a life of bodyguards and chauffeur-driven cars as a teenager, when his family feared he could be kidnapped on his way to school, said a friend who declined to be identified because he did not want to be blamed by Mr. Meinl for upsetting him.
 Some former bank employees described how he alienated potential clients by sending limousines to pick them up for meetings or ordering wine according to its price tag. He would never take off his suit jacket during meetings and considered it impolite if others did, the former employees said.
 Mr. Meinl had big plans. He sought to use the trust the Meinl brand enjoyed in central Europe to turn the family's small bank into one of the biggest investment banks and wealth management businesses in the region.
 Breaking with tradition, Mr. Meinl sold the retail business, which was already suffering from increasing competition, keeping only one flagship store in Vienna, which is managed by his sister. Some Austrians criticized the sale as sacrificing a part of the country's heritage for Mr. Meinl's ambition. But others said his grandfather and father clung to the old business of high-priced, high-quality food for too long.
 The Meinl brand remains visible in Vienna's coffeehouses, but the family business now mainly consists of the bank. Earnings jumped to 5.6 billion euros in 2006, from 659 million euros in 2003, but the source of part of that increase is under investigation.
 The financial crisis exposed a network of complex transactions between the Meinl bank and a handful of companies in the English Channel island of Jersey that are now the focus of an investigation by the Austrian prosecutor.
 The main accusation is that Mr. Meinl, who moved in 2007 from managing the bank to leading the company's supervisory board, portrayed Meinl European Land as a safer investment than it really was, charged fees that were too high for managing capital increases for Meinl European Land, and bolstered Meinl European Land's share price by using investors' money without their knowledge to buy certificates in the company.
 The family empire crumbled further when investors of two more companies carrying the Meinl logo, one investing in airports and another in energy projects, essentially decided to liquidate themselves.
 Mr. Meinl denies all the accusations, but the inquiry led to his arrest in April on the ground that he might use his British passport -- the family was stripped of its Austrian citizenship when Mr. Meinl's grandfather escaped the Nazis -- to flee the country. Mr. Meinl says the unusually high bail is a sign that the prosecutor was biased.
 ''I am determined that the family name will be cleared,'' Mr. Meinl said in an e-mail statement.
 Peter Weinzierl, a Meinl Bank board member, elaborated in an interview, arguing that the prosecution was off base. ''We all believe that we've done nothing wrong,'' he said.
 Two former bank employees, who declined to be named because of the legal case, said Mr. Meinl assembled a tight-knit group of loyal executives that he compensated generously while those who challenged his decisions were ignored until they got the message and left the firm.
 A report by the Austrian financial regulator found that the bank's supervisory board, which included Mr. Meinl's father until he died last year, was often left in the dark about certain transactions.
 ''There's no doubt that he pulled all the strings,'' said Martin Loffler, a lawyer who represents investors in the businesses under investigation. ''He installed people into boards that would do anything for him.''
 A report by an independent legal expert due next month is expected to shed more light on Mr. Meinl's role in the episode and form the basis for any formal claim.
 In the meantime, Mr. Meinl said he had not changed any plans to pass on the business some day to his son, Julius Meinl VI.
 ''I had always expected ultimately to work within the family business,'' Mr. Meinl said. And he still hopes his son ''will be able to share similar aspirations for his future.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Julius Meinl V has led the transition of the family business to banking and away from coffee.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROLAND SCHALGER/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); WALKING & JOGGING (78%); COFFEE & TEA (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); PRIVATE BANKING (73%); HISTORY (72%); WRITERS (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (69%); WORLD WAR I (69%); COFFEE (68%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%); WORLD WAR II (63%)

COMPANY: RAGUSA BETEILIGUNGS AG (92%); JULIUS MEINL INTERNATIONAL AG (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE (92%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (92%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%) NEW YORK, USA (70%) AUSTRIA (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HUNGARY (79%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



549 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2011 words

HEADLINE: Minorities Hit Hardest as New York Foreclosures Rise

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL and JANET ROBERTS

 BODY:
Turn the corner on 145th Street in Jamaica, Queens, and it is as though a cyclone has wheeled through.
 One resident, Lakisha Brown, a hospital worker and mother of two, snatched her house back from foreclosure last month, if only temporarily. ''We need to sell fast,'' she says. ''I'm just trying to save what's left of my credit.'' Across the street in this black middle-class neighborhood, Patrick Nicholas, a surgical technician in blue scrubs, shakes his dreadlocks and shrugs. He rents but is moving out. ''The owner got foreclosed and told us to leave,'' he says.
 Six doors away, past two foreclosed and boarded-up homes, a burly man in a blue union jacket declines to give his name but his problem is evident. A foreclosure notice is pasted to the door of his house. His tone is mournful. ''Tough times, man,'' he says. ''Tough, tough times.''
 Late to arrive in the Northeast, the foreclosure crisis has swept through the New York region at an explosive pace in the past two years, destroying billions of dollars in housing wealth, according to a New York Times analysis of foreclosures filed since 2005 and federal mortgage data. 
 It now touches every corner of the region, from estates along the Connecticut Gold Coast to the suburban tracts of Long Island, where 6 percent of all mortgages are at least 90 days delinquent, the point at which foreclosure proceedings usually begin.
 But the storm has fallen with a special ferocity on black and Latino homeowners, the analysis shows. Defaults occur three times as often in mostly minority census tracts as in mostly white ones. Eighty-five percent of the worst-hit neighborhoods -- where the default rate is at least double the regional average -- have a majority of black and Latino homeowners.
 And the hardest blows rain down on the backbone of minority neighborhoods: the black middle class. In New York City, for example, black households making more than $68,000 a year are almost five times as likely to hold high-interest subprime mortgages as are whites of similar -- or even lower -- incomes.
 This holds a special poignancy. Just four or five years ago, black homeownership was rising sharply, after decades in which discriminatory lending and zoning practices discouraged many blacks from buying. Now, as damage ripples outward, black families in foreclosure lose savings and credit, neighbors see the value of their homes decline, and renters are evicted. 
 That pattern plays out across the nation. A study released this week by the Pew Research Center also shows foreclosure taking the heaviest toll on counties that have black and Latino majorities, with the New York region among the badly hit.
 On 145th Street in southeast Queens, just south of Linden Boulevard, attached brick homes with tidy, fenced-in gardens stretch into the distance. Children play tag under blooming oaks. But 8 of these roughly 50 homes face foreclosure; 4 are vacant; 2 have plywood boards nailed over punched-out windows. 
 ''My district feels like ground zero,'' said City Councilman James Sanders Jr., an African-American who represents hundreds of blocks in Queens like this one. ''In military terms, we are being pillaged.'' 
 Years ago many banks drew red lines on maps around black neighborhoods and refused to lend; more recently, some banks began taking aim at those neighborhoods for the marketing of subprime loans, say consumer advocates. 
 Black buyers often enter a separate lending universe: A dozen banks and mortgage companies, almost all of which turned big profits making subprime loans, accounted for half the loans given to the region's black middle-income borrowers in 2005 and 2006, according to The Times's analysis. The N.A.A.C.P. has filed a class-action suit against many of the nation's largest banks, charging that such lending practices amount to reverse redlining. 
 ''This was not only a problem of regulation on the mortgage front, but also a targeted scourge on minority communities,'' said Shaun Donovan, the secretary of Housing and Urban Development, in a speech this year at New York University. Roughly 33 percent of the subprime mortgages given out in New York City in 2007, Mr. Donovan said, went to borrowers with credit scores that should have qualified them for conventional prevailing-rate loans.
 For anyone taking out a $350,000 mortgage, a difference of three percentage points -- a typical spread between conventional and subprime loans -- tacks on $272,000 in additional interest over the life of a 30-year loan.
 ''There's a huge worry that this will exacerbate historic disparities between the wealth of black and white families,'' said Ingrid Ellen, co-director of the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University. Not that white neighborhoods and towns in the New York region stand immune. During the past decade, buyers of all colors scrimped to buy homes in one of the nation's most expensive housing markets. 
 Now mortgage delinquencies are rising sharply even in high-income, predominantly white enclaves, from Nirvana Avenue in Great Neck, N.Y., to Otter Rock Drive on a peninsula off Greenwich, Conn. 
 In the wealthiest ZIP codes, the median delinquency rate -- although much lower than the regional rate, 5.3 percent -- more than tripled from March 2005 to March 2008, then doubled again in the year since. 
 As a whole the region has fared better than stretches of Florida and California, where about one in every five borrowers is at least 90 days behind on payments.
 Yet the pain in the New York region is considerable. The delinquency rate in Essex County, N.J., stood at 11 percent in March, more than two percentage points higher than in Genesee County, Mich., home to the battered city of Flint, which stands as a national symbol of this recession.
 A World of Damage
 Sitting on Long Island close by the Atlantic Ocean -- salt air flares the nostrils on many days -- Roosevelt is 79 percent black and has suffered grievously from segregation over the years. (Long Island, as measured by school and housing patterns, is among the most racially segregated suburban areas in the nation.) Still, as young black families sought bargains, home ownership rose.
 Now subprime loans and a crippled economy have laid many of those families low. Olive M. Thompson, a 45-year-old nursing assistant, lost her $215,000, four-bedroom Cape in January, but not before she drained her 401(k) and declared bankruptcy.
 A single mother of four, she recalled arriving in 2003 and seeing a home across the street with a garden so beautiful she fantasized about matching it. That house went into foreclosure.
 ''Next thing I know, it's boarded up,'' she said. 
 Foreclosure represents catastrophe on several levels. As families move to cheaper quarters, they often move their children to different schools. A rising number of foreclosures in a neighborhood is a singularly reliable predictor of an increase in violent crime, according to a recent academic study. 
 All these ills are magnified for black families, whose median net worth is far smaller than that of white families, and far more tied up in housing. 
 On Bainbridge Street in the predominantly black Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn, 130-year-old brownstone homes loom like grand sailing ships, seemingly impervious to the ravages of time. That solidity is illusory. Looking closer, a visitor can identify homes in jeopardy by the cracked stoops, broken windowsills and tilting chimneys. 
 Alexia Billiart, 33, who is black, and her husband, who is white, moved a year ago from an expensive neighborhood into a handsome row house in Bedford-Stuyvesant, where they can manage their payments. Across the street, two foreclosed homes have fallen vacant, and a nearby apartment building stands broken and padlocked. At night, young men cluster on the stoops of the vacant homes.
 ''We figured we'd move here and participate in the rebirth of this block,'' said Ms. Billiart, who works for a financial planning firm. ''It seems to be going backward; it's a little scary.''
 Several black homeowners along these blocks, including well-paid professionals, confide that they pay strikingly high mortgage rates -- 9, 10 or 11 percent annually. How that came to happen is a complicated story.
 Over the last decade, many commercial banks, from Wells Fargo to Bank of America to HSBC, acquired subprime lenders that thrived by offering loose lending standards and high interest rates. Court records show that brokers sometimes received bonuses for steering borrowers into high-interest loans laden with extra costs.
 Even many blacks and Latinos who say they sought conventional loans ended up with subprime mortgages from these lenders. One reason, many say, was a mistrust of conventional banks.
 Colvin Grannum grew up in a black neighborhood in Brooklyn and became president of the Bedford-Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation, a nonprofit organization that builds and renovates housing. His father bought several properties in the 1950s and '60s, often without turning to banks.
 ''I don't want to say it's in the cultural DNA, but a lot of us who are older than 30 have some memory of disappointment or humiliation related to banks,'' Mr. Grannum said. ''The white guy in the suit with the same income gets a loan and you don't?'' 
 ''So you turn to local brokers, even if they don't offer the best rates.''
 This may help explain an unusual phenomenon: Upper-income black borrowers in the region are more likely to hold subprime mortgages than even blacks with lower incomes, who often benefit from homeownership classes and lending assistance offered by government and nonprofits. 
 Help for Lost Causes
 The foreclosure storm shows few signs of abating. Scam artists and deed thieves prey on the desperate as complaints flood the offices of local prosecutors. In a church meeting room in the Guyanese neighborhood of Flatlands, Brooklyn, 200 homeowners tell of paying $3,000 or $4,000 to firms to ''fix'' their mortgage troubles. Often, these firms disappear with the money.
 In southeast Queens, politicians have asked homeowner advocacy groups to set up shop in their offices. ''My office is St. Jude, the patron saint of lost causes,'' Councilman Sanders said.
 A few step clear of the rubble. Antoinette Coffi, 45, saw an ad on the subway, a photo of a black couple gazing at a gleaming home. She walked into that company's office two years ago, and six weeks later she, her two children, her mother and cousin had a home in Queens. She ended up with not one but two mortgages, including a variable-rate loan that started at 11 percent.
 Last year her work hours were cut and she fell behind. ''The stress, oh my God,'' she said, her voice thick with the juicy vowels of her native West Africa.
 With the help of Changer, an advocacy group, she has kept the house. But her neighbors may not be as lucky. ''Everywhere, everyone talks about being put in the street,'' she said.
 Foreclosure is cutting so deep as to reshape the geography. If enough homes go vacant in Queens and Newark and Roosevelt, a cycle of disinvestment could beckon.
 ''Some home-owning neighborhoods may turn back to rentals and some might not survive,'' said Jay Brinkman, chief economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association in Washington. ''They might end up bulldozed.''
 That sounds a touch apocalyptic. The Obama administration has set aside $50 billion to persuade banks to reduce monthly payments to help borrowers avoid foreclosure. Immigrants continue to flock here, and New York City officials have spent tens of billions of dollars since the 1980s to rebuild and shore up hard-pressed neighborhoods.
 But few in 1965 would have predicted the South Bronx devastation of 1979. At the very least, tens of thousands of people will lose their homes, their savings and their dreams.
 ''Rather than helping to narrow the wealth and home ownership gap between black and white,'' Mr. Grannum said, ''we've managed in the last few years to strip a lot of equity out of black neighborhoods.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: On a stretch of 145th Street in Jamaica, Queens, 8 of 50 homes face foreclosure. ''We are being pillaged,'' a city councilman said.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
GETTING PUSHED OUT: Patrick Nicholas, a surgical technician, has been renting on 145th Street in southeast Queens but is being forced to move. ''The owner got foreclosed and told us to leave,'' he said.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
TRYING TO STAY: Antoinette Coffi, with son Jason, has managed to hold on to her Queens home. ''The stress, oh my God,'' she said.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A15) MAP: Race and Foreclosure: Default filings by lenders are highest in minority areas, where high-cost subprime lending was common before 2007.
CHART: Black Middle-Class Areas Feel the Pain: Mostly black middle-income census tracts in the region have higher foreclosure rates than mostly white areas and lower-income, mostly black areas. Tracts at least 75 percent black that had a median borrower income between $100,000 and $150,000, for instance, had a 4.4 percent default rate.(Sources: Fed. Financial Inst. Examination Council
Census
Property Shark (www.propertyshark.com)
Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy
L.I. Real Estate Report
the Warren Group
American Foreclosures
 Western Technologies Group)(A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); EVICTION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); FAMILY (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); HOME PRICES (72%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); FAIR LENDING (70%); CENSUS (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); RESEARCH REPORTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



550 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Oman Navigates Risky Strait Between Iran and Arab Nations

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Mona el-Naggar contributed reporting from Oman.

DATELINE: MUSCAT, Oman 

 BODY:
As Iran finds itself locked in an escalating cold war-style conflict with Egypt, Saudi Arabia and other Arab nations, the quietly influential Sultanate of Oman has accelerated its cooperation with Tehran, nurturing an alliance that helps empower Iran while highlighting the deep divisions among Arab capitals. 
 Oman, a strategically vital, insistently pragmatic country, has refused overtures of its larger neighbors to pull away from Iran. Instead, it defied Egypt and Saudi Arabia by declining to join them in boycotting a summit meeting in Qatar in January that was held to support Hamas, the Iranian-backed militant group. The Iranian news agency Fars said that Oman and Iran were close to completing a security pact. 
 The close ties between Iran and Oman, and the reasons behind them, help explain the West's failure to cripple Iran with trade sanctions, as well as the inability of Iran's Arab opponents to build a unified opposition to its growing regional influence. 
 ''For us, this is the expression of being realistic,'' said Salim al-Mahruqi, a former Omani diplomat who had served in Washington. He now works for the Culture Ministry here in Muscat, the capital city. 
 ''Iran is a big neighbor, and it is there to stay,'' he said.
 Oman, like Syria and Qatar, sees in Iran an important political and economic ally that is too powerful and too potentially dangerous to ignore, let alone antagonize. Even the United Arab Emirates, which is battling with Iranian leaders over the title to three Persian Gulf islands, has done little to stop billions of dollars in annual trade with Iran. 
 Rarely in the news, Oman has long been a pivotal behind-the-scenes player in the region. It is an absolute monarchy, led since 1970 by Sultan Qaboos bin Said, who has fostered a diplomatic approach that gives his nation the unique status of having close ties to both Iran and the United States. 
 Oman has at times served as a go-between for the two nations, and it has left open the possibility that the United States could use Omani military bases for staging operations in the region. 
 Unlike Syria and Qatar, which want larger regional roles, Oman is strictly focused on bolstering its domestic stability. Omanis continue the relationship with Iran because of historic ties, because they know it could easily overrun their nation, if it so chose, and because it has for generations been an important commercial partner.
 One visible sign of that cooperation lies far from Muscat, at the tip of an unforgiving peninsula of jagged, rocky mountains in the governate of Musandam. Here, Oman has for years helped Iranian smugglers circumvent international trade sanctions.
 Fleets of small, open-topped speedboats cross the Strait of Hormuz daily, making the trip in under an hour. Docked in Oman, they load up with a wide variety of goods, including food, clothing, electronics, pharmaceuticals, air-conditioners, even motorcycles.
 ''No one has ever tried to stop this smuggling,'' said Omran Abdel Kader Abdullah, 18, a local resident who said he joined the family business supplying goods to smugglers when he finished high school. ''It's our living. Every family is involved.''
 In fact, the local government coordinates the delivery of goods to the smugglers' speedboats, distributing pickup and delivery orders each morning to anyone with a small truck. The trade is considered illegal in Iran, because the smugglers avoid paying Iranian duty and taxes. But Oman collects taxes on all the goods. 
 Pragmatic considerations like those have done little to calm the anxiety of Arab governments that see in Iran a threat to their own regional standing and national interests. As a result, Oman is experiencing strained relations with its Arab neighbors.
 While the West is concerned that Iran will develop nuclear weapons in the future, officials in Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Morocco, Jordan and Bahrain complain about what Iran is doing today. Morocco took the most extreme step, severing diplomatic relations with Iran in March. 
 Egyptian officials recently accused Hezbollah, Iran's proxy force in Lebanon, of sending an agent to Egypt to set up a terrorist cell. Hezbollah acknowledged sending the agent but said it had been trying only to help smuggle weapons into Gaza to aid Hamas in its war with Israel. It denied planning terrorist attacks on Egypt. Egyptians have also charged that Iran has undermined reconciliation between Palestinian factions; tried to instigate an uprising against the Egyptian government; become involved in domestic politics and conflicts in Sudan, Chad and other countries; and tried to spread Shiite Islamic beliefs in Sunni-majority countries. Iran has denied meddling in Arab affairs.
 But while Oman is eager to maintain good relations with Cairo, it also sees Egypt as a withered Arab center struggling to reclaim its former glory. 
 ''Unfortunately, what is going on is Egypt is creating an enemy from nothing and undermining the Egyptian role,'' said Saif al-Maskery, a former official in Oman's Foreign Ministry.
 Omanis said they did not fear Iran's nuclear ambitions. But they are concerned about Iran's exporting its Islamic revolutionary ideology. And most of all, Iran has a far stronger conventional military force. Oman's foreign policy reflects religious differences with Saudi Arabia. Many people in Muscat said that they saw the ultraconservative Saudi Arabian approach to Islam as more of a danger to Omani interests, and stability, than Iranian activities in the region. 
 Oman is a Muslim state, but 75 percent of the population is affiliated with a conservative sect called Ibadism. Over the years Saudi religious figures have tried to spread their more fundamentalist views in Oman. ''We don't allow Saudis to work in our community,'' said Said al-Hashmi, manager of research for the State Council, a government advisory body. 
 There is also the matter of economics. Oman faces a budget deficit this year, in part because of a drop in oil revenues. It has far less oil than many of its Persian Gulf neighbors and wants to diversify its economy. 
 Exports to Iran provide important revenue. Allowing the smugglers to operate is another example of how Oman's self-interest is often aligned with Iran's. 
 The weathered speedboats line up along three small piers in Musandam every morning, right next to large police boats that patrol the strait. The trip is short, but many captains said it can be perilous because they have to dodge massive oil tankers and avoid Iranian coast guard patrols. ''It's all business,'' said Rashed Said, 27, as he delivered 140 boxes loaded with clothing to the pier. ''It's all money.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Iranian smugglers operating last month at a port in Khasab, Oman, across the Strait of Hormuz from Iran. The smuggling is aided and taxed by officials in Oman.
 Goods are moved on the shore at Khasab. The local government in Oman coordinates deliveries to the smugglers' boats. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Oman's other neighbors are wary of its relations with Iran. Map details the Sultanate of Oman.(A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (75%); BOYCOTTS (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); HAMAS (70%); MOUNTAINS (70%); MARINE VESSELS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%) ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) OMAN (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); QATAR (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SYRIA (92%); EGYPT (92%); IRAN (91%); GULF STATES (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



551 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Stirring Up the Right Investment Mix

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
Up until a few months ago, the stock market had been in an ugly dive. Now, it has roared back from its bottom. But if you think you can predict which segments of the market will do what in the next month, next year and beyond, you're probably delusional.
 Sure, trying to guess is fun, but gambling is best left for the small portion of your portfolio that you wouldn't mind losing. Most of us should put the rest of our money in low-cost investments that try to track a particular stock, bond or other index. Paying more to managers who try to outperform the averages rarely works in the long run.
 Even if you're with me so far, you may not be ready or willing to take the next step all by yourself and actually figure out where and how to invest your money. After all, where exactly do you find a list of the best index funds? How should you allocate your money among each? And how often should you rebalance your investments? 
 A growing number of companies and services are popping up to answer these questions and offer low-cost ways to build an indexed portfolio. I've reviewed some of the best below -- and thrown in a few free ones for good measure. 
 MARKETRIDERS The best index assistance system of all would let you pick just how much help you want or need and then pay for it accordingly. That's why I like a new service called MarketRiders. 
 For $9.99 a month, you can tell the Web site your age, time horizon, investment experience and risk tolerance. Then it spits back a suggested asset allocation among American, international developed markets and emerging markets stocks, as well as real estate and both inflation-protected and other bonds. MarketRiders will also encourage investors who identify themselves as aggressive to invest in commodities. 
 Finally, the site gives you a list of suggested exchange-traded funds with which to build the portfolio. (Such funds are similar to mutual funds but trade all day on an exchange, like stocks.) MarketRiders earns no commissions from these funds, and you use your own brokerage firm, like Schwab or Fidelity, to buy them. Then, the site sends you e-mail messages when the market has moved enough that your percentages are off and it's time to rebalance. The note sends you back to the MarketRiders site to figure out which moves to make. 
 There is no minimum account size, though if you have less than $50,000 or so, rebalancing more than a couple of times a year could become expensive, since you may have to pay brokerage commissions for every fund you buy and sell. 
 Want more help? For $399, a registered investment adviser will hold your hand as you do all of this yourself and coach you through your first reallocation. Where does MarketRiders find such helpers? Right now, you get the hands-on assistance of the co-founders themselves, though this won't last long.
 ''Our model is not to hire anyone from the financial services industry,'' said Mitch Tuchman, one of the founders. ''They're brainwashed to sell products and get commissions. Our ideal would be a psychologist who is a numbers person who wanted to make money by the hour and help people out.'' Underemployed therapists, there's your cue. 
 For one-half of one percentage point of your assets annually, MarketRiders, based in Danville, Calif., will also do everything for you. But the founders say they'd rather not. In fact, they're so sure that people can slide the levers and push the buttons themselves that they insist that these customers fire them each year. These clients can rehire MarketRiders once they've affirmed that they really do not want to touch the money themselves. 
 PORTFOLIO SOLUTIONS For all of MarketRiders' insistence on the ease of doing it all yourself, some people simply can't or won't. That's where Portfolio Solutions comes in. 
 For one-quarter of one percentage point of a household's assets a year, with a minimum fee of $500 a quarter, the firm will construct and manage an indexed portfolio for you in a Charles Schwab brokerage account. 
 It will not, however, manage your 401(k) or 529 plan (though it can give recommendations). Nor will it give you insurance or mortgage advice. This is not full-service financial planning. It's just investment management, using mostly index funds and other ultralow-cost vehicles. 
 Again, shouldn't you be able to do this yourself? Sure, said Richard A. Ferri, the chief executive of Portfolio Solutions, which is based in Troy, Mich. In fact, he's written several books, including ''All About Index Funds'' and ''The ETF Book,'' to help individuals figure it all out. 
 ''But many people don't have the time or inclination,'' Mr. Ferri added. ''We find that the people who contact us have come to the realization that it won't get done or won't get done well if they're the ones doing it.''
 ASSETBUILDER The twist at AssetBuilder is that the company uses funds from a firm, Dimensional Fund Advisors, which most investors refer to as D.F.A., to construct client portfolios. D.F.A., through a variety of tweaks on the plain-vanilla index approach, aims to earn just a little bit more than normal index funds. It has had some success over the years, particularly with small-stock and value-stock funds. 
 Individual investors generally can't get access to D.F.A. funds on their own. You have to go through a financial adviser who has been through D.F.A. boot camp and earns money only through client fees. 
 AssetBuilder, in Plano, Tex., is charging its clients less in management fees (and allowing portfolios of much smaller sizes) than just about anyone else offering D.F.A. funds. You need only $5,000 to sign up, and fees start at one-half of one percentage point annually and go down to one-fifth of a percentage point for portfolios over $20 million. 
 So who should not sign up for AssetBuilder? ''People who need a lot of hand-holding, who like to go to a mahogany office,'' said Scott Burns, the former Dallas Morning News personal finance columnist who helped start AssetBuilder. 
 TOTALLY FREE OPTIONS If you don't want to spend any money, there are some fine possibilities. IndexUniverse has a model portfolio that costs about one-eighth of a percentage point (in underlying fund fees; the site itself is free, and I've linked to it and many others from the version of this story at nytimes.com/yourmoney). 
 Mr. Burns has posted his ''Couch Potato'' portfolios on the AssetBuilder Web site for anyone to mimic. MarketWatch has a number of ''lazy'' portfolios on its site. TD Ameritrade has some nice indexing and fund-screening tools, as do other online brokerages. Please post links to other similarly helpful sites in the online comments that are next to this story on NYTimes.com.
 But in the end, it doesn't much matter which option you choose. All you need to do is stick with it over the long haul, and you'll outperform the vast majority of professional stockbrokers -- and plenty of hedge managers, too, who will have long since given up and wiped their performance records clean. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Mitch Tuchman, chief executive of MarketRiders, with colleagues Ryan Pfenninger and Stephen Beck.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B5) DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROBERT NEUBECKER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); INDEX FUNDS (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



552 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW TRIPHASIC; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Sampling Barcelona's Jazz Beat

BYLINE: By NATE CHINEN

 BODY:
Almost as a rule, jazz musicians travel more widely than their audiences. Because the jazz economy stretches well across the Atlantic Ocean, most viable careers in the music involve a number of local scenes. The New York club circuit bears pervasive evidence of this fluidity, especially now. But sometimes it's good to get the message in a stronger dose. 
 That's one reason the Catalan Jazz Festival, a five-night series at the Jazz Standard, makes sense. As a reflection on the style of Barcelona, a city long hospitable to jazz musicians, the festival -- part of Catalan Days, a cultural showcase presented by the Ramon Llull Institute -- features a handful of small ensembles not often heard here. Throughout the run, which ends on Sunday, the club will augment its usual barbecue fare with a tasting menu designed by Isma Prados, a Catalan chef.
 The only problem on Wednesday night was the music. Triphasic, the first band on the festival lineup, played garish, overstimulated funk-fusion with a kind of hollow gusto. Its second set drew heavily from ''Shaman,'' an album out in Europe on Universal Spain, and due soon on a smaller label in the United States. However precisely executed, the music was thin on substance, and much of it felt hopelessly outdated.
 Triphasic consists of Llibert Fortuny on saxophone and electronics, David Gomez on drums, and Gary Willis, an expatriate American, on electric bass. Its whiz-bang style seems directed largely by Mr. Willis, the group's senior member: in the late 1980s and early '90s he made music of similarly flashy dimensions with the fusion band Tribal Tech. Most of the tunes in the set were his, including ''Invisible,'' a maudlin pop ballad, and ''Eye Candy,'' a boppish funk workout that he also recorded for a recent solo album. 
 The front man in the trio is Mr. Fortuny, an energetic soloist with a weakness for gimmickry. His current shtick, not particularly new, involves processing his saxophone so that it sounds like other things: a horn section, a distorted synthesizer, a robotic chipmunk. On ''A Dog's Life'' he ran his voice through the filters while holding up a stuffed animal. (It was a dog. ''Do you have dogs in New York?'' the dog asked, lamely.)
 Despite all this, there was something admirable about the tight connection between Mr. Willis and Mr. Gomez, who wore headphones to stay in sync with programmed rhythm tracks. ''Sugos,'' by Mr. Fortuny, was a highlight in this regard.
 But the rest of the Catalan Jazz Festival seemed a likely improvement. An acoustic trio on Friday featured the drummer Marc Miralta; Sunday's headliner will be Jordi Rossy on piano with a five-piece band. And Saturday belongs to Chano Dominguez, the great flamenco-jazz pianist, a purveyor of subtlety along with bombast.
 The Catalan Jazz Festival continues through Sunday at the Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan; (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (94%); MUSIC (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); DOGS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (88%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



553 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, Major Economies Shrank in First Quarter

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
European economies contracted sharply in the first quarter of 2009 as activity stalled across the region after convulsions in the global financial system last year, according to reports released Friday. 
 Europe went through an even steeper fall than the United States, probably representing the worst point in the economic cycle for the region, economists said. They added that the recession was likely to continue for at least several more months and that steep rises in unemployment were still likely.
 The economy in every major European country has fallen this year.
 For both the 27-nation European Union and its subset, the 16 countries that use the euro, gross domestic product shrank 2.5 percent in the first three months, a 10 percent annual rate, according to Eurostat, the European Union's statistical office. Both areas shrank 1.4 percent in the last quarter of 2008.
 The European contraction is probably easing already as a prelude to slow growth by the fall, economists said. Still, output is expected to fall for the year as a whole.
 The American economy, in recession since December 2007, contracted at an annual rate of 6.1 percent in the first quarter, the United States Commerce Department estimated. But most economists now expect it will turn upward by the fall. 
 ''It was a global shock, so every country was affected similarly,'' said Jorg Kramer, chief economist at Commerzbank in Frankfurt.
 While many analysts see signs that Europe is beginning to emerge from its defensive crouch, the region is still facing a rough ride back because even if growth resumes near the end of the year, it is likely to be tepid.
 ''It's like being on a bungee rope,'' said Paul Mortimer-Lee, head of market economics in London for BNP Paribas. ''After you go down so far, you have to come back; the question now is how far.''
 But even a return to growth is unlikely to ease unemployment, a politically explosive phenomenon that tends to lag behind broader macroeconomic trends.
 The European Union recently forecast a jobless rate of 9.5 percent by year's end, and 11.5 percent through 2010. The rate hit 8.9 percent in April.
 ''The trough in unemployment is a story for late 2010 and maybe even 2011,'' said Julian Callow, chief European economist at Barclays Capital in London.
 Germany, the largest European economy, led the way down with a 3.8 percent decline in the first quarter. Current forecasts suggest German output could decline by 6 percent this year, making for the worst performance by far since World War II. The pain reflects the country's heavy reliance on exports and the fact that it receives little counterbalancing help from consumer spending.
 The French economy shrank for the fourth consecutive quarter, with G.D.P. falling 1.2 percent from the fourth quarter of 2008, the French statistical body Insee reported. And in Italy, the economy contracted 2.4 percent from the previous quarter, the largest decline since Istat, the statistics office in Rome, began publishing data in 1980.
 The data came a day after Spain, the other big euro-zone economy, reported a 1.8 percent shrinkage in the first quarter.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ArcelorMittal steel workers rallied Friday in Eisenhuttenstadt, Germany. Planned production cuts could eliminate jobs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEFFI LOOS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); STATISTICS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (79%); TRENDS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK AG (54%); BNP PARIBAS SA (53%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

TICKER: CZB (LSE) (54%); CBK (FRA) (54%); BNP (PAR) (53%); BNP (BIT) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



554 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Testing the Waters

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
A woman on Long Island opened an Ameritrade account and started buying stock in mining companies. In Chicago, a developer in advertising is betting heavily on oil. And outside Seattle, a Microsoft employee is snapping up shares of technology firms and retailers.
 After being pummeled in Wall Street's plunge last year, many small investors pulled out of stocks. But the stock market's recent rally -- one of the sharpest since World War II -- is starting to beckon some of them back. 
 So step by nervous step, some smaller investors are tiptoeing back in. They are pulling money out of savings accounts and money market funds and buying stocks and bonds, fingers crossed.
 ''There's a lot of bargains out there,'' said David Avery of Englewood, N.J., who has moved about $25,000 from savings accounts to stocks. ''It's risk and reward.''
 But many experts are growing increasingly skeptical about whether the stock market can hold on to its gains, a worry underscored as stock markets fell on Friday. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 62.68 points, or 0.8 percent, to 8,268.64, and the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 1.1 percent, at 882.88.
 For the week, the Dow slipped 3.5 percent, and the S.& P. 500 ended 5 percent lower. 
 Analysts say stocks are no longer as cheap as they were in early March, when market indexes slid to their lowest levels in 12 years. The price-to-earnings ratio for the S.& P. index has risen 45 percent since March 9, a signal that shares of companies are getting more expensive compared with what businesses actually earn.
 And they add that the economy continues to struggle. Consumer spending, which makes up two-thirds of the economy, is still sluggish, and unemployment is rising.
 Still, some investors smell profit in the wind, and are ready to come out of hiding and try to make money again. In Wall Street's endless battle between fear and greed, they are starting to feel the tug of greed.
 Investments in safe but low-yielding money market mutual funds have fallen by $117 billion from their record highs in mid-January through this week, according to iMoneyNet. As people began to look for higher returns on their money, some $47 billion surged into mutual funds tied to stocks and bonds in April, according to the Investment Company Institute. It was the largest influx of money since 2007.
 ''There's been a turnaround,'' said Brian Reid, chief economist at the Investment Company Institute. ''We began to see small-investor flows begin to turn positive, and they really remained positive.''
 Still, investors are keeping many of their chips off the table. Some $3.7 trillion is still sitting in money market mutual funds, and the money trickling back to stock and bond funds represents a fraction of the $300 billion that flowed out in the last half of 2008. Several investors said they were investing only 10 or 20 percent of the money they once set loose in the stock markets.
 It is also too soon to say whether any of this money is back for good or will retreat with the next market spasm. Investors pumped $25 billion into stock and bond funds in January, but most of that money flowed back out over the next two months as stock markets sank back. 
 Beginning March 9, though, stocks swung higher as hedge funds covered their short bets and institutional investors snapped up cheap financial stocks. And as the rally gained momentum, some individual investors picked up the phones to call their advisers.
 They said clients were asking: Was this rally the real deal? What stocks were smart bets? Were big banks too risky an investment? And what companies would hold up best if the broader market came tumbling down? 
 ''We've been a lot more active in the last six weeks than we were in the last six months,'' said Mitchell Slater, a financial adviser at Smith Barney in Florham Park, N.J. ''It's not everybody on the boat, but we're definitely seeing some of our clients realize, at least in their minds, there's opportunity now.''
 Last year, one of Mr. Slater's clients grew so worried that he spread his money across several bank accounts, to make sure he would be fully protected by federal deposit insurance if scores of banks started failing. That client is now investing money in leveraged exchange-traded funds pegged to oil and financial companies, Mr. Slater said, ''and making money doing it.''
 But others returning to the financial casino have not done as well. 
 Another client bet heavily against the rally in financial stocks this spring and suffered big losses as battered shares of big banks rose from the ashes, Mr. Slater said. And other investors said in interviews that they had made familiar mistakes: waiting too long to buy, getting in at the top of a small peak, bailing out just before a falling stock turned around.
 More than anything, the gyrations on Wall Street have convinced investors that stock markets can go down just as easily as they go up.
 ''We all have the fear of God in us now,'' said Bruce Felts, 51, an advertising business developer in Oak Park, Ill. ''We were all seduced into the easy money and then, when the markets began to tank, I think everyone became very cautious.''
 In Shoreline, Wash., just off Puget Sound, Tor Langesater, an investor who knows something about rough waters, is venturing back into the markets. Mr. Langesater manages money for his family's small fishing business, Langesater Fisheries, taking the profits from their pollock-fishing trips in the Bering Sea and investing them in stocks.
 Mr. Langesater said he cashed out many of his stock positions last autumn, but began buying again on March 16 as a rally that started a week earlier began gaining speed. He bought shares of Netflix, some Chinese entertainment companies, the BlackBerry maker Research in Motion (''That turned out to be a good one,'' he said.) and the Panera Bread Company. 
 Mr. Langesater said he was treading carefully. He is concerned about the political influence over Wall Street and the wobbles in the stock market, and he buys into stocks gradually and watches technical indicators of their performance.
 ''We don't jump in with all our money right away,'' he said. ''I'm still playing the rallies as they come up and giving them a try.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tor Langesater, in Seattle, shifted some family fishing business investments back into stocks in March.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
 Tor Langesater, who manages money for his family, said he was being cautious. ''We don't jump in with all our money right away.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); MINES & MINING (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



555 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Not a Good Time To Be Middle-Aged

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris's blog on finance and economics is at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
IN this recession, it is better to be old. Being young has some advantages, too.
 But being in the middle of the spectrum -- in your 30s or 40s -- seems to be the worst place to be. 
 The Pew Research Center released a poll of Americans this week that found people over 65 were generally suffering less from the recession. Fewer of them reported being forced to cut back on household expenses or said they had trouble meeting rent or mortgage obligations.
 ''The most vivid finding to emerge from this survey is that older Americans -- most of whom have already retired and downsized their lifestyles -- have been far better insulated from the current storm than those who need to worry about keeping their jobs and building up diminished retirement accounts,'' wrote Rich Morin and Paul Taylor of Pew Research.
 The elderly benefit from a greater safety net than do other Americans. Many are collecting pensions, and Social Security and Medicare are available. Just 7 percent of those over 65 reported problems in obtaining or paying for health care, a third the proportion of younger adults.
 The collapse in stock prices last year also caused less damage to those over 65. The poll found that 23 percent of elderly Americans reported losing at least 20 percent of their investments last year, well below those further from retirement.
 Those over 65 presumably had more conservative investments, which fared better. 
 The proportion of those 18 to 29 who reported large losses was even smaller, at 15 percent. It appears that many of them lost little because they had little in the way of investments to lose.
 Older Americans have also been less affected by rising unemployment. Fewer of them are working, of course, but the number of people over 65 with jobs has risen by 3.9 percent since November 2007, when the total number of people with jobs hit a peak. Since then, the younger the worker, the more likely he or she was to lose a job.
 This recession differs from recent ones in that regard. While the youngest workers have always been the most vulnerable, those over 65 fared worse than those in middle age in the three previous recessions -- in the early years of the 1980s and 1990s, as well as the beginning of the current decade.
 A rise in the number of people over 65 with jobs may not be good news, of course, since it could indicate that some retired people were being forced back into the labor market by declines in their investments. But at least many of them were able to find jobs.
 The Pew poll found that the recession was having its deepest immediate impact on those in the ''threshold generation,'' ages 50 to 64. They were most likely to have suffered significant investment losses, and three-quarters of them said the recession would make it harder for them to afford retirement, a greater percentage than of either older or younger Americans.
 But if that generation does end up working longer, workers in their 30s and 40s could find themselves facing more competition for jobs and promotions. Even if the recession does end this year, as the more optimistic economists forecast, the effects of it could be felt for years to come.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: For Older Americans, Less Pain: Change in number of people employed, November 2007 to April 2009
Americans reporting investment losses of 20 percent or more last year*
People reporting problems in paying rent or mortgage*
People reporting they were forced to reduce household spending because money was tight*(Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics, via Haver Analytics (employment)
 Pew Research Center (poll results) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); AGING (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (88%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); MEDICARE (73%); CONSERVATISM (67%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



556 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ON RELIGION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Economy Intrudes on Haven of Faith

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN. 
E-mail: sgfreedman@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Rochester 

 BODY:
 One Sunday in late March, Lynette Sparks stood at the altar of a Presbyterian church in upstate New York to sermonize about seven verses from Romans and the notion of transitions. Ms. Sparks talked about the early Christians waiting for divine revelation. She talked about the construction project under way near the sanctuary. She talked, as preachers sometimes do, indirectly about herself.
 When Ms. Sparks had entered seminary at the Colgate Rochester Crozer Divinity School here in 2005, a career-switcher in her 40s with an M.B.A., financial need was the furthest thing from her profound sense of being called. The Dow Jones average hovered above 10,000, the unemployment rate barely grazed 5 percent, and homes were selling nationally at a record pace. 
 All that confidence had been shattered by the time she spoke on Romans two months ago, as an impending graduate of Colgate Rochester Crozer. The Friday before that Sunday, the Dow had lost 122 points, sinking to 7,278. Unemployment was on its way to 8.5 percent for the month, and home foreclosures were rising by one-fifth from an already abysmal February.
 So Ms. Sparks was engaging in both homiletics and autobiography when she called transition a ''wilderness place, a place of wandering, a place of suspended animation, a place that appears dry and lifeless.'' Her husband, Brad, who works in the auto-parts industry, had barely escaped three rounds of layoffs. And the ministry, her chosen profession, was suffering from a recession of its own at the very time she was going into the job market.
 ''Suddenly, for me, it's economic, and it had never been economic before,'' Ms. Sparks, 47, said in an interview. ''Our plan had always been that I wouldn't look for anything full time till our kids got out of high school in about five years. Now, with survival at stake, my assumption is that I can't afford to take a part-time call. And my husband and I are asking how wide a net we need to cast. 
 ''There's more need than ever for the work of the church, so it's ironic we're not exempt from the same factors as everybody else.''
 Indeed, the trepidation Ms. Sparks feels as she prepares to receive her divinity degree on Sunday is widely shared among graduating seminarians and newly ordained clergy members. A contracting national economy has led congregations across the religious spectrum to cut or downsize clergy positions, hire part-time lay people instead and delay filling vacancies. Veteran clergy members, watching their retirement accounts wither, are postponing retirement. 
 The anecdotal evidence collected by the Association of Theological Schools, which covers 250 graduate institutions in the United States and Canada, has found job listings for ministerial positions down by about one-third at major seminaries serving both evangelical and mainstream Protestant denominations. The Jewish newspaper The Forward reported last month that Jewish seminaries accustomed to placing nearly all their newly minted rabbis were finding jobs this year for only about half.
 Denomination by denomination, the severity of the current downturn does vary. While evangelical churches tend to see it as a temporary reversal in a continuing boom, the Conservative Jewish movement and mainline Protestant denominations like the Presbyterians had been retrenching well before subprime mortgages and credit-default swaps intruded into congregational finance.
 Only the Roman Catholic Church, with a well-known shortage of priests, has more openings than applicants. And that, in turn, has led to a round of mordant jokes among seminarians about converting to get a job.
 ''There's less cushion this time to absorb the impact,'' said Daniel O. Aleshire, executive director of the Association of Theological Schools, comparing the current recession with those in 2001, 1991 and 1982. ''It's a combination of the severity of the overall economic situation and changes in congregational life. You have the makings of a very serious impact because things were thinner to begin with.''
 Colgate Rochester Crozer offers a particularly instructive example because it sends graduates to a range of denominations, from the mainline Protestants of the United Methodists to the centrist evangelicals of the American Baptist church to the black congregations of the Progressive National Baptist Convention.
 Roughly half of the 13 seminarians who will receive their divinity degrees on Sunday have positions. But it has become increasingly common for the typical entry-level jobs -- pastoring a small church or doing youth ministry at a large one -- to be part time rather than full time. Several students had to drop out in the last year because they lost the outside jobs that were paying their tuition, which ranges from $8,670 to $11,650 a year.
 For the first time in recent history, the Rochester seminary this year held a workshop in writing resumes. Twice in the last 18 months, it has assembled panels of untraditional clergy members, like hospital chaplains and ministers to migrant workers, to give students a sense of career alternatives to pulpit pastoring. Seeing many churches depending wholly or partly on untrained congregants to fill clerical roles, Colgate Rochester Crozer is developing a certificate program in lay ministry.
 And in perhaps the most revealing trend of all, 10 percent of the seminary's incoming crop of divinity students told the school they had decided to take up ministry after having been laid off from their previous job.
 ''It's not for nothing,'' said Darrell K. Jachim-Moore, the seminary's vice president for finance, ''that one of the favorite hymns to be sung at the baccalaureate is, 'We've Come This Far by Faith.' ''
 For Ms. Sparks and her fellow graduates, when the Almighty's call collides with the earthly economy, faith itself is being tested.
 ''I've been hanging on to the idea that these times are good for deep theological reflection,'' Ms. Sparks said. ''I'm trying to hang on to this gift.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''There's more need than ever for the work of the church,'' said Lynette Sparks, who is about to graduate from divinity school.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES RAJOTTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A8)
 Lynette Sparks, center, in a graduation rehearsal for Colgate Rochester Crozer Divinity School at a church in Rochester.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES RAJOTTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); RELIGION (89%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); FORECLOSURE (69%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (69%); EMPLOYMENT (67%); INTERVIEWS (63%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



557 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Women's Golf Today: Nice Work, if You Can Get It

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

 BODY:
The golfer Janice Moodie is a two-time winner on the L.P.G.A. Tour with earnings of more than $3 million in 11 years. She occupies the highest rung on the playing priority ladder. 
 But after finishing 64th on the 2008 money list, Moodie, like many players on the tour, finds herself scrambling for work. Through the first four months of the year, she played in six L.P.G.A. events, her number of potential paydays slashed because of a shrinking tournament schedule and a slightly higher percentage of events restricted to fewer players.
For the first time since Moodie, 35, was a teenager moonlighting at a supermarket and a sporting goods store in her native Scotland, she feels as if she were doing provisional work.
 ''I do feel like a part-time golfer,'' she said. 
 This week's Sybase Classic in Clifton, N.J., is the ninth stop of 2009 for the women's tour. By comparison, the PGA Tour is in Texas this week for its 21st event in 19 weeks. 
 With their tour's smaller television presence and lighter schedule, the women have not had the same reach in professional golf as the men even in the best of times. This year, with many of the sport's core sponsors in finance, real estate development and luxury automobiles reeling, the L.P.G.A. has scrambled to fill its schedule. The PGA Tour is down one full-field event, and the women's tour has lost five, to 29 from 34 in 2008, and is in danger of losing more.
 The L.P.G.A. players are like furloughed workers, taking weeks off without pay. Brittany Lincicome won her first major, the Kraft Nabisco Championship, in April. She pulled out the victory dramatically with an eagle on the last hole, yet in terms of corralling momentum it was like lassoing air.
 The tour went dark for the next two weeks and three of the next four. Lincicome has played twice since her Kraft Nabisco victory on April 5; she missed the cut three weeks later in Mexico, and tied for 63rd last weekend in Virginia. 
 Kristy McPherson, who finished a stroke behind Lincicome at the Nabisco, said: ''It's tough when you can't really get into a rhythm. I'm one of those players that always feels like I play better at the end of a stretch, but unfortunately we haven't had too many of those.''
 As the golf season nears the turn, the L.P.G.A. is staring at a tough lie, one that will require all of its skill and ingenuity to negotiate. What can the tour do when it has more talent and fewer tournaments? 
 ''Well, I think it's not good to panic,'' said Lorena Ochoa, the top-ranked player. ''We're playing for less money, but it's not about the money. I think we are in a time that we need to support the tour.'' 
 Cristie Kerr conquered the wind to win the Michelob Ultra Open in Williamsburg, Va., last weekend as rumors swirled that there would be no tournament there for her to defend in 2010. 
 ''That disturbs me,'' she said afterward. ''I tried to tell them on TV, you need to come back, or whoever it is, because we need to have a tournament here.'' 
 After 31 years, the L.P.G.A. Corning Classic will crown its final champion this month. The L.P.G.A. was willing to work with the tournament to keep it afloat, but after announcing plans to let go about 13 percent of its global workforce, Corning Inc., the title sponsor since 1979, could not justify clinging to the partnership. 
 ''As much as I hate to see the tournament go away, I think it is the right decision,'' said Dawn Marie Castellana, the tournament director. 
 In the late 1970s and 1980s, the L.P.G.A. planted seeds in small towns like Corning, N.Y., and Hershey, Pa., and watched women's golf blossom. Since the 1990s, it has become a worldwide enterprise, the mom-and-pop connection gradually giving way to a cosmopolitan vibe. 
 The face of the L.P.G.A. during that period of expansion belonged to a Swede, Annika Sorenstam, who was supplanted in 2007 by Ochoa, who is from Mexico. In recent years, South Koreans have become a force, occupying 17 of the top 50 spots on this week's money list. 
 The L.P.G.A. has entered a television partnership with J Golf, the South Korean equivalent of the Golf Channel. Starting next year, the tour will team with the Golf Channel, which already carries PGA, Nationwide and Champions Tour men's events. But for now, the L.P.G.A. Tour is without a United States broadcast partner, which has created gaps in its exposure.
 Two elite players, Ochoa and Suzann Pettersen of Norway, engaged in a stirring duel last month in Mexico that was not televised in the United States. Golf fans in this country missed seeing Ochoa hold off Pettersen for her 26th career L.P.G.A. victory. 
 The tour lost Sorenstam to retirement this year but gained an infusion of new blood. At No. 3 on the money list is Jiyai Shin, a 20-year-old from South Korea who has four L.P.G.A. victories, including a major, since August. Michelle Wie, now 19, is in her first year as a card-carrying tour member after contending for titles since age 13. 
 Wie is the most recognizable United States player, though not the most distinguished. Leading an American resurgence is Kerr, who sits atop the money list. She is joined in the top 10 by two of her compatriots, Angela Stanford and Lincicome. 
 ''We currently have an extremely deep pool of talented players,'' the tour's commissioner, Carolyn Bivens, wrote in an e-mail message. ''And our top golfers are committed to playing more than ever this year in order to support the tour, tournaments, sponsors and our fans during a recession that has affected every business, industry and family.''
 She added, ''We're fighting every day for economic empowerment for all our members and would like nothing more than to provide tournament-playing opportunities for more golfers.'' 
 Kerr, Stanford, Lincicome and Wie are entered in the Sybase Classic, which has a field worthy of a major championship. Consider it the upside to fewer events. 
 The jockeying for position on the money list will become more intense as spring gives way to summer. After the United States Open in July, there will be a one-week break and six limited-field events down the stretch. Golfers who do not qualify for the no-cut tournaments in Asia will lose more ground. 
 ''It seems like every year it's just getting tougher and tougher to work your way in,'' said Reilley Rankin, a sixth-year pro who is No. 80 on the money list. 
 The choices for those left out of limited-field events will be few: move down a step to play on the Duramed Futures Tour or catch up with loved ones. Some caddies on the tour have looked into carrying clubs on the side at country clubs in New York and Florida. 
 During the L.P.G.A.'s spring break, the 24-year-old pro Minea Blomqvist of Finland caddied for her boyfriend, Roope Kakko, who plays on the European Tour. Rankin spent more time with her family than she had since high school. 
 ''You can complain about it or you can accept it,'' she said. ''At this point, we're grateful to have tournaments.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The L.P.G.A. Tour schedule has 29 events this year, down from 34 in 2008, and could lose more.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (92%); SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); WOMEN (88%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (69%); RANKINGS (60%)

COMPANY: ADAMS GOLF INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3949 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (70%) NEW JERSEY, USA (71%); TEXAS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



558 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Don't Pay the Rich to Scrap Their Cars

BYLINE: By LISA MARGONELLI. 
Lisa Margonelli, the director of the New America Foundation's energy initiative, is the author of ''Oil on the Brain: Petroleum's Long, Strange Trip to Your Tank.''

DATELINE: Oakland, Calif. 

 BODY:
 AS someone who drove a clattering old pickup in the slow lane for nine years, I watched with interest earlier this month as House Democrats reached a compromise on ''cash for clunkers'' legislation that would give people vouchers worth as much as $4,500 to replace their older cars with new ones. But the plan, which would cost $3.5 billion to $4.5 billion, is a huge disappointment; any program that expensive should deliver much better mileage. 
 Clunker credits started out as green measures -- programs in California and Texas have pulled thousands of high-polluting cars off the road -- but their fan base extended beyond environmentalists to include Congress and the auto industry after a ''wreck rebate'' in Germany increased auto sales there by 40 percent in March. 
 Unfortunately, though, the House's program seems perversely designed to undercut both its economic and its environmental value. In Germany, the clunker credit scheme has enticed consumers to buy vehicles like Ford's Ka, which is said to get 56 miles per gallon, because it is part of a bigger government plan that includes a forthcoming gas tax based on carbon emissions. Congress's message is simpler, and weaker: just buy a new S.U.V. with only slightly better gas mileage -- 18 m.p.g. rather than 16 -- and you qualify for a $3,500 voucher from the government. If the new S.U.V. gets 21 m.p.g., the payment goes up to $4,500. 
 Such payments far outstrip the estimated $500 per car it would cost automakers to increase fuel economy by 10 percent in cars on the assembly line.
 A bigger problem with the clunker credit plan is that it's not aimed at households earning $65,000 a year or less, which own most of the nation's vehicles more than 10 years old. The Texas program has succeeded in part because it allows lower-income families to buy used cars -- and most participants do just that. But Congress's clunker bill would apply only to new car purchases. So the benefit would go mainly to people who already have the means and credit to invest in new vehicles.
 The folly of offering subsidies for the relatively rich is that the auto industry's survival depends on getting people with incomes less than $100,000 back into its showrooms. CNW Marketing Research has noted that, in March, car sales to people earning more than $100,000 a year were off by only about 6 percent, while sales to those earning $50,000 to $100,000 and those making less than $50,000 were off by a fifth and a third, respectively. 
 The barrier for most consumers is credit, which has become expensive and elusive as subprime lenders have gone out of business, and as the average consumer credit score has been downgraded from prime to risky. Consumers are so fearful of being rejected for a car loan that CNW estimates that 800,000 eligible auto buyers didn't even bother to apply in the first three months of this year.
 Congress could address the credit problem by creating a federal loan guarantee program for autos, much like the ones we have for homes and businesses. The $4.5 billion destined for the clunker credit could be used to provide loans at very low interest, leveraging taxpayer money to create as much as $90 billion in credit -- enough to provide $15,000 loans to six million households. That'd be an enormous stimulus for the economy.
 The program could be administered by commercial banks, credit unions and auto lenders like G.M.A.C., but the loans would be guaranteed by the government, much as Federal Housing Administration and Small Business Administration loans are. Of course, to prevent fraud, the government would need to set strict guidelines for borrowers, auto dealers and lenders. It should also require that the loans be used to buy cars that get at least 32 m.p.g. To push innovation, this fuel economy threshold should increase each year. 
 Nationally, exchanging vehicles that get 20 m.p.g. for those getting 32 m.p.g. would reduce annual household gasoline consumption by more than a third -- conservatively about 225 gallons. Multiplied by six million cars, that'd be a total savings of 1.35 billion gallons of gas a year, or about 1 percent of total American consumption -- as well as a significant reduction in carbon emissions. It would send a strong signal to the oil markets that the United States finally intends to do something about gasoline demand. 
 And it would save families money. A household with a guaranteed loan for a new 32-m.p.g. car at a 3 percent annual interest rate would pay about $1,800 a year less on financing and gasoline (at the current price of $2.24 a gallon) than one that had a subprime loan at, say, 18 percent interest on a car of average fuel economy.
 With such a loan program, Congress could demonstrate that it's serious about reducing oil consumption, make the car industry more competitive and insulate American workers against the higher gas prices that will inevitably return. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); EMISSIONS (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); FAMILY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); MARKET RESEARCH (67%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (67%); FUEL TAX (66%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (57%) TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



559 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: Shares Down on a Day of Choppy Trading

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
 Investors moved more money out of stocks Friday, further chilling the market's spring rally.
 Stocks fluctuated on more signs that the economy's slide was slowing. But most advances eroded by the afternoon as traders accustomed to economic news being ''less bad'' found little incentive to buy.
 The Labor Department said consumer prices in April were flat, as economists had predicted. And New York-area manufacturing activity and industrial production contracted less than expected. The numbers also shrank significantly less than they did earlier in the year, fitting a trend seen in most data since early March: that the economy continues to slide, but at a slower pace. 
 A Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment rose to an eight-month high in May. The improvement is a good sign as sentiment rebounds from a low in November. Increased confidence could translate to improved consumer spending.
 But a drop in the price of oil hit energy companies. Financial stocks also fell as investors worried about the economic recovery being further out than hoped.
 Wall Street's huge spring rally has hit a lull. The government's stress tests of banks are done, earnings reports are winding down and the first wave of April economic data have been released. 
 ''We've gotten through the panic point, and what will get us to the next level is seeing the economy actually grow. It'll happen, but it's a matter of when,'' said Douglas Kreps, managing director at Fort Pitt Capital Group.
 At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 62.68 points or 0.7 percent, at 8,268.64. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.1 percent or 10.19 points to 882.88, and the Nasdaq composite index slipped 0.5 percent or 9.07 points, to 1,680.14.
 Trading was choppy with the expiration of options contracts occurring Friday.
 With the market still up than 30 percent from the 12-years lows of two months ago, many traders saw it as a safer bet to cash in some of the gains.
 ''This market is tired,'' said Joe Saluzzi, co-head of equity trading at Themis Trading, adding that bank stocks were hurting the market. ''The financials drag everything around. That's all you've got to watch.''
 About two stocks fell for every one that rose on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 1.06 billion shares.
 In mixed news for the market, the Treasury Departmentagreed to extend billions in bailout funds to six major life insurers. The move was positive because it means the insurers will get more capital, but negative because it implied that the insurers' problems posed a serious risk to the financial system.
 Among the companies, the Hartford Financial Services Group said it was eligible for $3.4 billion from the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, while Lincoln National said it had been initially approved for a $2.5 billion injection.
 Hartford fell 58 cents, or 3.9 percent, to $14.17, while Lincoln National fell 52 cents, or 3.2 percent, to $15.72.
 Meanwhile, the auto industry continues to face challenges. General Motorsstarted to notify 1,100 dealers on Friday that their franchise agreements would not be renewed. G.M. said the closures -- announced a day after Chrysler LLC cut ties with a quarter of its dealers -- must be made as part of its government-ordered restructuring plan. G.M. shares fell 6 cents, or 5.2 percent, to $1.09.
 Next week, investors will receive data on housing sales on Monday, on housing construction a day later and on regional manufacturing on Thursday. The reports could help drive the market but many analysts say more clear signs of an economic recovery, not just stabilizing, will be needed to propel Wall Street.
 Bond prices fell after the inflation data. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 3.13 percent from 3.09 percent late Thursday.
 The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold prices rose.
 Overseas, the FTSE 100 in Britain fell 0.3 percent, the German DAX index slipped less than 0.1 percent, and the French CAC-40 rose 0.4 percent. In Japan, the Nikkei stock average rose 1.9 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); INSURANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); TRENDS (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (67%); LIFE INSURANCE (60%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



560 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Delaware Legalizes Wagering on Sporting Events

BYLINE: By THEO EMERY; Ken Belson contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In a bid to attract tourists and raise revenue, Delaware this week legalized wagering on sporting events, making it the only state other than Nevada where such betting is allowed.
 Gov. Jack Markell signed the legislation Thursday at Delaware Park, one of the state's three racetrack-casinos that stand to benefit from betting on professional and collegiate sports. The legislation also legalizes table games like blackjack and poker.
 The bill's passage, which some college and professional sports organizations opposed, could turn Delaware into a regional sports betting destination, although a pending State Supreme Court opinion could limit the type of betting allowed. 
 ''It's a great way for us to get people into the state to show off all the great things we have to offer,'' Mr. Markell said. ''This is a competitive advantage that's available to Delaware and not to other states.''
 A 1992 federal law forbids sports betting nationally, but grandfathered it in four states where it had been previously allowed: Delaware, Montana, Nevada and Oregon. In 2007, Oregon halted sports betting; Montana has only a fantasy sports lottery, which does not allow betting on real games. 
 Delaware had a brief but unsuccessful flirtation with sports betting in the 1970s.
 Mr. Markell, a Democrat and former state treasurer, hopes sports betting will generate at least $52 million in state revenue in the first year. The state has an $800 million budget shortfall for the coming budget year, according to the governor's office.
 Similar legislation died last year in the face of a veto threat from the governor at the time, Ruth Ann Minner. Some sports groups, including the National Football League and the National Collegiate Athletic Association, lobbied against the legislation. 
 Bob Williams, a spokesman for the N.C.A.A., said the association was disappointed by the passage of the legislation and was weighing its options. ''It can harm the very integrity of the game,'' Mr. Williams said. 
 The association does not allow postseason championships in states that allow sports betting, he said, which would keep tournaments out of Delaware. Mr. Markell said the N.C.A.A. had not consistently applied that policy.
 The success of sports betting in the state will probably hinge on what kind of betting would be legal, a question that Mr. Markell has posed to the Delaware Supreme Court and that is scheduled to be argued next week. 
 The issue is whether the State Constitution permits ''straight betting'' -- a single bet on the outcome of a game -- or only more complicated bets known as parlays. Mr. Markell is hoping the court allows straight betting. 
 If the court bans straight betting, James L. Butkiewicz, an economics professor at the University of Delaware, predicted only a short-term revenue bump. If it is allowed, Dr. Butkiewicz said, the state could reap major dividends and spur neighboring states to try to adopt sports betting as well.
 Mr. Markell said that either way, Delaware would benefit. Representatives of sports leagues said they were opposed to Delaware's action.
 ''Major League Baseball is against all forms of sports gambling,'' Rich Levin, a spokesman, said.
 Brian McCarthy, a spokesman for the National Football League, said, ''We expect that everyone involved in the administration of sports leagues, professional and college, will review this week's development and evaluate its impact as other decisions are made by Delaware officials and the Delaware Supreme Court.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Delaware State playing Seton Hall in New Jersey in 2007. The N.C.A.A., which oversees college sports, does not allow postseason championships in states that permit sports betting.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL KOSTROUN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION (93%); GAMING (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); ILLEGAL GAMBLING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); CARD GAMES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); POKER (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); VETO (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); TOURNAMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (63%)

ORGANIZATION: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (59%); DELAWARE STATE UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: RUTH ANN MINNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (97%); NEVADA, USA (93%); MONTANA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



561 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Appeals Court Dismisses Suit Against Atlantic Yards

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
An hour after learning that a state appeals court had dismissed a major challenge to his long-delayed Atlantic Yards development project, the developer Bruce C. Ratner said he planned to break ground by October on an $800 million basketball arena for the New Jersey Nets in Brooklyn.
 The 20,000-seat arena is only one piece of a proposed 22-acre development at the intersection of Flatbush and Atlantic Avenues that would include an office tower and more than 6,000 apartments, including as many as 2,250 for low- and middle-income families. 
 Given the anemic economy, the housing and the commercial building may have to wait for some time. But Mr. Ratner said he planned to complete the design for the arena, obtain final government approvals and issue the bonds for the project by fall. 
 ''I'm honestly overjoyed,'' Mr. Ratner, chief executive of Forest City Ratner Companies, said of the court decision, made on Tuesday and released on Friday. ''This is a weight off my back.''
 Opponents of Atlantic Yards vowed to continue their fight and expressed skepticism that Mr. Ratner would get the financing at a time when lenders are refusing to invest in real estate projects. The opposition has yet to win a lawsuit, but it has delayed the project for more than two years.
 In its unanimous decision, the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court, Second Judicial Department, upheld a lower court ruling rejecting a challenge to the state's use of eminent domain to obtain properties for the developer from owners unwilling to sell. ''It cannot be said that the public benefits which the Atlantic Yards project is expected to yield are incidental or pretextual in comparison to the benefit that will be bestowed upon the project's private developer,'' the ruling said. 
 Candace Carponter, the legal director for one of the opponents, Develop Don't Destroy Brooklyn, expressed disappointment but not defeat. ''The benefits the original project allegedly offered were negligible, at best, and with the changed economy they are now nonexistent,'' she said in a statement. ''Despite this setback, our fight against the improper use of eminent domain and against the Atlantic Yards project is far from over. Forest City Ratner may claim again, like the boy who cried wolf, that they will break ground soon. But they won't.''
 Although the developer has demolished 35 buildings on the site, all work ceased in December. Developers throughout the city have found it nearly impossible to finance new projects, or have watched helplessly as lenders pulled out of developments in progress. 
 ''The reality is that it's a tough financing market,'' said Marc Ganis, a sports business consultant who worked on the new Yankee Stadium deal. ''It'll cost more and there'll be more restrictions. That said, I expect they'll get it done. They already have contracts for substantial income.''
 Barclays Bank has signed a $20 million-a-year deal with the Nets for naming and advertising rights at the arena, which would be called the Barclays Center. Although many companies have backed away from sponsorships as retail sales have plummeted, Forest City Ratner said it had lined up eight other sponsors: MetroPCS, ADT, Anheuser-Busch, Cushman & Wakefield, EmblemHealth, Foxwoods Resort Casino, the Jones Soda Company and Phillips-Van Heusen.
 The Nets, on the other hand, reported a pretax loss of $77.8 million for the year that ended Jan. 31. The developer hopes to move the team to Brooklyn from its current home at the Izod Center in New Jersey.
 Forest City Ratner, which was the development partner for the new Midtown headquarters for The New York Times Company, may also benefit from the economic slowdown, which has substantially reduced the cost of construction materials.
 In the last six months, Mr. Ratner has sought additional subsidies beyond the $300 million in cash and tens of millions in tax breaks already approved for the project. He has also said he wants to pare the projected $1 billion cost of the arena by about $200 million. He said he would decide within 60 days whether to keep the original design, by the architect Frank Gehry, or use another. 
 He said he hoped to erect the first residential building six to nine months after starting the arena.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 20, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article in some editions on Saturday about a state appeals court's dismissal of a lawsuit challenging the use of eminent domain to seize property for the Atlantic Yards development project in Brooklyn referred incorrectly to the decision. As an eminent domain case, it was heard first in the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court, so there was no lower-court ruling. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPEALS COURTS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); APPEALS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); PROPERTY LAW (87%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); BONDS (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (70%); FAMILY (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (55%)

COMPANY: RATNER COS (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



562 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Some Thoughts on the Lost Art of Reading Aloud

BYLINE: By VERLYN KLINKENBORG

 BODY:
Sometimes the best way to understand the present is to look at it from the past. Consider audio books. An enormous number of Americans read by listening these days -- listening aloud, I call it. The technology for doing so is diverse and widespread, and so are the places people listen to audio books. But from the perspective of a reader in, say, the early 19th century, about the time of Jane Austen, there is something peculiar about it, even lonely. 
 In those days, literate families and friends read aloud to each other as a matter of habit. Books were still relatively scarce and expensive, and the routine electronic diversions we take for granted were, of course, nonexistent. If you had grown up listening to adults reading to each other regularly, the thought of all of those solitary 21st-century individuals hearkening to earbuds and car radios would seem isolating. It would also seem as though they were being trained only to listen to books and not to read aloud from them. 
It's part of a pattern. Instead of making music at home, we listen to recordings of professional musicians. When people talk about the books they've heard, they're often talking about the quality of the readers, who are usually professional. The way we listen to books has been de-socialized, stripped of context, which has the solitary virtue of being extremely convenient. 
 But listening aloud, valuable as it is, isn't the same as reading aloud. Both require a great deal of attention. Both are good ways to learn something important about the rhythms of language. But one of the most basic tests of comprehension is to ask someone to read aloud from a book. It reveals far more than whether the reader understands the words. It reveals how far into the words -- and the pattern of the words -- the reader really sees.
 Reading aloud recaptures the physicality of words. To read with your lungs and diaphragm, with your tongue and lips, is very different than reading with your eyes alone. The language becomes a part of the body, which is why there is always a curious tenderness, almost an erotic quality, in those 18th- and 19th-century literary scenes where a book is being read aloud in mixed company. The words are not mere words. They are the breath and mind, perhaps even the soul, of the person who is reading. 
 No one understood this better than Jane Austen. One of the late turning points in ''Mansfield Park'' comes when Henry Crawford picks up a volume of Shakespeare, ''which had the air of being very recently closed,'' and begins to read aloud to the young Bertrams and their cousin, Fanny Price. Fanny discovers in Crawford's reading ''a variety of excellence beyond what she had ever met with.'' And yet his ability to do every part ''with equal beauty'' is a clear sign to us, if not entirely to Fanny, of his superficiality. 
 I read aloud to my writing students, and when students read aloud to me I notice something odd. They are smart and literate, and most of them had parents who read to them as children. But when students read aloud at first, I notice that they are trying to read the meaning of the words. If the work is their own, they are usually trying to read the intention of the writer. 
 It's as though they're reading what the words represent rather than the words themselves. What gets lost is the inner voice of the prose, the life of the language. This is reflected in their writing, too, at first.
 In one realm -- poetry -- reading aloud has never really died out. Take Robert Pinsky's new book, ''Essential Pleasures: A New Anthology of Poems to Read Aloud.'' But I suspect there is no going back. You can easily make the argument that reading silently is an economic artifact, a sign of a new prosperity beginning in the early 19th century and a new cheapness in books. The same argument applies to listening to books on your iPhone. But what I would suggest is that our idea of reading is incomplete, impoverished, unless we are also taking the time to read aloud.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); LITERATURE (78%); MUSIC (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (66%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009



563 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1377 words

PERSON: Park Dae-sung 

HEADLINE: A Financial Prophet Online Is Vilified in Reality

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
 FOUR months ago, Park Dae-sung became South Korea's most celebrated -- and vilified -- blogger, when he was arrested on charges of spreading false information on the Internet with malicious intent. Prosecutors accused Mr. Park, whose financial postings under the alias Minerva had attracted a cultlike following, of damaging the nation's economy with his ''extremely pessimistic forecasts.''
 On April 20, Mr. Park was acquitted in a court of law, but his troubles persist in the court of public opinion. In a society still negotiating the gulf between its traditionally hierarchical culture and the free-floating online world, he has been sharply criticized for, in effect, not being the authority figure most people had imagined him to be.
 ''I am disillusioned and disgusted,'' Mr. Park said in an interview in his Seoul hide-out, where he was holed up to escape from most reporters, as well as online death threats. ''I have seen the madness of Korean society. I can't live here anymore. I want to emigrate.'' 
 For months last year, Minerva riveted South Korea with his uncannily accurate analyses of the economy, his often scathing criticisms of government policy and his predictions of, among other things, the fall of Lehman Brothers and the collapse of the Korean currency, the won.
 When some of his prognostications proved on target, readers dug up his earlier postings and eagerly awaited more. A civic group gave an award to the anonymous ''citizen journalist.'' A national television anchor called on the government to heed Minerva's advice. Bookstores gave special displays to economics books recommended by Minerva.
 It was not until January, with Mr. Park's arrest, that the mystery of Minerva was finally solved. Mr. Park, 31 and jobless, had attended a two-year vocational college and had never even invested in the stock market. He was charged with spreading false information on the Internet ''with intent to damage the public interest,'' punishable by five years in prison.
 Among his crimes, prosecutors said, was to state that the South Korean government had barred banks and major companies from buying American dollars in a desperate attempt to check the fall of the won.
 On April 20, Mr. Park was acquitted on the grounds that, while not everything he wrote was correct, there was no evidence that he knew it was wrong or acted with malicious intent.
 But his difficulties -- at what seemed to be a moment of triumph -- were far from over.
 Mr. Park's evolution from a former employee of a wireless communications company to a national sensation to an embittered outcast reads like a case study of what can happen to an unprepared blogger in this highly wired, and politically divisive, society.
 ABOUT a year ago, Mr. Park said, he was preparing to apply to college when he began noting disturbing similarities between what he saw around him and the situation that had preceded the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis: jittery financial markets accompanied by official denials of imminent trouble.
 But what most disturbed him was that some of the same officials who had overseen the South Korean economy as it slid into the previous crisis had re-emerged as top policy makers under President Lee Myung-bak. He began posting his thoughts on a popular online debate site called Agora, under the name Minerva. The rest is history.
 To his critics, Minerva was a charlatan whose doom-mongering exacerbated public anxiety about the economy and led to self-fulfilling prophesies. His widening popularity and nickname -- the ''economy president of South Korea'' -- was seen as a rebuff to Mr. Lee, who had run for office vowing to become the ''economy president,'' but was now being accused of mishandling the economy as the crisis that started in the United States engulfed his nation.
 ''Unlike offline analysts who often couch their writings in ambiguous language, I pulled no punches when I criticized the government and the ills of our society,'' Mr. Park said in the interview. ''Anonymity is the foundation and facilitator of Internet communications.''
 He said his motive was ''benign'' -- to warn people to be wary of what the government and experts said lest they suffer again as they did a decade ago.
 ''During the Asian financial crisis in 1998, the parents of a friend of mine committed suicide in despair,'' Mr. Park said. ''I thought I should protect myself by self-education. I wanted to warn people whose children were studying abroad and small businesses about the danger of rising exchange rates.
 ''But the government treated me like a terrorist,'' he said.
 His postings sharpened the tension between the country's online and offline cultures.
 Off the Web, South Korea remains a traditional Confucian society. Seniority and hierarchy rule.
 Online, South Korea is a very different place. Emboldened by cyberspace anonymity, Koreans flout decorum and have turned the Internet into a free-for-all forum for rabble-rousing and name-calling, so much so that many officials see the Internet as a hotbed of antigovernment activity and slander. Many who joined the anti-American beef protests that crippled Mr. Lee's government last summer were responding to online rumors about the health risks of American meat.
 These two cultures clashed when prosecutors formed an unprecedented ''anti-false information task force'' and arrested Mr. Park.
 Government critics at first rallied behind him, treating him like a martyr for cyberspace freedom of speech who was challenging the old power structure. Government supporters, meanwhile, hailed a belated crackdown on misinformation proliferating on the Web.
 Once Minerva's identity was exposed, however, the public debate shifted.
 Before Mr. Park's arrest, he was believed to be a seasoned financial expert, a well-educated ideologue or a whistle-blowing civil servant.
 Afterward, as it emerged that he was actually a jobless amateur who claimed to be politically neutral and spoke with little of the zing of his online postings, some of his fans turned against him.
 In a country where social status is heavily determined by age and academic credentials, people did not know what to think. Conservative dailies began calling him a quack, an unemployed Internet addict, even a ''cult leader.''
 MR. PARK'S most vehement detractors now include some of his earlier supporters: antigovernment activists who insist that he is a fake and that the real Minerva is still at large.
 ''I don't think I would have been arrested, or that people would have questioned my identity, if I'd graduated from a top university,'' Mr. Park said.
 He was popular on the Internet, but ''once I stepped into the offline world, I ran into a wall.''
 In some of his 280 postings, Mr. Park lied about his age and background (once indicating he had worked on Wall Street), helping to create the myth about him. He apologized for using obscenities against President Lee, but he argued that the liberties he took in constructing his online identity were ''part of the emerging Internet culture and should not be judged by offline norms.''
 Kim Sung-hae, a media expert at the Korea Press Foundation, said the Minerva phenomenon reflected the public's lost of trust in government authority and traditional market experts.
 ''People wanted a prophet,'' Mr. Kim said. ''Minerva was an illusion. He was a false prophet who took superficial information easily available on the Web and assembled it into demagogic narratives.''
 Yoon Seung-hyun, the South Korean strategy and finance minister, called Mr. Park a ''social pathology case unbecoming'' a democracy. ''I feel angry that Minerva is on the loose,'' he told reporters last month, referring to Mr. Park's release from detention.
 Mr. Park's legal troubles are not over. Government prosecutors have filed an appeal of his acquittal.
 Looking back over his short career as Minerva, he said he felt he had become a pawn in the struggle between supporters and opponents of the government.
 ''I have nothing left but condemnations,'' he said. ''First, conservatives attacked me. Liberals supported and then they discarded me because I could not become their spokesman. 
 ''I regret what I did,'' he said. ''I don't think I'll ever blog again, not in South Korea.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Park Dae-sung with his mother after his release from prison.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE JI-UN/YONHAP, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); ARRESTS (89%); INTERNET JOURNALISM (78%); CITIZEN JOURNALISM (78%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ACQUITTAL (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); JOURNALISM (72%); CASE STUDIES (68%); INTERVIEWS (68%); BOOKSTORES (63%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (Foreign)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



564 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times, May 16, 2009

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 MYANMAR'S JUNTA
 Still Fears a Challenger
 By locking Daw Aung San Suu Kyi in prison, the generals who rule Myanmar demonstrated their continuing fear of the lone pro-democracy challenger. PAGE A4 
 HIGHER SWINE FLU ESTIMATE
 The real number of swine flu cases in the United States could be ''upwards of 100,000,'' a top public health official estimated, far higher than the official count of 7,415 cases confirmed by laboratories. PAGE A5 
 POPE ASSAILS HATRED
 Pope Benedict XVI wound up a sometimes fraught and often politically charged trip to Israel and the West Bank with a call for peace and a plea that the Holocaust must ''never be forgotten or denied.'' PAGE A5 
 DEMANDS ON SOUTH KOREA
 North Korea said that South Korea must leave a joint industrial park unless it unconditionally agrees to higher wages for Communist workers and other demands from the North. PAGE A5 
 KOREAN BLOGGER IS VILIFIED
 Park Dae-sung was South Korea's most celebrated blogger. His postings on the economy attracted a cultlike following. Then he was arrested and exposed, and his fans turned on him. PAGE A6 
 ARREST OF 2 'PINK PANTHERS'
 With the arrest of two suspected jewel thieves in Paris, officials hope they have disrupted a worldwide network of jewel thieves that Interpol believes has stolen more than $130 million in jewels. PAGE A6 
 BRITISH OFFICIAL STEPS ASIDE
 With the suspension of a junior justice minister, a scandal over expense claims submitted by many of Britain's 646 members of Parliament reached a watershed. PAGE A7 
 NATIONAL
 IRAQ WAR CLAIMS 
 Its Oldest Combat Casualty
 On Sunday, Maj. Steven Hutchison of the Army, 60, became the oldest member of the American military to die of combat-related wounds in either Iraq or Afghanistan. Major Hutchison had signed on again in 2007 after his wife died. PAGE A8 
 ZEROING IN ON A CATCHPHRASE
 Ready for a new New Deal? How about a New Foundation? On a variety of policy issues, President Obama keeps returning to the idea of laying a ''new foundation.'' PAGE A8 
 BILL MAY SECURE SICK DAYS
 A long-stalled effort to guarantee American workers paid sick days may take a big step forward with the introduction of legislation by Congressional Democrats. PAGE A9 
 EX-GOVERNOR LOSES IN COURT
 Former Gov. Don Siegelman of Alabama has lost his final round before a federal appellate court, a decision that may leave his appeal of a 2006 bribery conviction to the United States Supreme Court. PAGE A9 
 NEW YORK
 STATE STUDIES HOW TO ADD
 Sixth Area Code to City
 The Department of Public Service, which regulates the telecommunications industry, is seeking opinions on whether to skip Manhattan for now, or to cover all the boroughs and need a seventh sooner. PAGE A13 
 OBITUARIES
 HUBERT VAN ES, 67
 A Dutch photojournalist who covered the Vietnam War, he took one of the best-known images of the American evacuation of Saigon in 1975, of people scaling a ladder to a helicopter on a rooftop. PAGE A12 
 BUSINESS
 SMALL INVESTORS
 Returning to Stocks
 Step by step, more people are gradually leaving safer investments for stocks, encouraged by the recent rally but still nervous about what may come. PAGE B1 
 WORK HALTED ON HELICOPTER
 Pentagon officials stopped work on a costly new presidential helicopter despite efforts by contractors and their supporters in Congress to salvage part of the project. PAGE B1 
 GEFFEN SAID EAGER FOR TIMES
 Despite falling short in two attempts to become a major player in The New York Times Company, David Geffen continues to be interested in buying a sizable piece of the company or taking it over completely, according to sources. PAGE B1 
 ABERCROMBIE LOWERS PRICES
 Abercrombie & Fitch announced it would seek better deals on its merchandise from suppliers and pass the savings along. It also said it was taking steps to correct some fashion mistakes, like stocking skirts when the hot trend was dresses. PAGE B2 
 ARTS
 SYMPHONY AUDIENCES
 Selecting Encores by Text
 Faced with aging patrons, The Indianapolis Symphony and the New York Philharmonic are trying to appeal to younger audiences by asking audience members to choose encores via text. PAGE C1 
 TWO ERAS OF MARTHA GRAHAM
 The Martha Graham Dance Company's gala on Thursday night at the Skirball Center, which also honored the impresario Paul Szilard and the singer Phoebe Snow, gave us Graham ancient and modern, Alastair Macaulay writes. PAGE C1 
 SPORTS
 RODRIGUEZ IS SAFE
 At Home From Boos
 Alex Rodriguez hoped his reception at his new Yankee Stadium debut would be kind, if not joyous. And wouldn't you know it? When he trotted from the dugout and down the right-field line to long toss with Nick Swisher and eventually moved into the batting cage, there wasn't a catcall to be heard. PAGE B9 
 Op-ed
 BOB HERBERT PAGE A17
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (86%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); INFLUENZA (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); SCANDALS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); SICK LEAVE (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); ARMIES (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); BRIBERY (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); IRAQ WAR (68%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); APPEALS COURTS (63%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (60%); GOVERNORS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL POLICE ORGANIZATION (INTERPOL) (54%)

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (73%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (55%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MYANMAR (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAQ (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); ISRAEL (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



565 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: New Deal. Great Society. New Foundation?

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama told doctors and insurers on Monday that revamping health care would ''lay a new foundation for our economy.'' He told graduating college students on Wednesday that ''we need to build a new foundation.'' He told consumers on Thursday that protecting them was vital ''to the new foundation we seek to build.''
 Ready for a new New Deal? How about the New Foundation? As Mr. Obama labors to pull the country out of the deepest recession since the Great Depression and simultaneously overhaul energy, education and health care, he has coined an expression to encapsulate his ambitious program in the same way Franklin D. Roosevelt did in the 1930s. 
 New Foundation may not come tripping off the tongue quite as easily as New Deal -- it has twice as many syllables, after all -- but it has become a staple of Mr. Obama's speeches in the last month. Whether a 21st-century public buys a 20th-century political technique is another question.
 ''Every administration seeks to brand itself, and New Foundation certainly captures the recovery and rebuilding project on the president's hands,'' said Joel P. Johnson, a White House counselor under President Bill Clinton. ''But only history decides whether or not it sticks or whether or not an era can be defined in a phrase. If he produces results, then New Foundation could be one for the books. If not ... .''
 Mr. Obama introduced the catchall phrase in his Inaugural Address in January. ''The state of our economy calls for action, bold and swift,'' he said that day, ''and we will act not only to create new jobs but to lay a new foundation for growth.'' 
 But it took months before White House officials decided to emphasize the phrase in a sustained way. Then he gave a much-ballyhooed speech at Georgetown University on April 14 to lay out a broader vision for his presidency and used the phrase eight times. He cited a parable from the Sermon on the Mount about two men who build houses, one on sand and the other on rock; the former is blown away by a storm, the latter remains standing tall against the winds. The talk was called ''the New Foundation speech,'' and in the month since then, Mr. Obama has weaved the phrase into 14 public addresses.
 The signal that his advisers wanted to establish it as a formal rubric came last month on the night of his most recent prime-time news conference, when prepared introductory remarks released by the White House capitalized the phrase as New Foundation.
 While White House officials did not respond to inquiries on the phrase, John D. Podesta, who ran Mr. Obama's transition and still advises him informally, said it made it ''easy to understand why three big reform projects -- health, energy and education -- are part of a coherent overall economic strategy for sustainable equitable growth.''
 Stanley B. Greenberg, a Democratic pollster, said it described both the status of the country Mr. Obama inherited as well as where he wanted to take it. 
 ''It is making a values critique and values offer: a country whose leaders were irresponsible, greedy, hiding from big problems and thinking only of the short term without accountability,'' Mr. Greenberg said. ''New Foundation captures the idea of acting with seriousness of purpose with responsibility and for country.''
 Others are not so sure. 
 ''I think recent attempts to coin phrases suffer from over testing and over focus-grouping,'' said Russ Schriefer, a Republican political strategist. 
 Mr. Schriefer said he was ''not sure F.D.R. contracted with the Gallup organization to test the phrase New Deal.''
 ''That combined with our 24/7 news cycle, the contact sport of cable news,'' he continued. ''It is harder to stay on message for a week, let alone an entire administration.''
 Such slogans used to be common even before Roosevelt introduced his ''New Deal for the American people'' in accepting the Democratic nomination in 1932. Theodore Roosevelt had promised a Square Deal, and Woodrow Wilson a New Freedom; later, Harry S. Truman promised a Fair Deal, John F. Kennedy a New Frontier and Lyndon B. Johnson a Great Society.
 More recent presidents have had trouble making their labels stick. Mr. Clinton called for a New Covenant in a series of speeches at Georgetown in 1991 as he ran for president, but pollsters turned thumbs down and he largely dropped it. George W. Bush championed an Ownership Society when he ran for re-election in 2004, but that also made little public impression. 
 Robert Dallek, a presidential historian, suspects Mr. Obama's expression may suffer the same fate. 
 ''I'm not sure what it means,'' Mr. Dallek said. ''The successful slogans tied in a convincing way to current events. T.R.'s Square Deal, F.D.R.' s New Deal, J.F.K.'s New Frontier and L.B.J.'s Great Society all resonated because they summed up what their presidents intended and what the public was eager for at the time.''
 ''I guess you could say the same for the New Foundation,'' he added, ''but foundation doesn't strike me as a word people will comfortably take to.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: On a variety of policy issues as he promotes his ambitious program, President Obama keeps returning to the idea of building or laying a solid foundation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
''New Freedom'' WOODROW WILSON
''New Deal'' FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT
''Fair Deal'' HARRY S. TRUMAN
''New Frontier'' JOHN F. KENNEDY
''Great Society'' LYNDON B. JOHNSON
 ''New Covenant'' BILL CLINTON 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); JOB CREATION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BILL CLINTON (74%); JOHN PODESTA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



566 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Bill Would Guarantee Up to 7 Paid Sick Days

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
A long-stalled effort to guarantee American workers paid sick days takes a big step forward Monday with the introduction of legislation by Congressional Democrats.
 The proposal went nowhere during the presidency of George W. Bush, but as a senator and then a presidential candidate, Barack Obama backed it, and Michelle Obama embraced the idea last week in a talk to business leaders. 
 Now women's groups, labor unions and other supporters are voicing optimism about its prospects. 
 ''The last eight years, you kept clawing and scratching and didn't get anywhere, but we have a real opportunity now,'' said Representative Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut, who along with Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts will introduce the measure. ''There's something wrong when people have to choose between their jobs and taking care of themselves or their families when someone is sick.''
 Business groups are vowing to block the legislation, arguing that the recession makes this an inopportune time to create a new mandate that they say would raise costs for employers.
 ''Given that small businesses are barely able to keep their heads above water in this economy, we don't think this is the right legislation to be pushing right now,'' said Susan Eckerly, senior vice president at the National Federation of Independent Business, which represents small-business owners.
 Supporters, on the other hand, say the legislation is especially timely now, given the swine flu epidemic.
 The bill, the Healthy Families Act, would be binding on employers that had 15 or more workers. It would guarantee employees one paid hour off for each 30 hours worked, enabling them to earn up to seven paid sick days a year. They would be entitled to claim their days when they or a child, a parent, a spouse or someone else close to them became ill.
 Some lawmakers see the bill as complementing their goal of universal health coverage, a longtime objective of Mr. Kennedy. ''Everyone is at risk,'' he said in a statement, ''when the people who serve our food, clean our offices and care for our elderly can't take time off and get well.''
 The legislation's preamble notes that nearly half of private-sector workers and three-fourths of low-wage workers do not receive paid sick days. Far too often, advocates say, such employees feel compelled to go to work even when ill, because they fear being fired or at the least losing the day's pay.
 Ms. DeLauro recalled that at a meeting with wives of men serving in Iraq, one of them complained that her employer had threatened to fire her because she took two days off when her child was ill.
 ''Her husband is fighting in Iraq,'' Ms. DeLauro said, ''but she may lose her job because there aren't two parents home to deal with the problem of sick kids.''
 In a move timed to coincide with the legislation's introduction, the liberal Center for Economic Policy and Research plans to issue a report on Monday, ''Contagion Nation,'' which finds that the United States is the only industrial nation where workers are guaranteed paid sick leave for neither short-term nor long-term illness.
 San Francisco and the District of Columbia already have laws guaranteeing paid sick days, and voters in Milwaukee overwhelmingly approved such a guarantee last November, although business groups have obtained an injunction that has kept it from taking effect. In addition, the legislatures of a dozen or so states, including Connecticut and Massachusetts, are debating similar measures. 
 During his presidential campaign, Mr. Obama supported a federal guarantee, with his Web site saying he would ''require that employers provide seven paid sick days per year.'' Lawmakers who back the bill acknowledge that it may face difficulties this year, because the president and Congress already have a crowded agenda. But, they said, its chances will be far better in the next session, starting in January, particularly since lawmakers typically find it hard to vote against family-friendly legislation in election years.
 Republican leaders have indicated opposition. Michael Steel, a spokesman for the House Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, said, ''Republicans want to ensure that working families have the flexibility to get the health care they need, but we don't think the answer is a 'one size fits all' government mandate.''
 Business groups are urging their members to speak out against the bill.
 ''We are very worried about this legislation, because it can be demagogued so easily,'' said Randel K. Johnson, vice president for labor, immigration and employee benefits at the United States Chamber of Commerce. ''Some say, 'What's seven days of paid sick leave?' My concern is it would never be just seven days. A year from now it will be 14 days, and then 21.''
 But Lindsey Lee, a coffee shop owner in Madison, Wis., who adopted a policy of paid sick days in 2006, said it had been a success, helping to prevent the spread of illness among his employees.
 ''A person is not coming in sick, and then two days later there are two employees not coming in, and then three days later three employees not coming in,'' Mr. Lee said. ''It has helped in the long run.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Edward M. Kennedy, shown at a White House health care forum in March, is a chief sponsor of the sick-day legislation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SICK LEAVE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); FAMILY (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); INFLUENZA (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (64%); EPIDEMICS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS (54%)

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (77%); ROSA DELAURO (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); MICHELLE OBAMA (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



567 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Spending Twice as Much as He Did in '05 Campaign

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
Despite a commanding lead in the polls, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has already spent $18.7 million on his re-election campaign, nearly twice as much as he had spent at this point in the 2005 race, according to documents released on Friday.
 The spending -- much of it on unusually early television and radio advertising -- was at least ninetimes the amount spent by the mayor's Democratic opponents, and it drew howls of protest from their campaigns. 
 In just two months, from March 11 to May 11, the mayor spent $15.7 million -- more than his general election opponent in 2005, Fernando Ferrer, spent during the entire campaign. 
 ''It's a shock-and-awe approach,'' said Steven A. Cohen, a professor of public affairs at Columbia University. ''He's making it very hard for the opposition to gain any traction.'' 
 So far, William C. Thompson, the city's comptroller, has spent $1.7 million; Representative Anthony D. Weiner of Queens, $963,000; and Councilman Tony Avella of Queens, $117,000.
 All three are participating in the city's campaign finance program, which imposes a spending limit of $6.2 million for the primary. Mr. Bloomberg, as in the past, is not participating in the program. 
 Anne Fenton, a spokeswoman for Mr. Thompson, called the mayor's spending ''obscene.'' 
 ''Mike Bloomberg is spending almost $19 million to try to convince New Yorkers that they need four more years of higher taxes, rising unemployment, record homelessness and overcrowded schools,'' she said.
 Mr. Bloomberg's spending was so lopsided, political consultants said, that it suggested the campaign was focused on securing not just a triumph at the polls in November but a landslide. 
 Most of the mayor's advertising, from well-produced television commercials to polished mailings, is focused on the city's ailing economy. A television ad, for example, shows the mayor on a Brooklyn rooftop, trumpeting a plan to create green jobs, and a glossy brochure details a plan to stem home foreclosures. 
 Aides said the ads were meant to inoculate Mr. Bloomberg, a billionaire, against the kind of backlash that has eroded support for other popular incumbents in times of financial turmoil. 
 The filings show that Mr. Bloomberg paid $8.3 million for political advertising, $1.5 million for polling and $225,000 on rent for the campaign's headquarters in Midtown Manhattan. The bill for refreshments? About $18,000.
 Howard Wolfson, a spokesman for the mayor's re-election campaign, defended the pace and scope of spending.
 ''Every campaign is about engaging voters in a dialogue,'' Mr. Wolfson said. ''This campaign has begun a conversation with New Yorkers about the economy and the mayor's plan to create or save 400,000 jobs. 
 ''As recent polling makes clear,'' he added, ''voters are responding favorably when they learn about the mayor's initiatives, and we are very pleased about that -- but we are not taking anything for granted.''
 At the start of the campaign, aides to the mayor hinted that he would put his campaign on a budget this time, after spending $81 million in 2001 and $84 million in 2005. But talk of spending limits has evaporated. 
 Some of his biggest bills so far: $8.3 million to Squier Knapp Dunn, which produces television ads; $655,473 to Connections Media for Internet ads; and $375,000 to Strategic Telemetry, which researches voters. 
 The filings offered a glimpse into the sometimes glamorous, other times more mundane conditions faced by those who work on the mayor's campaign. Staff members have stayed at the Bryant Park Hotel ($349.83), dined at Morton's steakhouse in Brooklyn ($362.64) and used private car services (at $30 an hour). They have also dined on fare from Dunkin' Donuts, Ruby Tuesday and McDonald's. 
 Political consultants said the mayor ran the risk of alienating voters with his spending in the middle of a deep recession. 
 But it may not influence how New Yorkers vote. They are used to his wealth, Mr. Cohen said. ''There appears to be very little downside to this kind of spending.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 20, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article in some editions on Saturday about the release of documents showing that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has spent $18.7 million on his re-election campaign so far -- nearly twice what he had spent at this point in the 2005 race -- referred incompletely to his total campaign spending for his election in 2001. The amount, $81 million, is adjusted for inflation as of 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); RADIO ADVERTISING (71%); JOB CREATION (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); HOMELESSNESS (64%); FORECLOSURE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); ANTHONY D WEINER (73%); STEVEN COHEN (53%); STEVEN A COHEN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



568 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Abercrombie to Lower Prices; Penney's Profit Falls

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
For months, Abercrombie & Fitch, the teenage apparel chain, has been posting some of the worst sales declines in the retailing industry. Yet the purveyor of $50 tank tops and $60 shorts refused to lower its prices. 
 Until now. 
 On Friday the chain said it would seek better deals on its merchandise from suppliers and pass the savings along. It also said it was taking steps to correct some fashion mistakes, like stocking skirts when the hot trend was dresses. 
 Company executives discussed the changes with investors in a conference call about its first-quarter loss. For the three months that ended May 2, Abercrombie & Fitch lost $26.8 million, or 31 cents a share, in contrast to a profit of $62.1 million, or 69 cents a share, a year ago. Sales at stores open at least a year, a barometer of retail health known as same-store sales, sank 30 percent. 
 To preserve its brand and its margins, Abercrombie & Fitch never offered the same eye-popping bargains as its competitors, even as the retail landscape went from bad to abysmal. 
 ''We've spent years building our brands to compete on quality, aspiration and a unique store experience,'' Mike Jeffries, the chairman and chief executive, said during the conference call. ''Not on price.''
 Yet he acknowledged in a news release on Friday that there is ''a price consciousness dictating shopping habits unlike anything I have ever seen.'' 
 So what to do? 
 Abercrombie & Fitch will offer some more affordable merchandise, particularly in its Hollister stores and its children's divisions. (The company refused to say how much it would lower prices.) The chain is also reviewing its struggling Ruehl store business, for which it will take a charge of up to $55 million before taxes. Same-store sales at Ruehl, geared toward adult shoppers, fell 34 percent in the quarter. Also on Abercrombie & Fitch's to-do list: offer dresses and more colorful and patterned clothing. 
 ''We missed dresses first quarter,'' Mr. Jeffries said during the conference call. ''Our other major miss was print and pattern. As you can see, what's happening out there is highly decorated goods seem to be selling.'' 
 While it fine-tunes its business in the United States, Abercrombie & Fitch is homing in on what its executives consider to be the company's future: international sales, where demand is high. The chain plans to open four more stand-alone stores as well as 20 mall stores in the United States, Canada and Europe this fiscal year. 
 ''I think he's done the right thing,'' Jennifer Black, a retailing analyst and president of Jennifer Black and Associates, said of Mr. Jeffries. ''Once you get onto the promotion wagon, it's really hard to get off.''
 Shares of Abercrombie & Fitch fell $1.15, or 4.2 percent, to close at $26.10.
 Also on Friday, J. C. Penney, the value-priced department store, said its profit for the three months that ended May 2 fell 79 percent, to $25 million, or 11 cents a share, compared with $120 million, or 54 cents a share, for the period a year ago. The first-quarter results were mainly hurt by a hefty $114 million pension plan expense. Sales at stores open at least a year fell 7.5 percent. 
 But there were some signs of improvement. Executives said in a conference call with investors that in the first quarter the company sold more merchandise at regular prices and less at clearance prices.
 In an encouraging sign, J. C. Penney's strongest business was women's apparel, a discretionary category hit hard by the economic downturn. 
 The company has been strengthening its portfolio of brands and emphasizing in its marketing that, as the president and chief merchandising officer, Ken C. Hicks, put it, ''style doesn't have to be expensive.''
 Shares of J. C. Penney fell 11 cents, to close at $26.54.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (90%); TRENDS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); CONFERENCE CALLS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (97%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (97%); AFT (FRA) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (97%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (97%)

PERSON: MICHAEL S JEFFRIES (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (76%); EUROPE (66%)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009



569 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: Death From Above, Outrage Down Below

BYLINE: By DAVID KILCULLEN and ANDREW McDONALD EXUM. 
David Kilcullen, the author of ''The Accidental Guerrilla,'' was a counterinsurgency adviser to Gen. David Petraeus from 2006 to 2008. Andrew Exum, a fellow at the Center for a New American Security, was an Army officer in Iraq and Afghanistan from 2002 to 2004.

 BODY:
IN recent days, the Pentagon has made two major changes in its strategy to defeat the Taliban, Al Qaeda and their affiliates in Afghanistan and Pakistan. First came the announcement that Lt. Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal would take over as the top United States commander in Afghanistan. Next, Pentagon officials said that the United States was giving Pakistan more information on its drone attacks on terrorist targets, while news reports indicated that Pakistani officers would have significant future control over drone routes, targets and decisions to fire weapons (though the military has denied that).
 While we agree with Secretary of Defense Robert Gates that ''fresh eyes were needed'' to review our military strategy in the region, we feel that expanding or even just continuing the drone war is a mistake. In fact, it would be in our best interests, and those of the Pakistani people, to declare a moratorium on drone strikes into Pakistan.
 After the assassination of Benazir Bhutto in December 2007, and following much internal debate, President George W. Bush authorized a broad expansion of drone strikes against a wide array of targets within Pakistan: Qaeda operatives, Pakistan-based members of the Afghan Taliban insurgency and -- in some cases -- other militants bent on destabilizing Pakistan. 
 The use of drones in military operations has steadily grown -- we know from public documents that from last September to this March alone, C.I.A. operatives launched more than three dozen strikes. 
 The appeal of drone attacks for policy makers is clear. For one thing, their effects are measurable. Military commanders and intelligence officials point out that drone attacks have disrupted terrorist networks in Pakistan, killing key leaders and hampering operations. Drone attacks create a sense of insecurity among militants and constrain their interactions with suspected informers. And, because they kill remotely, drone strikes avoid American casualties.
 But on balance, the costs outweigh these benefits for three reasons. 
 First, the drone war has created a siege mentality among Pakistani civilians. This is similar to what happened in Somalia in 2005 and 2006, when similar strikes were employed against the forces of the Union of Islamic Courts. While the strikes did kill individual militants who were the targets, public anger over the American show of force solidified the power of extremists. The Islamists' popularity rose and the group became more extreme, leading eventually to a messy Ethiopian military intervention, the rise of a new regional insurgency and an increase in offshore piracy. 
 While violent extremists may be unpopular, for a frightened population they seem less ominous than a faceless enemy that wages war from afar and often kills more civilians than militants.
 Press reports suggest that over the last three years drone strikes have killed about 14 terrorist leaders. But, according to Pakistani sources, they have also killed some 700 civilians. This is 50 civilians for every militant killed, a hit rate of 2 percent -- hardly ''precision.'' American officials vehemently dispute these figures, and it is likely that more militants and fewer civilians have been killed than is reported by the press in Pakistan. Nevertheless, every one of these dead noncombatants represents an alienated family, a new desire for revenge, and more recruits for a militant movement that has grown exponentially even as drone strikes have increased. 
 Second, public outrage at the strikes is hardly limited to the region in which they take place -- areas of northwestern Pakistan where ethnic Pashtuns predominate. Rather, the strikes are now exciting visceral opposition across a broad spectrum of Pakistani opinion in Punjab and Sindh, the nation's two most populous provinces. Covered extensively by the news media, drone attacks are popularly believed to have caused even more civilian casualties than is actually the case. The persistence of these attacks on Pakistani territory offends people's deepest sensibilities, alienates them from their government, and contributes to Pakistan's instability.
 Third, the use of drones displays every characteristic of a tactic -- or, more accurately, a piece of technology -- substituting for a strategy. These attacks are now being carried out without a concerted information campaign directed at the Pakistani public or a real effort to understand the tribal dynamics of the local population, efforts that might make such attacks more effective.
 To be sure, simply ending the drone strikes is no more a strategy than continuing them. Stabilizing Pakistan will require a focus on securing areas, principally in Punjab and Sindh, that are still under government control, while building up police and civil authorities and refocusing aid on economic development, security and governance. Suspending drone strikes won't fix Pakistan's problems -- but continuing them makes these problems much harder to address.
 Governments typically make several mistakes when attempting to separate violent extremists from populations in which they hide. First, they often overestimate the degree to which a population harboring an armed actor can influence that actor's behavior. People don't tolerate extremists in their midst because they like them, but rather because the extremists intimidate them. Breaking the power of extremists means removing their power to intimidate -- something that strikes cannot do.
 Imagine, for example, that burglars move into a neighborhood. If the police were to start blowing up people's houses from the air, would this convince homeowners to rise up against the burglars? Wouldn't it be more likely to turn the whole population against the police? And if their neighbors wanted to turn the burglars in, how would they do that, exactly? Yet this is the same basic logic underlying the drone war.
 The drone strategy is similar to French aerial bombardment in rural Algeria in the 1950s, and to the ''air control'' methods employed by the British in what are now the Pakistani tribal areas in the 1920s. The historical resonance of the British effort encourages people in the tribal areas to see the drone attacks as a continuation of colonial-era policies.
 The drone campaign is in fact part of a larger strategic error -- our insistence on personalizing this conflict with Al Qaeda and the Taliban. Devoting time and resources toward killing or capturing ''high-value'' targets -- not to mention the bounties placed on their heads -- distracts us from larger problems, while turning figures like Baitullah Mehsud, leader of the Pakistani Taliban umbrella group, into Robin Hoods. Our experience in Iraq suggests that the capture or killing of high-value targets -- Saddam Hussein or Abu Musab al-Zarqawi -- has only a slight and fleeting effect on levels of violence. Killing Mr. Zarqawi bought only 18 days of quiet before Al Qaeda returned to operations under new leadership.
 This is not to suggest that killing terrorists is a bad thing -- on the contrary. But it's not the only thing that matters, and over-emphasizing it wastes resources. The operation that killed Mr. Zarqawi, for example, was not a one-day event. Thousands of hours of intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance were devoted to the elimination ofone man, when units on the ground could have used this time to protect the people from the insurgency that was tearing Iraq apart. 
 Having Osama bin Laden in one's sights is one thing. Devoting precious resources to his capture or death, rather than focusing on protecting the Afghan and Pakistani populations, is another. The goal should be to isolate extremists from the communities in which they live. The best way to do this is to adopt policies that build local partnerships. Al Qaeda and its Taliban allies must be defeated by indigenous forces -- not from the United States, and not even from Punjab, but from the parts of Pakistan in which they now hide. Drone strikes make this harder, not easier.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GRAY318) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); AL-QAEDA (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ASSASSINATION (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%)

PERSON: STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); ETHIOPIA (79%); SOMALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



570 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; HANDLEBARS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: A British Classic, but It's New (And It's Not British, Either)

BYLINE: By JAMES PARCHMAN

DATELINE: CHENNAI, India 

 BODY:
 AMID all the recent buzz over vehicles coming out of India, here is one model you may have missed: the Royal Enfield Bullet Classic C5.
 In some circles, this introduction is bigger news than the debut of the Tata Nano; if the past is any guide, the next all-new Royal Enfield Bullet won't arrive for another half-century. While a list of motorcycle brands predating Royal Enfield is short -- Harley-Davidson, Triumph and a handful of others qualify -- the tally of bike models that have lasted 54 years is pretty much limited to the Royal Enfield Bullet. 
 The Bullet Classic C5 (not to be confused with the Bullet Classic, a much older design, or the Bullet Classic G5, a model that uses the newest engine in an older chassis) went on sale in Europe late last year. The first production bikes destined for the United States began rolling off the assembly line here at the Thiruvottiyur factory, where Bullets have been made for more than 50 years, in mid-February and are expected in showrooms next month. 
 To say that the C5 is a striking motorcycle or one that looks to have been lifted directly from a motorcycle museum is no overstatement. On a visit to the factory in this coastal city of more than four million people (and known as Madras until 1996), it easily stood out from the olive-green military Bullets and chrome-laden domestic-market Electras and Thunderbirds awaiting final inspection and shipment. 
 The heart of the C5 is its air-cooled 499 cc power plant, an all-new design that continues the single-cylinder layout of its predecessors. It retains the trademark cadence of a thumper -- the common nickname given to large-displacement 1-cylinder bikes -- but now the engine and transmission, formerly separate components, have been integrated to create the Unit Construction Engine. The UCE, as Royal Enfield calls it, is fuel-injected and designed to be efficient, reliable and environmentally friendly. It will be used on all Royal Enfield export models.
 The C5 will cost $6,395, not including a destination charge of about $300, depending on the dealer's location. It will be offered in black, deep maroon and a retro teal green that is midway between mint and turquoise. The primary color is used on the frame, fenders and side-cover lids; the fuel tank features white panels with a prominent Royal Enfield logo. Knee pads and hand-painted pinstripes complement the 3.8-gallon tank.
 Taking into consideration the dense traffic and left-lane driving protocol around Chennai, my testing of the Bullet C5 was confined to Royal Enfield's track. Fully fueled, the C5 felt solid at 412 pounds, and 18-inch Avon Speedmaster tires provided good grip. Steering was responsive, but not twitchy. 
 The bicycle-style sprung solo seat is comfortably large, and a passenger pillion will be available as a dealer option. The instrument panel is spartan; I found myself wishing for a tachometer.
 If the randomly picked test machine was any indication, Royal Enfield got it right with the electronic fuel injection from Keihin, a Japanese maker that supplies many bike companies. The C5 started quickly and the idle was smooth and quiet; transitions between power on and off -- a maximum of 27 horsepower, according to the company -- were seamless. 
 The C5 is electric-start only, though other models with the UCE will retain the kick pedal for now. A cable-actuated clutch provides good feel, allowing the 5-speed transmission to shift flawlessly. The front brake is a single 11-inch disc; combined with a rear drum, ample stopping power is on hand for the C5's achievable speeds.
 The claimed top speed of 82 miles an hour will not keep the C5 in the lead dog position for long, even in a pack of 250 cc Kawasaki Ninjas. However, a design requirement was for all-day cruising at 70 m.p.h. That's higher than the speed limit in much of the United States, and should not overly tax machine or rider. 
 An unseen cost of many motorcycles is the need for regular maintenance that requires a trip to the dealer. The Bullet Classic C5 shines in this respect. Being air-cooled, there is no need to look after antifreeze and radiator hoses. Hydraulic lifters in the UCE motor eliminate periodic valve-lash adjustments; the filters for air and oil can be replaced in minutes. Royal Enfields equipped with the UCE are being backed with a two-year unlimited mileage warranty in the United States.
 Kevin Mahoney, the importer of Royal Enfield for the United States, said that the fuel economy of the UCE engine, over 80 miles a gallon in early tests, will be a pleasant surprise. 
 California riders need not reach for their checkbooks, at least not yet -- Royal Enfields are currently 49-state machines. The company expects California certification to be completed this year and bikes to be on sale there by spring of 2010.
 Like Harley-Davidson, Royal Enfield holds its heritage as an important part of the product's story. Gordon G. May, author of ''Royal Enfield: The Legend Rides On,'' writes that 1891 was the year in which production of bicycles and rifle parts began in Redditch, England. 
 Royal Enfield was an established motorcycle manufacturer when the single-cylinder Bullet made its debut in 1932. Its chrome trim, full mud guards and peanut-shaped gas tank made it a sporty addition to a company whose products had become a bit stodgy. 
 The Indian military played a major role in assuring the Bullet's longevity. In 1953, Prime Minister Nehru began encouraging development of a domestic automobile manufacturing industry. Subsequently, 800 British 350 cc Bullet's were sold to the Army as kits, to be assembled in India. 
 Enfield India was formed in 1955 to make civilian and military Bullets under license. The following year, the current factory in suburban Chennai began production, using tooling shipped from Redditch. In the succeeding half-century, the fortunes of Enfield India generally waxed, while those of the parent company -- and the entire British motorcycle industry -- were on the wane. 
 In the 1950s, the roster of British motorcycle brands included AJS, Ariel, BSA, Matchless, Norton, Royal Enfield, Triumph, Velocette and Vincent; today only the Triumph name continues as a production brand (and Norton has had many attempts at resuscitation). Bullet production in England ended in 1962. Attempts were made to revive the marque but it folded in the 1970s.
 Enfield India continued churning out Bullets, even exporting them to Europe in the 1980s. The company was also innovative in production of a diesel-powered motorcycle, the Taurus. The 6.5 horsepower machine achieved over 160 m.p.g. but production was halted in 2002, before the rise in fuel prices that might have secured its viability.
 India has since become an automotive parts powerhouse. Local sourcing has helped Royal Enfield to remain competitive, and the domestic material content of the C5 exceeds 90 percent. With the Bullet Classic C5, the Royal Enfield designers have succeeded in building on the Bullet heritage and in their interpretation of retro-classic British style. 
 If you're the owner of a few gray hairs, you can easily picture Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn, dressed in tweed and astride matching green C5s, out for an afternoon ride in the English countryside. A little younger? Substitute Brad and Angelina for Cary and Kate, leather for tweed, black C5 for green and upstate New York for the Midlands; it still works. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BORN OLD Clockwise from right, the Royal Enfield Bullet Classic C5 is all new, despite its vintage look, and is built in the factory where Bullets have been made since the 1950s using traditional processes like hand-pinstriping. The logo, top, recognizes Enfield's roots. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES PARCHMAN (LOGO, FACTORY)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); MOTORCYCLES (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMIL NADU, INDIA (90%) INDIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



571 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; SHAKEN & STIRRED; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Shine and Polish For a Barroom Staple

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MILES

 BODY:
DUANE Fernandez lost a job because of a Rusty Nail. This was five years ago, when Mr. Fernandez was starting his first solo shift as a bartender at a Greenwich Village restaurant. 
 Noting his manager's new hire, the restaurant's owner asked Mr. Fernandez if he knew how to make a Rusty Nail, a Scotch-and-Drambuie cocktail that, like the Rat Pack members who favored it, had its ring-a-ding-ding heyday in the 1960s. Mr. Fernandez, far more attuned to the vodka drinks then in vogue, drew a blank. ''I was fired on the spot,'' he said. ''That was it.''
 Mr. Fernandez -- a 33-year-old Brooklyn native who can now be found behind the bar at Entwine, a restaurant that opened this month on Washington Street in the West Village -- loves telling that story, even the part about being unemployed for a month and a half afterward. 
 That's because there's a happy ending. It's served in a highball glass, with a basil leaf draped over the ice, and goes by the name Scotland Yard. The drink's flavor, owing to a fragrant dose of basil and a syrup made with lemon grass and ginger, is herbal, sweet and summery. But there's a Rusty Nail buried deep inside. 
 ''When I went home that day, after being fired, the first thing I did was look up the recipe for a Rusty Nail,'' said Mr. Fernandez, whose neck is tattooed with the Chinese symbol for longevity. ''It stayed in my mind forever.'' Long enough, anyway, for basil and lemon grass to sprout from it.
 Mr. Fernandez's tweak may be a personal rebuttal to a quick-tempered former employer. But it's also a riposte to the perception that Scotch, mixed with anything besides soda, must be brooding, autumnal and masculine. 
 The Rusty Nail has always had a grizzly reputation (there's that name, for starters), as portrayed by this description from the blog Barfly's Beat: ''a quintessential 'old man' drink that sounds like it will knock you in the gulliver and send you on a third-class trip to guttersville.'' Whatever your gulliver is, the Scotland Yard won't assault it, and unlike many Scotch drinks, which seem to bloom best by the glow of a wood fire, this one thrives in sunlight. And as Mr. Fernandez noted, ''the basil and ginger give it a very feminine twist.'' 
 He's not alone in reclaiming the Rusty Nail from the gnarled, liver-spotted hands that have been tending it since the '60s. At the Raines Law Room, which opened this year in the Flatiron District, muddled ginger is added to the Scotch-and-Drambuie formula, along with the fizz of club soda, in a drink called a Rusty Collins. The Highland Cooler, at the Brandy Library on Moore Street in TriBeCa, is a Rusty Nail leavened with ginger beer. 
 ''Who drinks Rusty Nails in 2004?'' Mr. Fernandez remembered grumbling, on his way home from being fired. Five years later, he's happy with his answer.
 Recipe: Scotland Yard
 Adapted from Entwine
 2 ounces blended Scotch
 1 ounce Drambuie
 3/4 ounce lemon-grass ginger syrup*
 Splash of freshly squeezed lemon juice
 6leaves fresh basil.
 Tear up five of the basil leaves and add them to a cocktail shaker along with the Scotch, Drambuie, syrup and lemon juice. Add ice and shake vigorously, then strain into a highball glass filled with ice. Garnish with the remaining basil leaf.
 Yield: 1 serving
 *To make lemon-grass ginger syrup: In a medium saucepan combine 2 cups sugar, 2 cups water, a peeled thumb-size knob of ginger and three chopped stalks of lemon grass. Simmer for 20 minutes, then strain. This will keep for several weeks, refrigerated.
 Recipe: Scotland Yard
 Adapted from Entwine
 2 ounces blended Scotch
 1 ounce Drambuie
 3/4 ounce lemon-grass ginger syrup*
 Splash of freshly squeezed lemon juice
 6leaves fresh basil.
 Tear up five of the basil leaves and add them to a cocktail shaker along with the Scotch, Drambuie, syrup and lemon juice. Add ice and shake vigorously, then strain into a highball glass filled with ice. Garnish with the remaining basil leaf.
 Yield: 1 serving
 *To make lemon-grass ginger syrup: In a medium saucepan combine 2 cups sugar, 2 cups water, a peeled thumb-size knob of ginger and three chopped stalks of lemon grass. Simmer for 20 minutes, then strain. This will keep for several weeks, refrigerated.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO LIGHTEN UP: A Scotland Yard, a twist on a Rusty Nail, at Entwine. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); DISMISSALS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (87%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



572 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: A Family Falls Behind on the Mortgage Without Even Knowing It

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

DATELINE: Norwalk 

 BODY:
 WHILE M.J. and Rick Auz fought their way out of foreclosure by successfully renegotiating the terms of their mortgage, their struggle to keep their four-bedroom ranch home here hasn't ended. They still worry about falling behind on their current mortgage payments, they said, and sometimes they wish they were no longer homeowners.
 ''If I didn't have children, I would just walk away,'' said Ms. Auz, 40, while sipping a cup of tea at her pine kitchen table. Lines crease her forehead and she speaks in a patter of slow deflation as she describes the endless hours she spends on the telephone trying to get information from the bank that now services the loan. ''It's an ongoing nightmare.'' 
 Ms. Auz, a nurse at a local home care agency and mother of two school-age children, said that she had no idea that her family was behind on its mortgage payments until it was almost too late. From the beginning, the couple arranged to make their mortgage payment through automatic drafts from her husband's credit union. When the interest on the mortgage adjusted to 12.5 percent from 8.3, raising the monthly payment to $3,500 from $2,500 in November 2007, the payments from the credit union did not automatically increase, she said. Ms. Auz said she did not recall getting anything in the mail notifying her of the higher rate and payments. 
 She was not aware of the shortfall, she said, until her minivan was hit by another car in April 2008. When she looked at her credit report as she was trying to buy a new car, she learned that several full mortgage payments had been missed. 
 Ms. Auz said she called the bank to try to clear up what she thought was a misunderstanding, but the bank had stopped accepting her payments. In late June the Auzes were served with foreclosure papers.
 The family moved quickly to sell their home, located on a busy street in Norwalk, which they had bought in 1999 for $190,000, and refinanced in 2005 for $285,000, using the equity to make home improvements. They listed the house for $450,000 to see if they could pay off the mortgage, but pulled it off the market after price cuts did not lead to offers. They appeared in court in July and found themselves explaining their case to a lawyer representing Lehman Brothers, which at the time handled their mortgage. At that hearing, a court-appointed mediator referred them to the Housing Development Fund, a nonprofit group in Stamford that advises homeowners facing foreclosure.
 Through the late summer and fall, their foreclosure adviser, Dahlia Japhet, tried to arrange new terms for their loan. By November, the bank said it would let them reinstate it if they made monthly payments of $3,100 at an 8.5 percent interest rate. Their $285,000 loan has now grown to $311,000, largely from accumulated fees and interest.
 Joan Carty, president of the Housing Development Fund and Ms. Japhet's supervisor, stressed that the Auzes' was not an easy case. They had a mortgage that was backed by a bank, which tends to carry more restrictions on modification than government-backed Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac mortgages. And their mortgage was with Lehman Brothers, which had just filed for bankruptcy protection when they negotiated the modification. 
 The Auzes now deal with all of the complications and frustrations that continue even after a foreclosure has been resolved. For example, Chase, which now handles their loan, calls every month to say it hasn't received their mortgage payment even though it has been sent. 
 Mr. Auz spent nights calling the bank trying to get documents to prepare their tax return. The Auzes even asked their foreclosure counselor to help them get the forms. But Ms. Japhet told them that because she is handling 70 new cases a week, she was too busy to help. Thomas Kelly, a spokesman for Chase, said that the bank was trying to add more workers to handle all of the phone calls for people requiring loan modifications.
 The Auzes still debate whether they made the right decision to accept a deal. To help meet their mortgage payments, they live on a tight budget, mainly eating pasta and rice. Ms. Auz continues to drive a 1997 minivan that she says is ''on its last legs.'' She said the stress led them to discuss divorce. But the Auzes are trying to hold on.
 ''It's not worth losing our lives over this house,'' she said. ''In the end, there's only so much you can do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HANGING IN: M.J. and Rick Auz at home in Norwalk. After their interest rate reset, a mix-up caused them to fall behind.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); DEFLATION (77%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (77%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); NURSES & NURSING (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); LAWYERS (60%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



573 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Travel Magazine; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: The Talk

BYLINE: By NATHAN LUMP

 BODY:
CULTURATI / (kul& cher a& te) / n. / Those who make, influence and follow cultural affairs, particularly in the visual and performing arts, e.g., '''The culturati have been buzzing about the gallery scene in Glasgow, so I'm going next week to check it out.'' Among the world's most active jet-setters, the culturati also point the way for mainstream travelers who are increasingly interested in engaging with places through culture. 
 D.I.Y. / (de e we&) / adj. / Acronym for Do-It-Yourself. Applied to projects, communities and establishments that have an improvised quality, as in ''In Pittsburgh we went to this bar-cafe-performance space put together by some artists -- very cool, very D.I.Y.'' In tough economic times, places with a D.I.Y. ethos are vital creative hubs, thanks to the intersection of original ideas and low overhead.
EXPERIENTIAL / (ek spir& e en& shel) / adj. / Buzzword tied to the rise of experience as the most important motivator for today's travelers, as in, ''We're all about experiential travel -- meeting with craftswomen in India, touring an art park in Cologne, fishing in Russia.'' Captures the quest for meaning, as opposed to pure R&R, that gives trips a greater sense of value. NATHAN LUMP

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (72%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%); INDIA (68%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009



574 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1796 words

HEADLINE: Foreclosures, With No End in Sight

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM and JANET ROBERTS

DATELINE: IRVINGTON 

 BODY:
 THE boarded-up houses of Grove Street are multiplying, taunting Cassandra Sparrow as she fights to keep her home. 
 Ms. Sparrow has lived in her single-family house on the street since 1995, when she had a well-paying job as a lab technician and bought the house, for $79,000, to share with her companion. But about six years ago, Ms. Sparrow learned she had lupus. ''I loved my work,'' she said. ''But it makes my arms swell up.'' 
 She has not been able to keep a full-time job in the years since because of the pain from the swelling and has applied for Supplemental Security Income, a disability benefit. As she waits to be approved, she has fallen more than $18,000 behind on her mortgage payments over about two years. Without help, she said, she will most likely lose her house this summer. 
 If it were foreclosed, it would join eight boarded-up houses on her block, in a neighborhood that is increasingly deserted and one of the worst hit in the metropolitan New York area by home mortgage foreclosures, according to street-level mapping analysis of foreclosure data by The New York Times. 
 The shuttered houses and for-sale signs in Irvington and neighboring Newark have helped give Essex County a foreclosure rate almost double the overall rate in the region. So many homeowners are at least 90 days behind on their mortgage payments that the delinquency rate in Essex exceeds that of Genesee County, Mich. -- home of Flint, a symbol for cities economically devastated by the sinking fortunes of America's auto industry. 
 At least 6 percent of Essex County homes -- more than 10,000 in all -- have been in foreclosure since 2005, the highest rate of any county in New Jersey, New York City, Long Island or the Connecticut suburbs, according to an analysis by The Times of more than 182,000 homes in foreclosure around the region from 2005 through August 2008. 
 More than 82,000 of those homes are in New Jersey. Plot them on a map, and it becomes clear that no corner of the state has escaped the economic downturn. Nor has the picture improved since last summer. Delinquency rates in 13 of New Jersey's 21 counties are now among the highest in the region. 
 The problem has hit heaviest in the state's urban areas -- cities including Newark, Paterson, Elizabeth and Willingboro -- where most residents are black or Hispanic, according to an analysis by The Times of data from American Foreclosures Inc., publishers of NJLisPendens.com. In New Jersey's mostly black census tracts, more than 9 percent of homes have been in foreclosure since 2005 -- more than four times the rate for mostly white tracts. In primarily Hispanic areas, the rate was more than 6 percent, triple the rate in mostly white tracts.
 Nationally, a report issued Tuesday by the Pew Hispanic Center said that gains made in homeownership over the past decade by African-Americans and native-born Latinos were tied disproportionately to relaxed lending standards and subprime loans and that the gains had eroded faster in the downturn than those of whites.
 ''It's like people just walked away,'' said Frank Perry, 65, who has lived on Grove Street for 25 years, moving here when the area was filled with working-class families. Now, fed up with the neighborhood's deterioration, he is planning to sell his house, despite the depressed real estate market. 
 The people coping with foreclosure in these neighborhoods include longtime owners like Ms. Sparrow who have lost their income because of the recession or illness. Others who are struggling include local investors, some of whom bought multifamily units when mortgage loans were easy to obtain but have had trouble finding reliable renters. 
 The mayor of Newark, Cory A. Booker, rents an apartment in the city owned by one of those investors. ''They bought one or two or three homes and thought they could get their money back from a rental,'' Mr. Booker said, adding that his own grandfather made similar investments -- and lots of money -- in Los Angeles in the 1980s. 
 Many Newark owners ''acquired properties in a nefarious manner,'' the mayor said. Others, like his landlord, ''saw in our city a place to invest, and got caught in the greatest modern scam and housing bubble.'' 
 Between 2005 and 2007 -- the period of risky subprime lending faulted for many of today's economic woes -- high interest rates were assigned to more than one in five mortgage loans sold to New Jersey borrowers buying primary residences, a New York Times analysis of federal mortgage lending data found. Black and Hispanic borrowers were more than three times as likely to end up with high-cost loans as white borrowers, which helps explain why areas with a large percentage of minority residents are seeing much higher foreclosure rates.
 Linda E. Fisher, a professor at the Seton Hall University School of Law who studies mortgage fraud and who represents borrowers in Newark, said that in black neighborhoods with high rates of subprime lending, fraud at some point in the mortgage process ''was near universal.'' 
 In the last year, Professor Fisher said, a new scheme aimed at borrowers has become more common: so-called modification scams in which borrowers are asked for upfront fees in exchange for help modifying their loans. And foreclosure rescue schemes involving straw purchasers have increased faster than prosecutors can contain them, she said.
 The number of residential mortgages with payments more than 90 days past due, a strong precursor to foreclosure, has grown much worse across the state since the start of 2007, when the interest rates on many of these high-cost mortgages began adjusting upward, making them unaffordable for many borrowers. 
 The percentage of mortgages 90 days past due was above 3 percent in only two New Jersey counties -- Essex and Cumberland -- in 2006. At the time, that delinquency rate was more than double the state average. That grew to 8 counties in 2007 and 17 in 2008; in March, all but one of the state's 21 counties -- Hunterdon -- had delinquency rates of 3 percent or more.
 Among states, New Jersey had the 10th-highest mortgage delinquency rate in March, according to preliminary data from First American CoreLogic, which collects data representing an estimated 85 percent of all outstanding mortgages nationwide. New Jersey's rate, 5.9 percent, was a full percentage point higher than those of New York and Connecticut, but about eight points lower than top-ranked Florida's. 
 With no end in sight to the foreclosures, local authorities are scrambling to get ahead of a crisis that threatens cities like Newark, which estimates that 2,500 homes -- almost 10 percent of all noncommercial residential properties -- are in some stage of the foreclosure process. The Newark/Essex County Foreclosure Prevention Taskforce has sent volunteers on walkabouts through the most devastated corners, tearing down signs for foreclosure rescue schemes and directing homeowners to housing counselors. 
 Newark has also received a share from about $64 million in federal neighborhood stabilization funds that have flowed into the state: It is using its allotment to provide loans to nonprofit groups to help them acquire and renovate small rental properties. ''This is really a trench fight for us,'' Mayor Booker said. Impoverished neighborhoods that showed signs of stabilizing are in danger of slipping backward because of foreclosures. ''That's my fear,'' he said. ''But it's not a fait accompli.''
 The last year has seen a raft of new efforts by legislators and the Corzine administration to respond to the crisis. In January, the state's judiciary began a court-sponsored mediation program for homeowners; so far, the program has received more than a thousand requests for help. New laws require lenders to tell municipalities about foreclosures, and several programs run by the state's Housing and Mortgage Financing Agency offer loans to struggling homeowners and provide funds so that nonprofit agencies can hire and train more counselors.
 But given the depth of the crisis, some say much more action is needed. Diane Sterner, executive director of the Housing and Community Development Network of New Jersey, said more pressure needed to be put on lenders, including requiring them to provide more information about their efforts to resolve foreclosures as well as to pay a fee when they foreclose to help finance state efforts to keep people in their homes.
 Ms. Sterner said the growing catalog of state and federal aid programs was essential but still confusing to the various counselors and lenders charged with implementing them. ''More could be done to make them user-friendly,'' she said. 
 The Obama administration has only recently put together the pieces of its two-month-old plan to help homeowners avoid foreclosure. ''The homeowner is left with their fingers crossed,'' said Tom Margiotta, a housing counselor who works for the City of Paterson and is a former mortgage banker. In the last six months, he said, he has counseled 136 clients, and was able to help all but 40 of them modify their loans. 
 Many of Mr. Margiotta's clients have loans that will adjust early next year. The foreclosures look ''kind of like a mountain,'' he said. ''And we're not on the downside.'' 
 The effects of the crisis have reached beyond homeowners to their tenants. A block from Ms. Sparrow's house on Grove Street, Andrea Lee, 45, is one of the state's thousands of nervous renters told by their landlord that his or her mortgage loan was delinquent. ''He told me if it got desperate, he would let me know,'' she said. 
 When Ms. Lee was younger and living in Newark, Irvington was where families wanted to move, she said. Grove Street ''was so pretty,'' she said. ''Now, every other house is abandoned or burned down. It went straight downhill. Not a bumpy road -- straight down.''
 Standing on her porch, Ms. Sparrow became visibly upset remembering a time when she kept up her home, before it was embarrassing to let a visitor inside. The trash behind the boarded-up house next door ensures a steady traffic of rats, she said. 
 Friends and relatives have helped her with money, including her brother Rory Sparrow, a former basketball player with the New York Knicks. But she said she had not gone back to him. ''He has his own problems,'' she said. 
 A mediation counselor who works at New Jersey Citizen Action, Wade Wheeler, said Ms. Sparrow's monthly mortgage payments would be reasonable -- about $1,200 -- if she were able to get the disability payments she has applied for and could persuade the bank to add her arrears to her loan principal. ''We're just asking for a couple of months' forbearance,'' he said -- enough time, maybe, to keep Ms. Sparrow in her house.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HARD TIMES: A boarded-up home sits between occupied houses on Grove Street, in Irvington
the neighborhood is filling up with properties that have been foreclosed by lenders.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: Foreclosing the Future: Driven by high-cost subprime borrowing, default is spreading across the metropolitan area. Once-blighted neighborhoods that had been gentrifying with the free flow of mortgage dollars are now suffering an epidemic of default, and thousands stand to lose their savings and their homes.
Falling Behind: The number of mortgages in delinquency has shown a steady increase through this year, and heralds the potential for an even further spread of foreclosure.(Sources: First American CoreLogic
Property Shark (www.propertyshark.com)
Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy
Long Island Real Estate Report
The Warren Group
American Foreclosures
Western Technologies Group
Westchester County clerk)(CHART BY FORD FESSENDEN AND JANET ROBERTS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
In Default: New Jersey's black and Hispanic neighborhoods have been hard hit by foreclosure. Newark and Elizabeth are among the leaders in default filings by lenders.(Sources: American Foreclosures
 Western Technologies Group) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); CITIES (87%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); APPROVALS (69%); CENSUS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



575 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2071 words

HEADLINE: NBC Hired a Hit Maker. It's Still Waiting.

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
WHEN NBC hired Ben Silverman in May 2007, he was the hottest executive in the television business, the man who had a hand in bringing reality shows and ''The Office'' to America. He also happened to be taking a job he had dreamed about as a junior high schooler hooked on television: the top programmer position at NBC. 
 Two years in, his dream job is significantly different. So is Mr. Silverman.
 His assignment of reviving NBC's long-troubled fortunes in prime time has proved heavier lifting than Mr. Silverman anticipated, thanks to a combination of external factors -- like a writers' strike and a battered economy -- and internal factors, including some gossip-stoking incidents in his personal life and a few comments about others that he now acknowledges were ill-advised. 
 And as always, there is the issue of ratings. 
 While it has been a meager year everywhere for hits in the network business, NBC has for several years been all but desperate for a new breakout show -- or two or three. Mr. Silverman's first full cycle of programs has not yet produced anything fitting that description. The fall lineup was fallow; two spring entries have generated some great reviews but only hints of future ratings gold.
 When the hits did not flow in the fall, it enflamed critics who were already disposed to find fault with Mr. Silverman over what they labeled as arrogance and a self-involved management style.
 Some detractors, rooting for his exit, have suggested that he and NBC can't wait to part company. But Mr. Silverman, who is 38, says he is staying put. ''I am a happy worker at NBC,'' he said in a recent interview in Manhattan. ''I plan to stay at NBC as part of the NBC family. I'm there. I'm committed.''
 Jeff Zucker, Mr. Silverman's boss and the chief executive of NBC Universal, says he continues to value Mr. Silverman's work. ''Ben has a skill set that is incredibly appropriate for these times,'' he said. ''If we weren't supportive of Ben, he wouldn't be here.''
 Still, the fact that there has been no formal deal announced to renew Mr. Silverman's contract will probably set off speculation among Mr. Silverman's critics that Mr. Zucker does not want to make a public endorsement of him.
 As for his personal life, Mr. Silverman said he had taken steps to temper his social profile, which made him a frequent target in the Hollywood blogosphere. (He famously held a party populated by models in bikinis and white tigers in cages.) 
 ''I am more conscious of how I'm being presented,'' he said.
 Not that he doesn't acknowledge some missteps. He was quoted dismissing two network competitors as ''D-girls'' -- or low-level development executives. ''I should never have called them that,'' Mr. Silverman said.
 ''Ben made some mistakes in his first year,'' Mr. Zucker said. ''The first year was a learning experience. He had to learn how to work inside a corporation.''
 THE ratings -- and Mr. Zucker's expectations -- have ratcheted up the pressure on Mr. Silverman to make something positive happen quickly, certainly within the next year. The programming team under him has been revamped and given wider responsibilities. And Mr. Silverman and NBC seem to have agreed informally that he will continue on a year-to-year basis after his initial contract expires in June. 
 Among NBC's target audience -- viewers ages 18 to 49 -- this season's ratings have been flat, not bad in a business of mostly consistent downward movement. But in its current position, still last among the major networks, NBC needs up, not flat; it also had the Super Bowl this season and it won't next year. 
 So, to pick up that slack, it will require something (or several somethings) shiny and successful out of Mr. Silverman's shop. 
 ''We need better shows,'' Mr Zucker said. ''That is priority No. 1 right now.''
 Ever confident, Mr. Silverman believes that he has the goods coming next fall. 
 Mr. Zucker said he expected better shows to begin to emerge more easily, mainly thanks to the realignment of duties he put in place at NBC Entertainment early this year. The principal change involved the replacement of Mr. Silverman's hand-picked top lieutenant, Teri Weinberg, with a veteran NBC program development executive, Angela Bromstad.
 One consequence of that change has been less day-to-day involvement for Mr. Silverman in program development decisions as well as the calls on which shows to ''greenlight'' into production. 
 Few naysayers are willing to go on the record because they still need to do business with him. One program supplier said Mr. Silverman has been marginalized, and focuses more on the marketing of shows than their creation. 
 But a supplier who is willing to go on the record has a different take. ''Ben is always front and center, where he needs to be,'' said Zack Van Amburg, co-president of Sony Television, who cited Mr. Silverman's participation in the development of that studio's comedy called ''Community,'' from the first cast reading of the script. (The series was selected for NBC's fall schedule.)
 Mr. Silverman said he remained a participant in decisions to greenlight shows, and he argued for patience before his programming grade is handed out.
 ''I'd like to think time will tell,'' he said, ''because you can't really judge your programming skills in a strike-shortened, 18-month period.''
 MR. SILVERMAN'S background is more high culture than pop culture. The son of an avant-garde composer, he forged his reputation in television as an independent -- and untraditional -- operator. In 1995, he became an agent at William Morris and relocated to London, then considered a show-business backwater. 
 It was there that he noticed a trend sweeping European television: reality programming. Mr. Silverman became a middleman in deals that brought shows like ''Who Wants to Be a Millionaire'' and ''Survivor'' to American networks. 
 That led Mr. Silverman to create Reveille, a production studio. Reveille generated a string of successful shows on cable, like ''Nashville Star'' and ''The Tudors,'' but gained real prominence for its network shows. Two Reveille series, ''The Office'' and ''The Biggest Loser,'' remain the biggest hits on NBC. 
 While at Reveille, Mr. Silverman became an eager spokesman for a vision of the network business built around international co-productions and partnerships with advertisers to get their messages directly into the content. For example, he created a reality show called ''The Restaurant'' with the backing of American Express; the company's card was used exclusively in the show. He arrived at NBC prepared to carry out those plans.
 ''What I didn't realize is, it's really hard to have a vision running a network,'' Mr. Silverman said. ''You can have an agenda. But it's almost impossible to have a vision because of the scale of the business and the entropy that already exists.''
 In the spring of 2007, when Mr. Zucker turned to Mr. Silverman, NBC was starved for hits, especially the kind the network has been associated with for a generation: high-quality drama (''ER,'' ''The West Wing'') and classic comedy (''Seinfeld,'' ''Friends'').
 Initially, Mr. Silverman couldn't do much because he arrived after NBC's fall slate was locked in. But he did have an early effect on one NBC product: he devised a deal with the satellite service DirecTV to keep the critically acclaimed ''Friday Night Lights'' in production through two additional seasons.
 Once he was in full control, Mr. Silverman tried to revive some older franchises, both in reality (''American Gladiators,'' which worked for one cycle of programs before fading) and drama (''Knight Rider,'' conceived partly as a deal with Ford, which supplied the car that was the central character. It ran for this season and was canceled). In the wake of the writers' strike, NBC did not have many pilots and bought some shows simply on the basis of scripts. None of those worked out. The most ambitious drama, ''Kings,'' which played as a biblical allegory, won positive reviews but puny ratings. 
 From the start, many of Mr. Silverman's management decisions came under attack from some quarters of the Hollywood establishment. Ms. Weinberg, initially in charge of program development, became a lightning rod for anger from some producers who said she was too inexperienced and played favorites. Ms. Weinberg said on Friday that at NBC she was, ''collaborative, smart, inclusive and easy to work with.''
 Another focus of scrutiny about Mr. Silverman has been the deal to sell Reveille, completed in February. Critics suggested that while Mr. Silverman was being paid as an executive, it looked as if he was in a position to help build up his company before selling it for an estimated $200 million to Elisabeth Murdoch, the daughter of Rupert Murdoch of the News Corporation.
 Reveille certainly benefited when other shows it owned were added to NBC's list. (Mr. Silverman imported one comedy, ''Kath and Kim,'' from Australia while he still ran Reveille.) 
 Mr. Zucker said that there was nothing improper in how Mr. Silverman dealt with Reveille. When he signed Mr. Silverman, Mr. Zucker said he agreed to a process in which he, and not Mr. Silverman, would have final say in ordering shows from Reveille. 
 Mr. Silverman said: ''People didn't even know it, but NBCU owned a piece of the deal. And they made all their money back on it already.'' Mr. Zucker confirmed these details, saying NBC made an undisclosed profit. (Not as much as Mr. Silverman; he made an estimated $125 million.)
 Ms. Murdoch, who runs the Shine Group, professes nothing but satisfaction -- though she also happens to be one of Mr. Silverman's closest friends. ''We now have two powerful creative engines making hit shows in the two most valuable markets in the world,'' meaning the United States and Britain, Ms. Murdoch said in an e-mail message.
 Looking ahead, Mr. Silverman said he was feeling positive about the new season. 
 ''I'm starting to get excited about it,'' he said, pointing especially to NBC's move of Jay Leno to an across-the-board slot at 10 p.m. weeknights. 
 That move was handled entirely by Mr. Zucker, though he credited Mr. Silverman with establishing a strong relationship with Mr. Leno. 
 ''I'm really focused on what we're doing right now, and on launching more shows off the Winter Olympics as well,'' Mr. Silverman said. ''That's one reason I want to stay. I want to see this through. I really think we've got a little momentum.''
 That sentiment comes easy at every network this time of year, when pilots for new shows are arriving. But Ms. Bromstad has received high marks for stabilizing NBC's entertainment operation. 
 She described the new arrangement as a partnership that is working well. She said Mr. Silverman handles the larger strategy and also makes deals with talent and producers. She handles the day-to-day duties of taking pitches and ordering scripts.
 ''I love Ben,'' she said. ''We're moving in different directions and doing different things.'' 
 THERE is no doubt that in recent months, Mr. Silverman has altered his approach to both his personal and professional lives. 
 Mr. Zucker says he believes Mr. Silverman has made the necessary adjustments. He credited Mr. Silverman's showmanship as NBC's front man for presentations to advertisers this month. ''The advertisers feel better than they have in years,'' he said.
 Mr. Silverman pitched a batch of new comedies and dramas, including two introduced this spring, ''Parks and Recreation'' and ''Southland,'' a police series that was the best-reviewed show on network television this year. They will be the first scripted shows in Mr. Silverman's tenure to return for a second season. He also rejuvenated the ''Apprentice'' reality franchise. 
 And he continues to try to find ways to merge advertisers' messages into the network's programming. Eric Hadley, general manager of worldwide marketing for Microsoft, said the company had ambitious plans to place product messages in NBC shows.
 ''The way Ben thinks about shows, it takes in programming, advertising and what's culturally relevant,'' Mr. Hadley said.
 ''Those kinds of deals are what we have to do to drive the survival of our content base,'' Mr. Silverman said. ''At the end of the day if we're still going to make the best programming in the world, we've got to find the funding for it.''
 ''I am resilient,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In his two years at NBC Entertainment, Ben Silverman has not had a breakout show. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL DRINKWATER/NBC) (pg.BU1)
''We need better shows,'' says Jeff Zucker, the chief executive of NBC Universal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHANNON STAPLETON/REUTERS)
Angela Bromstad is credited with stabilizing NBC's entertainment operation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS HASTON/NBC)
Scenes from ''Southland,'' above, and ''Parks and Recreation,'' top. The two shows were ushered onto NBC's schedule by Ben Silverman, and both are returning for a second season. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUSTIN LUBIN/NBC) (pg.BU7) CHART: STAYING POWER: Many of the shows introduced under the direction of Ben Silverman, who took the top programmer position at NBC in 2007, have had brief on-air lives. (Sources: NBC
Nielsen
I.M.D.B.
 tv.com) (pg.BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (78%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%)

PERSON: BEN SILVERMAN (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



576 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''The timing was not that bad.''
 Kristin Halvorsen, finance minister of Norway. As investors the world over sold in a panic last fall, she authorized Norway's sovereign wealth fund to buy billions in stocks, and helped the country make sizable gains. 
 ''This financial crisis was caused in large part by significant gaps in the oversight of the markets.''
 Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner. The Obama administration on Wednesday sought new authority over the complex financial instruments, known as derivatives, that were a major cause of the financial crisis.
 ''I have guys coming in here saying, 'I don't want to look like a banker anymore.' ''
 Eric Goldstein, an owner of Jean Shop, a denim store in the meatpacking district of Manhattan. He is now dispensing advice on how to look like a ''creative professional.''
 ''We were shocked.''
 Ward Drennen, who runs the auto dealership his great-grandfather opened 101 years ago near Birmingham, Ala. Nearly 800 dealers selling various Chrysler brands were given notice Thursday that they would be cut off next month.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); NEW CAR DEALERS (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (55%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (50%) ALABAMA, USA (50%) NORWAY (92%); UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



577 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: Going Dutch

 BODY:
To me as a religious-studies professor and Lutheran minister, the most telling line in Russell Shorto's article (May 3) was, ''This system developed not after Karl Marx, but after Martin Luther and Francis of Assisi.'' The last time I taught in the Semester at Sea program, I found it necessary to interpret for our students the rich ''social capital'' that runs through the Northern European societies we were visiting. What they knew and had read in their guide books was that not many people are in church on Sunday morning, especially compared to the florid religiosity of the United States. So their working assumption was that Americans take religion seriously and Europeans don't. The new thought that amazed them was that the unchurched Europeans live in social democracies deeply saturated with historic Christian values, while the much-churched Americans celebrate a society characterized by a ruthless social Darwinism that the God of the Bible, Old and New Testament alike, denounces.
 DONALD HEINZ Gig Harbor, Wash. 
 In his paean to the comfortable social-welfare system of the Netherlands, Russell Shorto failed to mention a central fact: the Dutch are dying out. Their birth rate continues to undergo a cataclysmic collapse, recently around 1.7 children per woman over her lifetime, well below the replacement level of 2.1. The article stated that ''the pension system in the Netherlands covers 80 percent of workers,'' but an aging demographic will soon become incapable of supporting itself off an ever-dwindling supply of workers. Yet Geert Mak, a Dutch author, asserts that it is Americans who must worry, asking, ''What happens when [they] turn 65 or 70?''
 KEVIN JON WILLIAMS Wynnewood, Pa.
 As someone who believes strongly in universal health care, I was sorry to read the comment by Hans Hoogervorst, who developed the new Dutch health care system, that ''there is no doubt the U.S. has the best medical care in the world. . . . I'm sure the top 5 percent of hospitals there are better than the top 5 percent here.'' But with that exception, he claimed, the ''overall quality is the same in the two countries.''
 The top 5 percent of U.S. hospitals are the ones in the forefront of research, clinical trials and teaching; they are the ones on the cutting edge of new medical discoveries and developments, which then spread to the other 95 percent and to the rest of the world. Without the Massachusetts Generals, the Johns Hopkinses, the Mayo Clinics and the other great American academic centers, modern medicine would stagnate -- to the detriment of all mankind.
 It is not simply a matter of the wealthy getting better care than everyone else, as Hoogervorst implies. If we lose the excellence found in our top hospitals, the great strides we are making in medicine will become a slow crawl, if they don't grind to a halt altogether.
 I truly hope Hoogervorst is wrong about the top 5 percent. But if he's not, he provides a compelling reason for caution in moving forward with a national health care system.
 RUSSELL STEVEN KUSSMAN Los Angeles
 Russell Shorto offers a shrewd and appealing comparison of the Dutch and American welfare states. I share his admiration for the Dutch model, but readers of his article may be misled about the cost to Dutch taxpayers of paying for it. Shorto acknowledges that he pays a steep 52 percent tax on his Dutch income, but he quotes an American accountant as saying that when you add up U.S. federal and local income taxes and Social Security taxes, you get close to that 52 percent rate. No, you don't. For most of us, it isn't even close.
 According to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the top marginal tax rate in the Netherlands is 52 percent, but the top U.S. rate -- including federal, state and local income taxes -- is less than 43 percent. If we add the small payroll tax for Medicare, the top marginal tax rate for U.S. wage earners is below 46 percent.
 The kicker is that Dutch workers start to pay the top 52 percent tax rate when their earnings are less than a third higher than the average Dutch wage, or about $52,000 in 2007. In the U.S. tax system, workers do not enter the top tax bracket until their earnings exceed $350,000, more than eight and a half times the average U.S. wage. For a Dutch worker earning the average wage, the overall average tax rate on gross earnings is 44 percent. For a comparable U.S. worker, the average combined tax rate is just 30 percent.
 The Netherlands is a wonderful country. Its generous public-private system of social protection contributes importantly to the quality of Dutch life. All plausible estimates of the cost of that system show, however, that average Dutch citizens pay considerably higher taxes than U.S. citizens to support the system.
 GARY BURTLESS Senior Fellow, Economic Studies The Brookings Institution Washington
 Russell Shorto correctly observes that a homogeneous population is likely to support a broad social-welfare system. I have found, using a broad cross-section of countries, that income disparity and ethnic differences are associated with lower levels of welfare payments and social security, while religious differences appear to have no effect on the level of such transfers. Education and other ''goods,'' however, are provided generously in some parts of countries with diverse populations when people sort themselves into more homogeneous localities.
 The Netherlands is a good example of a country in which one would expect to find a broad social-welfare system given the characteristics of its population.
 THERESE A. MCCARTY Professor of Economics Union College Schenectady, N.Y .
 Russell Shorto lauds the Dutch social-housing system, which he suggests produces a ''freer'' society: one with less anxiety. But the freedom from anxiety isn't free. Fifty-four percent of all dwellings in Amsterdam are social housing. This exceeds the actual need for social housing by 76,000 dwellings. Yet there is a dearth of affordable housing for purchase. With most dwellings unavailable, the prices on the free market are falsely inflated. It's increasingly difficult for young people to get their foot on the property ladder. Thus, only 7 percent of middle-income families own their own homes. Americans know what that does to communities. Families have increasingly fled the city, creating ''ghettos of singleness.''
 Second, social housing has waiting lists of seven or eight years. People like Shorto's psychologist friend moved into social housing while they were students but continue to benefit.
 Third, this invites massive fraud. People profit illicitly by re-renting social housing on the gray market for six or seven times what they pay.
 The Amsterdam housing market is undynamic and closed and creates dependency. Instead of profiting from rising housing prices in the last decades, many Dutch (and especially poor immigrants) have remained in social housing. Rather than reducing anxiety, it is merely displaced. This could be viewed as the opposite of the American dream.
 DIEDERIK BOOMSMA JONATHAN PRICE Amsterdam
 Why wouldn't Americans consider a country and a society much closer to their own -- Australia? We, too, are a pioneering, multicultural country, completely devoid of blandness, peopled by individualists, with supermarkets open 18 hours a day, vibrant theater and music and, crucially, broadly well-functioning health and housing systems that are a judicious mix of public and private.
 Our (mostly) excellent health system, introduced in 1974, has the strong support of a vast majority of the Australian public. And I believe its architect, Prof. John Deeble of the Australian National University, is still active. I suggest that American policy makers could do worse than give him a call.
 PATRICIA AZARIAS Sydney, Australia

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (73%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (71%); CHILDREN (71%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (70%); WRITERS (70%); HEALTH CARE (67%); AGING TRENDS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



578 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Even if You Want to Save Cash, Don't Try This Stuff at Home

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY; Malia Wollan contributed reporting from San Francisco.

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Saving money never cost quite so much.
 When the toilet in Carol Taddei's master bathroom began to break down a few months ago, she decided it would be cheaper to buy a new one than pay for repairs. Ever frugal in this dismal economy, Ms. Taddei, a retired paralegal, then took her economizing a step further, figuring she could save even more by installing the new toilet herself. 
 Initially, things looked good with the flushing and the swishing. That is, until the ceiling collapsed in the room below the new (leaky) toilet. Rushing to get supplies for a repair, Ms. Taddei clipped a pole in her garage. It ripped the bumper off her car, and later, several shelves holding flower pots and garden tools collapsed over her head.
 ''It just kept getting worse,'' Ms. Taddei said, ruefully describing what came out to be a $3,000, three-day renovation at her suburban Minneapolis home, finished by a professional from Mr. Handyman, a home repair service that takes emergency calls. 
 With the sour economy has come a class of ambitious do-it-yourselfers who are tackling things that, before the days of rampant penny-pinching, might have been left to paid professionals. An unlucky few like Ms. Taddei have learned that being thrifty sometimes comes at a high price and can bring along with it a new scourge of the times: saver's remorse.
 ''Oh, tell me about it,'' Ms. Taddei said. ''Sometimes it's better just to bite the bullet.''
 Certain things are almost always true when times are tough, experts say, and they are not all bad. People drive less to save on gas, so there are fewer car crashes. People smoke less because cigarettes are expensive. Diets simplify and, sometimes as a result, become more healthful. Stress levels, on the other hand, tend to increase.
 And while there is no national database that tracks do-it-yourself home injuries in recessions, experts say that there does seem to be an increase in the kind of accidents and mishaps that come with spending more time at home, based mostly on anecdotal evidence. 
 ''We are seeing an increase in minor injuries, sprains and contusions,'' said Dr. Peter Lamelas, who operates four urgent care centers around Palm Beach County, Fla. 
 The centers are seeing an increase in patients in general, perhaps because urgent care centers are a less expensive alternative to hospital emergency rooms. Based on figures for this year so far, Dr. Lamelas is expecting to have 20,000 more visits from patients than last year. 
 ''We've been seeing a lot of musculoskeletal problems from people lifting heavy things, maybe moving or doing things they're not accustomed to,'' Dr. Lamelas said. ''A lot of back injuries, shoulder injuries. Lacerations all the time.'' 
 Ramon Estrada has saver's remorse, foodie style. Hoping to save on groceries and avoid costly restaurant meals about three months ago, he accepted almost two dozen steak and fish filets from someone who offered his family their uncooked party leftovers. Being a culinary student, Mr. Estrada jumped at the chance to spend an evening chopping and seasoning and grilling, then cooling and repackaging the bounty of free food for dinners and lunches during the week.
 The family ate some of the surf-and-turf on the spot. It tasted delicious, but about four hours later, ''I'm completely feeling horrible,'' said Mr. Estrada, 27. ''Cramping stomach, the most horrible thing ever.''
 Mr. Estrada's brother had to be rushed to the emergency room. Mr. Estrada became so dehydrated that he also had to see a doctor a few days later, at the cost of at least $400 for drugs and treatment and four days of missed work.
 ''We learned something,'' he said. ''Saving money wasn't worth all of that.'' 
 Hair stylists and auto mechanics are often among those called to the rescue when things go wrong for money-savers.
 ''One of my clients decided to bleach her hair all over instead of coming in to get a full head of highlights,'' said Sunny Brewer, a stylist in St. Clair, Mich. ''She put bleach on her scalp and pulled it through to the ends and left it on for an hour. She had hair down past the middle of her back and now she's sporting a chin-length bob because her hair broke off.''
 The client, somewhat mortified, did not want to be mentioned by name in this article. But she did allow Ms. Brewer to tell her story as a cautionary measure.
 ''We had to go in and do corrective color,'' Ms. Brewer continued. ''I charge by the hour, and I worked on her for four hours. So by the time it was over, she ended up spending close to $1,000 to have her hair corrected when it could have been $175.''
 Don Tommasone, the owner of Village Automotive, a car care center in a Chicago suburb, says he spends a lot of his time these days doing corrections, too.
 ''We open the hood and can tell the guy tried to do it himself with cheap parts,'' Mr. Tommasone said. ''We see at least one a day like that. At least. The No. 1 part replaced: the battery.''
 Sasha Bernstein is among those who decided to skip out on the salon. About six months ago, Ms. Bernstein, 26, decided she would save $60 a month by buying an at-home kit and waxing her own bikini line. All she can say is that it seemed like a good idea at the time.
 Often, though, the wounds are only to one's pride.
 Tony Contreras, who works at a nonprofit legal service clinic in San Francisco, saves money on his daughter's haircut by trimming it himself. His wife, Sierra Filucci, called the latest style ''a horribly uneven mess.''
 But both parents keep telling Lola, 4, how cute she looks, even though they said they cringe anytime people mention their daughter's creative hairdo.
 In suburban Baltimore, Lynne Sherman was the temporary fix when her husband's attempt to hang molding ended up puncturing a pipe, which sent water spouting into their daughter's bedroom. Ms. Sherman plugged the hole with her finger until a carpenter arrived.
 ''My husband said, 'I took woodworking and shop in high school, so when we're ready to do it, I'll do it,' '' Ms. Sherman, 50, said of the project gone awry, which cost $250 to fix, and about which her husband swore her to secrecy. ''You can't print what his reaction was, and I started that nervous laughter, 'Oh, God what do we do?' Now I have to say, we don't do things ourselves anymore.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carol Taddei ended up having to repair a downstairs bathroom ceiling that was damaged when she tried to replace a toilet above. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN GARVIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Don Tommasone, a mechanic, says customers have been doing their own repairs. One even tried making his own part, right. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER WYNN THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DO IT YOURSELF HOME IMPROVEMENT (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (85%); HOME ACCIDENTS (78%); HOME REMODELING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (72%); PARALEGALS (72%); HAND & POWER TOOLS (69%); CONTUSIONS (66%); URGENT CARE CENTERS (64%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (63%); SMOKING (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



579 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; ENCOUNTER; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 2086 words

HEADLINE: Rusty Cloutier Has Money to Spare

BYLINE: By JIM RENDON. 
Jim Rendon has written for SmartMoney and Key: The New York Times Real Estate Magazine.

 BODY:
Rusty Cloutier wants to lend money. If you live in Lafayette, La., you already know this. In large black letters hovering above a pile of bundled green bills, billboards all over town announce, ''We have $200 million to lend.'' 
 This winter, Cloutier, the 62-year-old chief executive of MidSouth Bank, took this message on the road, traveling to 14 of his bank's branches between Lafayette and Houston to talk to customers about the money he wants to lavish on the region's small businesses. This story is not the one that we've come to expect. We've been told that the economy is stalled because credit has dried up. But the truth is more complex. At big banks -- Citigroup, Bank of America, Wells Fargo -- lending may have slowed to a trickle, but at the other end of the financial system, there are 8,500 community banks, local institutions like MidSouth, and most are doing fine. They are encouraging businesses to borrow money -- to replace aging equipment, invest in new technology, make acquisitions -- and to get the economy moving again. 
 In the midst of the worst banking crisis since the Great Depression, community banks have generally fared well. That's because they typically shunned the lending practices that led to high default rates. They rarely participated in the securitization of loans, credit-default swaps and other overvalued financial products that put the global financial system in crisis. Instead, they stuck to the fundamentals. They considered the character and history of their borrowers. They required collateral. Without community banks, the current financial crisis would be a lot worse. And even though they operate in a different sphere from global financial giants like Citigroup, some economists now say that they may have a lot to teach our largest institutions.
 On a spring evening, Cloutier was standing in the lobby of MidSouth's headquarters, fielding questions about Wall Street greed and what the recession might mean for Lafayette. The 30 folding chairs set up between the teller windows and the loan officers' desks were nearly full, and another 30 people were standing. These days, many bank executives would fear such an open forum. But Mr. Rusty, as everyone calls him, knew he was among friends. He grew up an hour south of Lafayette. He has lived in the same four-bedroom house for 24 years. He drives a 2004 Chrysler Pacifica minivan that has a cracked windshield and has already clocked 117,000 miles. Those standing in the audience weren't his enemies; he was one of them.
 And Cloutier has clout of another kind too. Over the last two decades, he helped build MidSouth into a $935 million publicly traded bank with 35 branches. He was a director of the Atlanta Federal Reserve's New Orleans branch for six years, and he served, for a time, as the chairman of the Independent Community Bankers of America; he often testifies before Congress for the organization. Despite all the talk of the credit freeze, Cloutier was trying to convince his audience that now is a good time to borrow money. ''We are doing everything we can to gin up demand for loans,'' Cloutier told me earlier. ''But trying to make a loan today is like trying to feed my 7-month-old grandson green peas.''
 The problem has been finding borrowers. Lafayette's economy is strong -- unemployment is just 4 percent -- yet people are reluctant to borrow when they fear the recession will reach them eventually. And it may. With oil prices down (from about $150 a barrel last year to a little more than $50 now), work in the oil fields, which anchors the local economy, is starting to slow. Last January, 62 gas and oil rigs were operating in South Louisiana; in March of this year, there were just 29. At Crown Drilling, a small oil-and-natural-gas drilling company east of Lafayette, Andy Simon has laid off 30 percent of his staff and cut his and his partner's salaries in half. 
 Simon and his partner have received more than $9 million in financing from MidSouth Bank since they bought the company in 2003. Just a few months ago, he restructured his debt, decreasing the monthly payments. ''They would loan us more money right now if we wanted it,'' Simon said, standing outside his office beside an idle oil rig. ''But we're not thinking about borrowing any more right now. We're just trying to survive.''
 Cloutier appreciates Simon's conservatism. It's part of what makes him (and those like him) a good customer. Cloutier says he believes his job as a banker is to know who runs a business well and thus may survive a downturn. Community bankers are well equipped to make that kind of judgment because, as cliched as it sounds, they really do know their customers. ''If a guy owes you seven or eight million dollars, you better know everything there is to know about him,'' Cloutier told me. Cloutier knows scores of people just from coaching local basketball, baseball and football teams. Like most community banks, MidSouth sponsors a long list of organizations and causes; the shelves in Cloutier's office are lined with awards from civic organizations. And because community bankers often sit on the boards of nonprofits and local businesses, they know their local industries. Though MidSouth makes loans in the health care industry and to some retailers, the business it knows best is oil-field services. ''If you put me on the eastern slope of the Rocky Mountains in Colorado, where it's all cattle, I wouldn't have a clue,'' Cloutier says. Cloutier expects oil prices to bounce back. His goal is to help his customers get through this low point -- which is why he wants to extend a hand to Simon. 
 ''We've been through this before,'' Cloutier told the people assembled in the bank lobby, reminding his audience of the depressionlike conditions in the region following the collapse of oil prices in 1986. ''We'll see some adjustment down, but let me assure you of this: You will not see the 1980s again in Louisiana.'' 
 On that note, Cloutier continued to try to drum up a little business. ''How many of you have really sat down and thought, This is a great time for me to go out and borrow some money?'' Cloutier asked. ''Raise your hand.'' After an awkward pause, two hands went up. 
 Community banks may have weathered the current crisis better than larger banks, but they remain an American oddity. Most other countries have 5 or 10 national banks, and when they get in trouble, as they did in Iceland, it can be devastating. The balance in this country is tipped toward big institutions (the four largest control half the assets held by American banks and 40 percent of all deposits), but community banks still make 43 percent of all small business loans under $1 million. Since January 2008, fewer than 1 percent of all community banks have failed.
 Even during the subprime lending boom, most community banks, squeezed out of real estate by aggressive mortgage lenders, continued to make conservative loans to people and businesses they knew well. Unlike large banks, which sell their loans to investors, community banks keep a majority of their loans on their books, earning money from the interest -- a lucrative approach, given their small loan volumes. This has its drawbacks: community banks have less money to lend, because they must raise additional deposits in order to lend more money, which can be time-consuming and expensive. But holding on to their loans gives them every reason to dig deeper than credit scores and cash flow when making a loan. They also have more flexibility in structuring repayment if the economy sours. One California bank told all its customers they could skip December's loan payment: the debt would just be tacked onto the loan without any fees or penalties. 
 Big national banks can't do business that way. The largest banks make loans based on mathematical models. Most determine credit worthiness based on income and a credit ranking developed by FICO. Or they look at a business's cash flow and assets. This approach allows banks to process large volumes of loans inexpensively and to package and sell those loans to investors as securities. Firms that rate the securities need to know that the underlying loans meet some standardized criteria -- hence the reliance on formulas. Securitization itself is not bad. It has allowed banks to lend much more money than they could on their own. The problem is that the incentives are skewed. If a loan goes bad, the bank that originated it doesn't lose a dime. Investors far down the line pay the price. During the housing bubble, the big banks had every incentive to make as many loans as possible and few incentives to avoid making bad ones. 
 Indeed, Congress is rethinking securitization to bring the lending practices of large banks closer to those of community banks. Representative Barney Frank, chairman of the House Committee on Financial Services, says that banks should keep some percentage of the loans they make on their own books as an incentive to responsible lending. Last week, the House passed a bill Frank helped sponsor that requires lenders to keep on their books at least 5 percent of every mortgage loan they make.
 Most economists agree that we can't do without big banks entirely. Despite their relative health, community banks can be risky ventures. They prosper when their communities prosper, but they also can collapse when their communities collapse. In Georgia, 11 community banks have failed since January 2008. Most of them lent money to residential developers building speculative projects in Atlanta's outer suburbs. When the real estate market slowed and those developers defaulted on their loans, they took the banks down with them. Big national banks can better handle regional downturns and shocks like plummeting oil prices or a local real estate slump. The largest institutions provide huge loans and services like cash-flow management for international corporations, something community banks don't have the wherewithal to do. Still, some economists, including Simon Johnson, the former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund and a professor at M.I.T.'s Sloan School of Management, say our financial system would be healthier if we jettisoned massive banks, instead relying on a network of regional banks and community banks. If General Electric needs financing, Johnson says, it could issue bonds rather than tapping lines of credit from banks: ''Let's start having banks that are small enough to fail.'' 
 While the government is unlikely to take such a radical step, Frank's committee is drafting legislation to address the core issue that brought the banking system near collapse: the size and interconnectedness of the large financial institutions. It would create a systemic risk regulator -- an agency that would examine hedge funds, private equity firms and banks to determine which institutions are too big or too interconnected to fail. The largest and riskiest institutions would be forced to keep larger cash reserves. If the requirements are rigorous enough, banks might sell off assets to avoid increased scrutiny; or they might lose market share and shrink if the regulations made them less competitive, opening a door for community banks to grab a larger market share for themselves. ''I see a very bright future for community banks,'' Cloutier says. ''I only wish I was 32, not 62.''
 Cloutier says he wants to lend money, but he also wants to be paid back. Recently, he told me that a number of developers came to MidSouth looking for loans. Regions Bank, a $142 billion bank based in Alabama, had stopped financing their projects. But Cloutier turned them away. He has never offered loans to speculative real estate developers, and he's not going to start now. ''Bankers are here to help people,'' Cloutier says. ''Sometimes that means making a loan, and sometimes that means saying no.'' 
 The day after his talk in Lafayette, Cloutier climbed onto a golf cart with Brooks Bernard, the owner of Louisiana Safety Systems, a company that reconditions valves for oil production. Bernard was giving him a tour. Despite a recent slowdown in business, Bernard had been planning to move to a larger site, and MidSouth approved an $8 million loan for the expansion. But at the last minute, 14 acres next to his current operation came up for sale. He spent just $1 million to buy and improve the lot, much less than he'd planned. But it was, nonetheless, a bet on a brighter future -- and finally for Cloutier, a loan. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Community banks like MidSouth are ready (even eager) to give embattled small businesses a boost.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENT HUMPHREYS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); COMMUNITY BANKS (90%); BANK BRANCHES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); RECESSION (77%); BANK FAILURES (76%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (74%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); SECURITIZATION (68%); GREAT DEPRESSION (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); MIDSOUTH BANCORP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (83%); MSL (NYSE MKT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



580 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2895 words

HEADLINE: From Frisee to Finance, It Has to Be Perfect

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL

 BODY:
IN the middle of the kitchen at Daniel, a four-star restaurant on the Upper East Side, a set of steep stairs leads to a cozy little nook known as the skybox. It has one lacquered-wood table, room for four diners, a television and two large windows overlooking the action below. The space feels like the eating quarters of a yacht set in a tree house.
 The skybox is available to customers by special request, but on a recent afternoon, the chef and co-owner Daniel Boulud is sitting here in a white, double-breasted chef's coat, ready for the latest round of taste tests for a restaurant called DBGB. His first foray into casual fare and his 10th restaurant, it is slated to open on the Lower East Side in about two weeks.
 First up is a small dish of escargot and tomatoes topped with a puff pastry, which is set before him by Jim Leiken, 34, who will be in charge of DBGB's kitchen. 
 ''Did you hear the music?'' Mr. Boulud asks as he studies the plate and grabs some silverware.
 ''Yeah, it sizzled,'' Mr. Leiken replies.
 Mr. Boulud chews for a moment, and then there is silence.
 ''I'm still not convinced,'' he finally says, speaking with the sort of French accent that sounds authoritative in any discussion of flavor. ''I mean, I love escargot and garlic, and all that. But I'm still thinking of doing a custard on the bottom and then a puree of escargot and then the puff pastry so you have almost a reverse tart.''
 Known for his sumptuous menus and seamless service, Mr. Boulud -- the name, brain and palate behind one of the country's gold-plated dining empires -- has already taken a bow for just about every round of applause that the industry has to offer. With the Dinex Group, a management company he co-founded, he and a team of managers and accountants oversee an operation with more than 900 employees in markets as far-flung as Beijing and Vancouver. 
 They have not misfired yet, but Mr. Boulud and his cadre might be trying their trickiest maneuver to date, creating DBGB at a moment that is smiling on fast food and little else. In this environment, you could forgive the man for cutting a few corners, or scaling back his ambitions. 
 But during Round 8 of recipe tests, on Tuesday, he refuses to grade on the curve. He stoically appraises entrees and appetizers in what feels like a marathon episode of ''Top Chef'' -- except that this judge has helped conceive the dishes and never seems very pleased by the results.
 The lamb ribs confit with roasted lamb leg and spring beans? ''Maybe a little more herbs in it,'' he suggests. The Maryland lump crab cake with a curry sauce and pickled radish? ''More crab, less garnish.'' The passion fruit crepe with mango slices? ''We're still not there.''
 We sit across from Mr. Boulud, shamelessly pillaging the leftovers and thinking: huh? Each dish seems head-spinningly yummy, but Mr. Boulud summons enthusiasm only when he tries a sausage called the Vermonter, and he cracks a smile only after a forkful of beer-battered haddock beignets.
 ''I think it's good,'' he says, like a man enjoying a guilty pleasure.
 A SELF-DESCRIBED ''psycho'' when it comes to details, Mr. Boulud, 54, had planned a Paris-meets-Texas diner before anyone had heard of credit-default swaps. The concept evolved a little, but not the price point. Homemade sausages and hamburgers will be the centerpiece at DBGB, and the average bill for a three-course meal will come to about $32, the price of an appetizer at Daniel, his flagship.
 He brings to this enterprise something like home-field advantage, opening in the city that made him a culinary star. With that comes buzz; nearly every week, news about some element of the layout, design and construction of DBGB pops up on the most trafficked restaurant blogs in Manhattan.
 But by Dinex Group's own calculations, DBGB must generate $4.5 million a year in revenue to be profitable, not easy in a time that a spokesman for the National Restaurant Association called ''the most challenging the restaurant industry has seen in several decades.'' A consumer marketing firm, NPD, issued a report a few weeks back stating that national restaurant traffic had dropped for a second consecutive quarter.
 ''And there will be at least one more down quarter, maybe two,'' says Harry Balzer, an NPD vice president.
 In New York City, it's been ugly at nearly all price levels. 
 ''Does the word 'bloodbath' meaning anything to you?'' asks Clark Wolf, a Manhattan restaurant consultant. ''The fact is that if you built your restaurant business on all these Wall Street guys getting ridiculous bonuses selling stuff that turned out to be worth nothing, your business is in trouble.''
 More than a few well-regarded New York restaurants, like Fleur de Sel and Bar Q, have closed in recent months, and many others are gasping. Gone are the days of private-room parties for 30 people, at $80 a head, with a few $1,500 bottles of wine.
 Mr. Boulud isn't the first to try to extend a gourmet brand from the high end to the affordable. He is hardly the most daring of those brand-extending chefs, either; his dishes are contemporary spins on French food, which he translates for Americans using ingredients rarely used in France, like Meyer lemons and risotto.
 But nobody expects trailblazing invention from him, the sort associated with other French maestros. What distinguishes Mr. Boulud from his peers is that he emphasizes both hospitality and cooking.
 ''Daniel's gift is that he's actually interested in the people who are eating his food,'' Mr. Wolf says. ''It's about his customers instead of his ego.''
 IN late April, DBGB is a clamorous construction site near the corner of the Bowery and Houston Street on the ground floor of a new apartment building. You need to look under the plastic wrap that covers all the kitchen equipment to guess that a restaurant is being fabricated here. The dining room is a vast, concrete expanse. Men are drilling holes in the wall and ceiling, cutting sheets of metal, taking measurements. The leather banquettes are weeks from arrival, and there is still discussion about the design of the bar stools.
 ''It's always like this,'' says Dorothy Hom, who works for the company contracted to build DBGB. ''It doesn't look like a restaurant until right before you open the doors.''
 Despite the name, which nods to CBGB, the famous punk rock club a block to the north, the restaurant's design pays tribute to the area's history as the restaurant supply center of New York. The walls will be lined with shelves and stocked with glasses and plates as well as pots and pans donated by great chefs from around the world. The kitchen is on the other side of the shelves, giving diners a semi-obstructed view of the cooking.
 There is a weekly meeting here on Tuesday mornings, with Ms. Hom; Thomas Schlesser, the restaurant's designer; Brett Traussi, the Dinex Group's operations director; and Colin Alevras, DBGB's sommelier. An agenda for the meeting is handed out, though it's hard to hear anyone speaking over the din of saws and hammers.
 You can hear enough to grasp that creating a restaurant is an endless series of decisions -- the first few large (menu, location) and the next 7,000,000 tiny (where to hide an electrical cord). If there's a guiding principle, it's a preference for econo-class over luxury, without stinting on quality.
 ''This is a much smaller dishwasher than we'd like,'' says Mr. Traussi, during a tour of the unfinished kitchen. ''We also used a pot sink that was left over from the renovation of Daniel last year, and some old bar equipment, too.''
 Plenty of decisions about DBGB are made on site at these Tuesday-morning meetings, but just as many come from the offices of the Dinex Group. Situated on the fourth floor of a Midtown building near Bryant Park, it has the open-air layout and decor of a dot-com start-up.
 Many here are engaged in old-fashioned number-crunching -- and there are plenty of numbers to crunch. After DBGB opens, there will be five New York restaurants, all of which are owned outright by Mr. Boulud and his partners. With the other restaurants -- two in Vancouver, one each in Beijing, Palm Beach and Las Vegas -- the company has management contracts with a variety of terms.
 ''When we manage a restaurant, we start making money from the first day,'' Mr. Boulud explains. ''When we own a place, it's often five years before we earn the first penny that is clean of debt.''
 Each restaurant is assigned a bookkeeper to track payroll and food costs. Alarms ring whenever gross margins drop below 10 percent. The chefs in each restaurant, all of whom Mr. Boulud has trained, have wide latitude when it comes to spending on ingredients, but if margins sag, forensic accounting will ensue.
 ''A few years ago, at Cafe Boulud, we couldn't figure out why margins were so bad month after month,'' says Lili Lynton, one of Mr. Boulud's two partners. ''Even the chef was baffled. We looked at everything and we finally realized -- it was this reduction sauce, a really expensive reduction sauce, with truffles and mushrooms, which was in a bunch of dishes. Who would have thought? We figured it was the fish or the chicken or the meat. It was like a game of Clue, and the culprit was the gravy.''
 A LOVE for minutiae is apparently a job requirement in this company. Consider the ''mustard caddy,'' a relish tray for DBGB that has taken months to design and is still a work in progress.
 ''Here's the latest prototype,'' says Michael Lawrence, assistant director of operations, sitting in a Dinex conference room. He has just retrieved an unadorned, dark-stained box, about 6 inches square and 4 inches deep.
 ''This is based on a sketch that Daniel drew -- he's a pretty good draftsman -- and then we have a guy in upstate New York who will make them,'' he said.
 The idea was to build a snug little home for the collection of bottles, which will include two or three types of mustard, as well as ketchup, salt and vinegar. The box had to be durable, too.
 ''We were in here the other day slamming this box on the floor,'' Mr. Lawrence says. ''We also soaked it in water because these things are going to get wet.'' He looked at the box with a bit of pride. ''It warped a little but it stayed together.''
 Mr. Lawrence has also taken the lead in choosing background music for DBGB, which he's doing with Ear Networks, a company run out of the Hell's Kitchen apartment-home office of Robert Drake, a sound engineer. The two have been fine-tuning the playlist for weeks, choosing from 45,000 songs in Mr. Drake's library.
 A few days after the mustard-caddy discussion, Mr. Lawrence invited a reporter along for a visit to Ear Networks, where he and Mr. Drake would designate tracks as ''lunch,'' ''dinner'' or ''late night.'' Generally speaking, the quiet stuff is lunch music -- because nobody has been drinking -- with livelier songs at dinner, and becoming more boisterous as the night wears on.
 Mr. Drake clicked his mouse, and ''Cowgirl in the Sand'' by Neil Young blasted from the speakers.
 ''Late night or dinner?'' Mr. Lawrence asked, shouting over the song.
 ''You tell me,'' Mr. Drake said. ''I was going to put it for dinner.''
 ''Yeah, it's dinner, you're right.''
 In the end, DBGB will have a library of 4,000 songs and a sound system that can control the volume in different sections of the room.
 For restaurants, music is one way to influence who shows up, or at least who comes back. You can aim at a demographic group by playing music that was beloved by its members when they were about 15 years old -- the age when fandom typically leaves its most vivid tattoo. By that logic, DBGB is not exactly laying a welcome mat for the just-out-of-college set. There is little in the playlist that was recorded in the last 10 years.
 That is no accident.
 ''It's hard to get a liquor license around here, as you may know,'' Mr. Traussi says, ''and one of the things I heard when I canvassed people who live here is, 'You'll get kids in trucker hats and they're never going to eat food and you're going to turn into a bar before you know it.' I think that's an important concern. We're not looking for that kid, right out of school who is 22 or 23. I think music is an important way to run a food-centric restaurant rather than a bar-centric restaurant.''
 THE high-energy, persnickety style of the Dinex Group flows directly from the top. Mr. Boulud has a hard time ignoring the tiniest imperfections, and a harder time taking a day off. He describes the latter quality as a quirk that he really needs to work on. 
 Standing on East 65th Street near Park Avenue, on the sidewalk beside Daniel, he gestured to the apartment where he lives with his wife, Michelle. (The couple have a college-age daughter, Alix.) The apartment is almost directly above the dining room, a lifestyle choice that only a workaholic would make.
 ''I'm crazy,'' he says with a shrug, pointing to where he lives. He spins one hand as if it holds a screwdriver. ''I've got to fix myself.''
 A 5-foot-6ish guy with the good looks of an anchorman and the eyewear of an architect, Mr. Boulud is an affable glad-hander when he's working the front of the room, with an amazing ability to remember names and a warmth that can't be faked. In the kitchen, he is serious and intense. He's never been tantrum-prone like Gordon Ramsay, the British chef and reality-TV star, but he has said he's capable of a good 10-second outburst.
 He doesn't seem particularly comfortable talking about himself or the source of his exacting standards. What he will say is that he's been the same way since childhood, growing up on a 50-acre farm outside Lyon, France. He and his family raised chickens, goats and guinea fowl and grew vegetables and grains.
 The farm taught him the fine art of frugality, a skill not normally associated with artistes of the kitchen. Everything was either consumed or repurposed, he recalls. If there was soup left over from dinner, you threw in some vegetables and bread and fed it to the pigs.
 ''A lot of chefs don't have a natural sense of economy,'' he says. ''I was with one guy the other day and I had to show him how to peel a turnip, because the way he was peeling turnips, he was throwing half of it in the garbage. It's not about being cheap. It's about being proper.''
 Mr. Boulud ran his first restaurant in Denmark, in 1980, and was executive chef at Le Cirque in Manhattan from 1986 to 1993. When he decided to light out on his own, Ms. Lynton, a longtime friend of Mr. Boulud's wife and then a researcher at a Wall Street brokerage firm, offered to help put together a business plan and look for investors.
 At the time, she was married to a man with a very wealthy uncle named Joel Smilow, who in 1992 retired from a business career that included plenty of leveraged buyouts and a stint as the president and C.E.O. of Playtex.
 ''I call myself a retired brassiere salesman,'' says Mr. Smilow, now 76.
 Already an active philanthropist, he was looking at the time for new investments that met two criteria: the venture had to be profitable, and it had to be fun. Mr. Smilow decided that Mr. Boulud's venture would fit the bill if, and only if, he was the sole backer.
 ''I felt like if there were six investors, they wouldn't get along with each other and they'd make life hell for the guy they were backing,'' he explains. ''That happens more often than not when it comes to restaurants.''
 Mr. Smilow chipped in the roughly $2.5 million needed to open Daniel in its original location, on East 76th Street near Madison Avenue, the current home of Cafe Boulud, and he has bankrolled every subsequent opening or, in the case of DBGB, helped guarantee a bank loan. Naturally, Mr. Smilow gets the visiting-potentate treatment at all Boulud restaurants, not to mention bragging rights. 
 Years ago, Mr. Smilow attended a dinner party at a friend's house in Florida, and the guests included Preston Robert Tisch, then a co-owner of the New York Giants. After the meal, over a cup of coffee in the living room, the two compared investments.
 ''Bob was a friend of mine and I said: 'Bob, in a certain way, I think the same joy and pride you get by being co-owner of the Giants is what I have in my partnership with Daniel and the restaurants. The only difference is that every night we're in the Super Bowl. And every night we win.' ''
 NOT surprisingly, the Dinex Group has a very precise idea of how busy DBGB must be. It needs to fill each of its 140 dining seats twice on high-traffic nights (Thursday, Friday and Saturday) and 1.25 times on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. Anything in excess of those numbers -- say 2.25 seatings on a Saturday night -- is money in the bank. There are similar calculations for lunch.
 Seated in his skybox at Daniel on Tuesday, Mr. Boulud finished his nibble-a-thon with a thumbs-down for a crepe with a brownielike chocolate center. (''It needs to be muddier.'') Then he tried to sound upbeat about his chances for succeeding in the worst economic environment in generations. Mostly, though, he exuded the uneasiness of a man who is unwilling to take much comfort in the winning streak of his past. 
 ''It's indulgence on a dime instead of indulgence on a dollar,'' he said, summing up DBGB. Then he laughed and added, ''Let's hope we have it right.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Daniel Boulud is opening DBGB on the Lower East Side in New York, dipping a toe into more casual fare just as the city's high-end restaurants have been devastated by the recession. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.BU1)
 Even the layout of Daniel Boulud's newest venture, DBGB, on the Bowery, sets Manhattan restaurant blogs abuzz. Mr. Boulud, second from left in foreground, is trying to balance thrift and quality for this site, his 10th restaurant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.BU8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY THOMAS SCHLESSER DESIGN BUREAUX) (pg.BU8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); TEST MARKETING (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



581 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 528 words

PERSON: Susanna Agnelli 

HEADLINE: Susanna Agnelli, 87, Pioneer As Italian Foreign Minister

BYLINE: By RACHEL DONADIO

DATELINE: ROME 

 BODY:
Susanna Agnelli, a scion of the Fiat car dynasty, the only female foreign minister in Italian history and a formidable presence who brought American-style philanthropy to Italy, died Friday in Rome. She was 87. 
 She died at Rome's Gemelli Clinic from complications after a broken hip, said her daughter Priscilla Rattazzi Whittle of New York.
 Susanna, or ''Suni,'' as she was known, was the granddaughter of Giovanni Agnelli, who founded Fiat. Both the carmaker and the Agnelli family, Italy's answer to the Kennedys, came to epitomize Italian glamour and innovation during the economic boom that followed World War II. 
 Ms. Agnelli was a confidante of her dashing brother, Giovanni Agnelli, known as Gianni, who served as Fiat chairman for 30 years. 
 After his death in 2003, Ms. Agnelli successfully rallied her siblings to keep Fiat in the family.
 Now led by Gianni's grandson, the company recently acquired a stake in Chrysler. 
 A striking woman who let her hair go gray, spoke her mind and dressed smartly in pantsuits, Ms. Agnelli was the antithesis of the showy television celebrities who dominate Italian culture today. 
 Ms. Agnelli started a career in politics in the 1970s, when she became mayor of Monte Argentario, a village on the Tuscan coast where the family had a home. 
 She soon broadened her ambitions, serving as a member of Parliament from the center-left Republican Party and later as a member of the European Parliament. 
 In 1983 she was named undersecretary of state for foreign affairs, a post she held until the early 1990s. In 1995 and 1996 Ms. Agnelli served as foreign minister in the centrist government of Lamberto Dini. 
 ''She was the most efficient person that I ever met,'' Mario d'Urso, a family friend, said Saturday. ''She was able to obtain whatever she wanted, much more than Gianni.'' 
 Ms. Agnelli's son Lupo Rattazzi, reached Saturday, said affectionately, ''My mother was a pretty bossy character.'' 
 She was active in environmental causes, and she helped bring an American-style televised fund-raiser to Italy that still raises millions of dollars annually for medical research. 
 In her best-selling 1975 memoir, ''We Always Wore Sailor Suits,'' Ms. Agnelli recalled her childhood in Turin, where, under the tutelage of an English nanny, she and her six siblings were taught, ''Don't forget that you are an Agnelli.''
 Born April 24, 1922, Susanna Agnelli came of age during World War II. At 20, she left a convent school in London to work for the Red Cross, serving on ships carrying wounded soldiers. After the war, she married Count Urbano Rattazzi. The couple had six children. They divorced in 1971.
 In the early 1970s, when the Red Brigades were threatening industrialists in Italy, Ms. Agnelli lived for a time in New York. Sunday brunches at her home on Park Avenue became legendary, bringing together a wide range of notables including Senator Jacob K. Javits and Andy Warhol, according to Mr. d'Urso. 
 She kept a home in New York until her death. ''She loved New York,'' her daughter Priscilla recalled. 
 Ms. Agnelli is survived by her six children, as well as 14 grandchildren and 2 great-grandchildren. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Susanna Agnelli, known as Suni, in Argentina in 1980. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); WORLD WAR II (74%); MAYORS (74%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); CHILDREN (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (65%); ARMED FORCES (60%); BONE FRACTURES (57%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (50%)

COMPANY: FIAT SPA (92%); PIONEER AS (91%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (54%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (92%); F (BIT) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS331523 NONFERROUS METAL DIE-CASTING FOUNDRIES (91%); SIC3363 ALUMINUM DIE-CASTINGS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); TURIN, ITALY (73%) ITALY (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (Foreign)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



582 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1769 words

HEADLINE: Not a Dive After All

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
FOR $1,000 a month, most New Yorkers expect to rent little more than a tiny cramped space devoid of light and charm. 
 But recent graduates with budgets under $1,000 can easily find suitable apartments in Brooklyn or Queens, and real estate agents say that in the current market, $2,000 is even enough for a two-bedroom apartment in Manhattan south of 96th Street. 
 Hamilton Heights, in northern Manhattan, has three-bedrooms for $2,200. Two-bedrooms for $1,600 can be found in Astoria, Queens, and Sunset Park, Brooklyn. Two-bedrooms can also be rented in Park Slope for about $2,000.
 And these are all apartments with actual bedrooms for each renter -- not something that has been carved out of a living room. And in some cases, there are separate dining and living rooms, renovated kitchens and bathrooms, maybe even a washer-dryer. 
 Recession or not, thousands of 20-somethings will be arriving in the next few months with their diplomas and entry-level salaries in hand, looking for their first apartments. 
 The rental market's peak season, from May to September, is driven largely by these graduates and new hires. In 2007, more than 32,000 graduates ages 22 to 28 moved to the city, and their median salary was $39,655, according to the Census Bureau's American Community Survey.
 In the midst of the recession, real estate agents predict the number will be lower this year. 
 ''We don't expect to see a normal summer, where rents are driven up by people bidding up,'' said Marc Lewis, the president of Century 21 NY Metro. ''A lot of college kids are not finding jobs, and landlords are competing for a smaller pool.''
 Danni Tyson, an agent with Halstead Property, sees much the same picture. Recent graduates have already started to turn up, she said, ''but they're not coming with the kind of money they had last year, where Wall Street gave them $60,000 a year and $10,000 in moving fees.'' 
 But since those generous bonuses helped drive up apartment prices in past years, graduates with limited funds may actually benefit from the current weakness in the finance industry.
 ''It's a great time to be a renter,'' said Gary Malin, the president of Citi Habitats, which specializes in Manhattan rentals, but also has listings in Brooklyn and Queens. ''The vacancy rate is higher than it has been, and rents are down across the board.''
 In Manhattan, where the average rent for a studio is $1,774, many landlords are offering to pay brokers' fees. Some are also throwing in a month or two of free rent. Rents in some buildings have dropped by 20 percent from last year. But prices in Harlem, Brooklyn and Queens -- places where people priced out of many Manhattan neighborhoods have long gone for better value -- have not decreased as much, Mr. Malin said.
 The new arrivals can learn from the experiences of those who arrived a year or two ago, and have figured out how to navigate the rental market here, which can be bewildering to outsiders. 
 Cailin McDuff and her two roommates, Katie Nagrotsky and Jessica Bolen, decided to share a three-bedroom apartment in Hamilton Heights, a historic section of Harlem roughly between 132nd and 153rd Streets west of St. Nicholas Avenue. All three are public school teachers in their first year with Teach for America; each makes an annual salary of about $45,000.
 They split $2,195 in rent for three bedrooms and a living room large enough to have 20 of their closest friends over for a picnic dinner. Their apartment is a fifth-floor walk-up, but it has hardwood floors, exposed brick walls, an up-to-date kitchen with stainless-steel appliances, and what all three women refer to as their ''pride and joy'' -- a combination washer/dryer in the renovated bathroom.
 ''Being a first-year teacher and having a dishwasher and a washing machine is unheard of,'' said Ms. Nagrotsky, who teaches English at a middle school in East Tremont in the west Bronx.
 Ms. McDuff, who led the house hunt, teaches at a middle school near Yankee Stadium, and had already lived in Hamilton Heights for a year. So she knew the apartment was a good value the minute she saw it. But in 2007, when she moved to the city, she was taken in by online ads that claimed properties on 106th Street were really on the Upper East Side. 
 ''Initially I was unsure about Harlem, because you don't hear the best things about it as an outsider,'' said Ms. McDuff, a 24-year-old from North Carolina. But she has become one of the neighborhood's biggest boosters.
 ''I feel safer here than I would at York and 81st,'' she said, ''because there are so many people out here on the streets, even at 2 or 3 in the morning.'' 
 Her share of the rent is $750 a month. ''I have friends who are spending $1,000 to $1,100 a month to live in a shoe box farther downtown,'' she said, ''but I have an extra $300 a month to put away, and on a teacher's salary, that makes a difference.'' 
 The state of the market probably helped Roseanne Baker and her roommate, Miriam Goldberg, avoid a rent increase when they recently renewed their $2,200 lease for a two-bedroom two-bath apartment on the western edge of Park Slope, Brooklyn.
 Ms. Baker and Ms. Goldberg both teach in Brooklyn schools -- Ms. Baker in Red Hook and Ms. Goldberg in Crown Heights -- and they found their apartment through TeacherSpaceNY, a real estate agency that caters to teachers on tight house-hunting schedules and even tighter budgets. 
 Ms. Baker started her search last summer on Craigslist, but she said she shifted gears when ''we went to a place that was advertised as the Brooklyn Heights area, but it ended up being right near a housing project where an undercover cop came up to us and basically told us we could not take the place because there were drug dealers and prostitutes all around.''
 Their apartment is in a part of Park Slope that borders Gowanus and is partially industrial, ''but we're half a block to the subway,'' Ms. Baker said, ''and it's a safe area where we can go out and have fun and still be close to work.'' 
 For recent graduates and students who live in the boroughs, proximity to subways is usually a top priority. Marine Ravera and her brother, Loris, who are both college students, had hoped to live in Park Slope, but with a strict $2,000 budget, they found the area too pricey. 
 Their agent, John Wescott, who is associated with Corcoran, urged them to consider Sunset Park, where two-bedroom apartments in brownstone buildings rent for $1,500 to $1,700. Last summer, he helped them find a two-bedroom on 56th Street for $1,600, well under the amount that their father had agreed to pay.
 ''At first, I was wary of how far it is,'' said Ms. Ravera, who is 22 and graduates this month from the Laboratory Institute of Merchandising, a fashion business college in Manhattan. ''But I'm two blocks from the N train, and my friends on the Upper East Side take as long to get to Midtown Manhattan as I do.''
 Having dealt with a 15-minute walk to the subway from his apartment at 82nd Street and East End Avenue in Manhattan for two years, Eric Snider, a middle-school teacher, has decided to use a subway map to focus his search for a new apartment this summer.
 Mr. Snider, 23, teaches at a public middle school in the Bronx, but is transferring to a charter school in Bushwick, Brooklyn, in the fall, and hopes to move to Williamsburg, near either a J or L train stop. He recently started perusing ads and has seen listings that would keep rent for him and a roommate between $800 and $900 a month.
 ''I don't care where it is, as long as it's close to the train,'' Mr. Snider said. ''I can't deal with an hourlong commute anymore.'' The $800 a month he expects to spend is quite a savings from the $1,200 he pays for one of three bedrooms in his current place on the Upper East Side. 
 ''There's something to be said for living in Manhattan,'' he said, ''but it's really a lot of money and it's tough to make ends meet.'' Having visited friends in Brooklyn and the Bronx, he has concluded that ''there are a lot of great places that are much more affordable, and you can be close for getting to the places you want to go.''
 Many new arrivals in New York network a bit, depending on the old college ties for guidance.
 Maggie Hawryluk, a freelance publicist, graduated from Hofstra University last year. She decided to look in Astoria because she knew some Hofstra alumni who had settled there. She shares a $1,600 two-bedroom with another Hofstra graduate, a dancer who works as a waitress when she's not auditioning.
 ''I guess it's the same idea as immigrants -- they find ways to stay near one another,'' Ms. Hawryluk said. ''When I'm out on the weekends, I'm constantly running into people that I know from college, and it's nice to see a familiar face.''
 Gregory Fiasconaro, an owner of Dynasty Realty in Astoria, said that 20-somethings had transformed 30th Avenue in recent years. ''It became the place to eat and all the kids sit outside with their computers and work,'' he said. ''Astoria is the mecca right now. So help me, it's as good as New York, or better.''
 But for those who believe it's Manhattan or bust, brokers say that now might be the moment.
 Noel Genao, a real estate agent who recently graduated from Fordham University, has been helping fellow graduates with $1,000 budgets look for apartments in Manhattan. 
 ''A year ago, you would find listings in this price point and when you got there, it would be in the basement with no light,'' said Ms. Genao, who works as an assistant to Victoria Shtainer, a senior vice president at Prudential Douglas Elliman. ''But now you can find legitimate, nice apartments with true bedrooms, as opposed to closets played off to be actual rooms.''
 She has shown her friend Michael Robinson several two-bedrooms in Hell's Kitchen for $1,900. Mr. Robinson works as the front desk manager for the Equinox fitness club in Columbus Circle and is eager to move out of his apartment in Hamilton Heights to be closer to work.
 He pays only $700 a month to share a two-bedroom right now, but is willing to shell out more to live below 96th Street.
 ''I don't need a fancy building and I'll pay beyond my means for the location,'' he said. ''Because in Harlem, it's just a place for me to sleep; I socialize and work in Midtown.''
 Mr. Robinson, 24, has his fingers crossed that he'll be moving at the end of the summer.
 ''I can type in my search criteria now and see 50 listings in Manhattan,'' he said. ''I weed them down to maybe five real possibilities, but they are definitely there and two years ago, they weren't.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GOOD FORTUNE: Katie Nagrotsky, left, Cailin McDuff, center, and Jessica Bolen, all teachers, aren't exactly roughing it at their shared apartment in Hamilton Heights. O.K., so it's a fifth-floor walk-up, but each has a bedroom, and they share a monthly rent of $2,195, modern conveniences included. ''Being a first-year teacher and having a dishwasher and a washing machine is unheard of,'' Ms. Nagrotsky says.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MOVING MAN: Michael Robinson checks out an alleged bedroom in Manhattan. He is still looking.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
GOOD TIMING: Miriam Goldberg, left, and Roseanne Baker, both teachers, renewed their $2,200 lease without a peep about an increase. Marine Ravera and her brother, Loris, both students, found a place for $1,600, less than their father had budgeted.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES, BELOW)(pg. RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (72%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); CITY LIFE (65%); CENSUS (53%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



583 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Travel Magazine; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: The Accidental Hoteliers

BYLINE: By ALEX HAWGOOD

 BODY:
''Oh, man, all of us know all of our business,'' said Uretha Browne-Flanders, my cheerful, slightly rotund driver. I had just arrived in Nevis, the 36-square-mile island in the Caribbean, and was on my way to Golden Rock Inn. A centuries-old sugar mill that became a hotel in 1958, it is now undergoing a renovation by two unlikely new co-owners, the artists Brice and Helen Marden. ''That there is my friend's restaurant,'' Browne-Flanders said, pointing to a small beach shack on our right while simultaneously honking hello to a shirtless young boy on the left. ''That over there is my friend on his way to Oualie Beach.'' We breezed by a flash of sand hidden behind a boarded-up 16th-century church and a sun-bleached one-story house, and all I saw was a lonely sheep on the side of the road chewing some brown grass. ''Did you miss it?'' she asked with a knowing grin. ''Your eye isn't trained for Nevis yet!'' 
 Nevis is only two miles from its more developed sister island, St. Kitts, but it's a world apart. Most roads are broken. Everywhere are spindly coconut palms, many bald from a case of LY (lethal yellowing). Goats wander the streets aimlessly, playing chicken with oncoming traffic. The island's largest luxury resort, the Four Seasons, closed last October after being severely damaged by a hurricane, which meant some 600 residents lost their jobs and a sizable piece of the island's economy shut down. For a population of 11,000, that's been a difficult adjustment. It has also shifted the island's focus away from Evian-spritzed perfection and back toward its particular brand of authentic, untamed beauty. Which makes the Mardens' arrival as hoteliers especially interesting. 
 The appeal of Golden Rock for the two artists, known for their own kind of highbrow bohemianism, was obvious the moment I set foot on the property. Sitting inland at the base of Mount Nevis, the grounds -- full of mischievous birds, unpruned tropical flowers, the occasional bemused monkey -- looked as if one of Brice's squiggly, luminous paintings had erupted from the soil. The six bungalows (containing 11 rooms) are sprinkled haphazardly about and painted in contrasting shades of Mardenesque hues, a palette that mirrors the island's earthier tones and candy-colored houses. The centerpiece of the resort is a two-story tower that once processed sugar cane and is now a duplex suite. 
 Pam Barry, the soft-spoken American woman who is Golden Rock's grande dame and one-third owner, showed me around the place, pointing out a British cannon from 1675 that sits outside the kitchen and small patches of wild parsley -- quite possibly brought here by her great-great-great-great-grandfather when he bought the estate back in 1801 -- growing between the cracks of the stone pathways. Over lemon pancakes and guava jelly one morning, Pam and I sat gazing up at the bright shutters. ''Helen and Brice fit right in here,'' she said. ''Everything they have brought to Golden Rock has fit like a missing puzzle piece -- just look at that orange color.'' 
 When I spoke with the Mardens later about leaving their artistic stamp on the hotel, they were characteristically mellow about the whole undertaking. ''We were inspired by the blossoms from an African tulip tree,'' Brice said. Helen offered, ''Or was it our trip to Thailand where we saw that orange?'' 
 Their laid-back stance suits the upsy-daisy way they came to Golden Rock. For two decades, the couple and their two daughters had vacationed on St. Barts, but ''it's just turned into something else,'' Brice said. Seven years ago, a friend recommended they check out a different type of Fantasy Island -- one that doesn't measure the size of your yacht at customs but instead greets its visitors with a slap across the back. 
 Three years later, Helen had an epiphany over breakfast: she wanted to own Golden Rock. And by chance, Pam was open to a likeminded new steward and an influx of capital for the property. The rest ''was fate, I think, maybe ... oh, I don't know,'' Helen said, seemingly puzzled by how she came to own a hotel, particularly one where bats practice diving lessons in the pool and nocturnal wild donkeys creep around at midnight like teenagers in heat. ''People always ask us how many rooms Golden Rock has,'' Brice said, ''and we tell them we really don't know.'' Asked if they would ever consider opening another hotel somewhere, the couple responded with a resounding no. 
 In many ways, since the '70s, Golden Rock has been a locus for luminaries and creative types to decompress against a jungly backdrop. Guests like the Supreme Court justice Stephen Breyer and the poet Rene Ricard might swing in and out for snacks and drinks throughout the day, but you won't find Diddy or a Desperate Housewife here. The New Yorker writer and illustrator Bruce McCall came for dinner one night; an artist visiting from New York told me he had been going to Golden Rock for the past 22 years as ''a way to drop out.'' Helen said she visits about every six weeks; Brice pops by a little less often. (When he's there, he tends to hole up in his studio at the hotel's base.) ''I never call it a 'retreat' -- it sounds too structured,'' she said. ''It's a place for your mind to turn over.'' 
 When I visited recently, it was still a work in progress. The Mardens have hired the architect Ed Tuttle, known for his work at Aman Resorts, to build a stone outdoor dining room behind the existing dining hall. They also plan to add an open-air glass-roofed restaurant and plenty of other seating areas to soak up the sweeping views of the Atlantic Ocean. In a nod to the mill's origins, Tuttle has just finished a stone gazebo that resembles one of the upside-down copper pots that were used to refine sugar cane. The Miami-based landscape architect Raymond Jungles -- who was chosen specifically for his chaotic, au naturel style -- is designing a cascading water garden that will run throughout the space and be built in partnership with Golden Rock's staff. 
 The Mardens are careful about how their plans can help preserve the island and its slow-paced way of life while respectfully building up its infrastructure. ''We are not interested in overcultivation. We like things raw,'' Helen told me. ''We want it to feel the way it is -- with a small touch-up.'' 
 In the wake of the most recent hurricanes and the turbulent economy, these small touch-ups have become a driving force in island life. Without the big-resort jobs, many residents are going back to the land. A raw-food movement has sprung up, and traditional recipes like goat water stew (a bony soup that is not for the faint of heart) are being rebranded as national delicacies. Emmontine Thompson, a particularly spirited entrepreneur, has opened a roaming juice bar out of the back of her truck. Smoothies had never really caught on before her, I was told. But Thompson tosses together indigenous fruits and vegetables along with a whole lot of showmanship. At the outdoor farmer's market one day -- where a local reggaeton band played to scattered fans and everything from ginger-flavored pepper sauce to caged African vervet monkeys was on display -- I tried another island specialty: mango-infused chardonnay. It tasted a bit like fermented bubble tea. 
 Nevisians, much like the Mardens, seem content with a kind of leisurely and organic approach that builds on local traditions. If Nevis has learned to take it slow, its visitors must, too. But as an outsider, I had to wonder how long that could last, given the island's uncertain future. Over a lethal Killer Bee (rum with fruit juice and nutmeg) at Sunshine's, a watering hole steps from the surf on Pinney's Beach, I asked a young American woman who has been living in Nevis for the past year if she's worried about the fate of the island. ''Look, goats are everywhere here, but no one cares to make goat cheese,'' she told me. ''Things move very slow in Nevis. Heck, we don't even have a Burger King.'' 
 The waitress interrupted. ''If you want Burger King, go to St. Kitts,'' she said, gesturing to the horizon where a fiery sun was settling slowly down into the topaz Caribbean Sea.
 Golden Rock Inn, (869) 469-3346; www.golden-rock.com; doubles from $200. ALEX HAWGOOD

CORRECTION-DATE: May 31, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on May 17 about a resort on the Caribbean island of Nevis misstated the name of a volcano there. It is Nevis Peak, not Mount Nevis.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SUITE ESCAPE: Left: the sugar-mill tower at Golden Rock Inn. Below: the lava-stone pool. (pg.M2 30)
 ISLAND TIME: A king-side bed with a handmade mahogany frame at Golden Rock. Right: boats at Gallows Bay. (pg.M2 32) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LISA VOSPER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); HURRICANES (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); SUGAR MFG (76%); RESTAURANTS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT KITTS & NEVIS (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



584 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: A Long Road Back, but Not a Lonely One

BYLINE: By VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

 BODY:
With his wife's help, Terence Conley walked slowly toward a piano on a recent Thursday at the Jazz Foundation of America headquarters in Manhattan.
 ''Play something nice,'' Judith Conley told her husband as she eased him onto a piano stool.
 Mr. Conley, 51, steadied his fingers above the keys, smiled across the room in the direction of his three children and began playing ''Ruby, My Dear.'' 
 ''I'm glad he chose that tune,'' his wife whispered. ''It's one of the hardest to play in all of jazz.''
 For Mr. Conley, a former member of the Count Basie Orchestra, tackling those difficult chords was another small but important step in his recovery from a September accident that nearly killed him. 
 Several months before, he had taken a job as a driver for Federal Express to earn some extra money -- decent-paying jazz gigs had been disappearing even before the recession.
 ''Things were drying up,'' Mr. Conley said softly. ''I needed to feed my family.'' 
 On Sept. 29, the day before he was to interview for a job teaching piano at Lincoln Center, Mr. Conley was driving his FedEx truck in Midtown Manhattan when he crashed into the back of a bus that he says had stopped abruptly. He sustained major head injuries and was deliberately put into a coma for more than a month by doctors at Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan who were trying to reduce swelling and stop the bleeding on his brain.
 ''We didn't know if or when he was going to wake up,'' Mrs. Conley said. ''Either way, doctors were saying that he would eventually be sent to a nursing home.''
 Then one day at Bellevue, in mid-October, Mrs. Conley leaned over to kiss her husband. 
 ''I'm so sad that this happened to you,'' she told him.
 Though her husband could not speak, his answer came in the form of a teardrop that rolled down his cheek. 
 ''He pointed to that teardrop as if to say 'I'm sorry, too,' '' Mrs. Conley recalled through tears of her own. ''I knew right then that he understood everything I was saying, and that he would continue to fight to get better.''
 Mrs. Conley, who met her husband at the Berklee College of Music in Boston (where they became friends with a rising saxophonist named Branford Marsalis), insisted her husband be sent to Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan, and not a nursing home, so he could receive therapy.
 Her request was granted, and in the ensuing months, Mr. Conley began making remarkable strides. 
 ''He came in here at just about point zero,'' Dr. Brian D. Greenwald, a physiatrist at Mount Sinai who specializes in brain injury rehabilitation, said of Mr. Conley. ''It's incredible to see how much progress he has made.'' 
 Mr. Conley left the hospital on Jan. 13 and went home to the small apartment in Prospect-Lefferts Gardens, Brooklyn, that he shares with his wife and children: Brandon, 16, Joralyssa, 11, and Christopher, 7. A few weeks later, he began feeling well enough to sit and play at his own piano.
 ''Other than my wife and children, I missed my piano the most,'' Mr. Conley said. ''I look forward to the day when I can get back on stage again.''
 The Jazz Foundation of America, which has helped the Conleys pay roughly $9,000 in rent and other bills through a fund provided by the philanthropist Agnes Varis, staged a welcome-back party for him on April 19 at St. Peter's Church in Midtown.The event brought together many of the musicians that Mr. Conley had performed with at the Blue Note and Birdland and other jazz clubs in New York in the past 20 years, including the pianist Barry Harris and Mr. Marsalis.
 ''Terence was always a beautiful guy and a talented musician,'' Mr. Marsalis said. ''When you go to a conservatory, you're surrounded more by competitors than friends, but Terence and Judith were among the few real friends that I had back then.'' 
 On that recent Thursday, the Conley family had gone to the Jazz Foundation headquarters to meet Wendy Oxenhorn, the group's executive director. She has offered Mr. Conley the opportunity to begin performing again at nursing homes around the city as a dignified way of helping him pay his bills.
 After their meeting, Mr. Conley went downstairs to the foundation's tiny performance hall, where he found musicians preparing for the organization's next fund-raiser: ''A Great Night in Harlem,'' at the Apollo Theater.The piano was unoccupied, and Mr. Conley seized the moment. When he was done playing his last tune -- ''It Could Happen to You'' -- he walked off the stage and was greeted by another legendary saxophonist, Max Lucas, 99, who has performed with the likes of Louis Armstrong, Etta James, Muddy Waters, Dinah Washington and Thelonious Monk.
 ''He's a fine young piano player,'' Mr. Lucas said shortly after hugging Mr. Conley. ''The jazz world needs him back.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Terence Conley at the Jazz Foundation with his wife, Judith, and children, Christopher, Joralyssa and Brandon, says, ''I look forward to the day when I can get back on stage again.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY EARL WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (91%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (87%); MUSIC (78%); CHILDREN (77%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (73%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); HEAD INJURIES (69%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (68%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



585 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; FREDERICKTOWN JOURNAL; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Getting There From Here, Is It Better by the Ferry?

BYLINE: By SEAN D. HAMILL

DATELINE: FREDERICKTOWN, Pa. 

 BODY:
For more than 200 years, ferrying people across the Monongahela River here has been a necessity.
 The river is only about 400 feet across, but after coal was discovered in the hills above the circuitous river valley 40 miles south of Pittsburgh, as many as a half-dozen private ferry boat companies met the demand brought on by the mines and the steel mills that followed them.
 But now, a long-awaited highway and its bridge, meant to help bring the ''Mon'' Valley out of the economic doldrums, may end up docking the last remaining ferry boat, to the consternation of loyal passengers. 
 ''I won't take the bridge, even if it would have saved me a few minutes,'' said Janet Broadwater, 62, who recently drove her car onto the Fredericktown Ferry as she does two or three times a week for errands, this time to pay her water bill. ''I'd love to see it continue. It's just been such a big part of my life.''
 Rather than miners or mill workers, most of the passengers now are employees and contractors at the four-year-old state prison on the east side of the river in Fayette County.
 ''People still need us,'' said Larry Rutherford, the senior pilot on Fred, as this last ferry is affectionately known. ''That's why we're still here.'' 
 As with so many government services in these tough times, money is at the root of the debate over whether to keep the ferry going.
 ''It's a quaint little artifact that we have in Washington County, and we're proud of it,'' said J. Bracken Burns, a commissioner for Washington County, which, along with neighboring Fayette County, has run and subsidized the operation for 20 years. ''But how much can you spend on quaintness?''
 In 2008, each county spent about $36,500 to keep the 61-year-old, steel-hulled, cable-driven ferry running.
 Over the years, as the ferry outlasted all the others, progress was slowly making its way into the valley in the form of a toll road, the Mon-Fayette Expressway.
 Originally planned 40 years ago as a way to help the coal and steel industries get their products out of the valley quicker, now, with the mines and plants largely shuttered, the expressway is seen as a way to reconnect the struggling region with the healthy urban cores in Pittsburgh and Morgantown, W.Va.
 A section of the Mon-Fayette now being built will include a $95 million bridge spanning the Monongahela River just four miles upriver. It is projected to open by 2012, shortening a one-way trip by bridge from Fredericktown to the prison by four miles. The nearest bridge downriver will still be 14 miles away. 
 ''When I heard the bridge was going to be constructed, it suddenly struck me that we may not need the ferry anymore,'' Mr. Burns said.
 He said he started wondering about the ferry's future in December, when the counties formally accepted a $970,000 federal grant to pay for most of a renovation or replacement for Fred.
 The boat breaks down from time to time and can only hold about six modern vehicles, which are typically wider and longer than cars were in 1948 when it was supposed to be able to hold eight. The plan is to either widen Fred or replace it with a bigger boat.
 ''People say, 'Well, the money has been obligated, why not spend it?' But I'm not cavalier about spending money,'' said Mr. Burns, a Democrat. ''We might be spending $1 million to overhaul an operation that might have a life expectancy of three years.'' 
 Moreover, he worries that if passenger receipts -- a one-way trip for a car is $2 -- fall when the new bridge opens, the counties could end up having to increase their subsidies.
 For most of Fred's loyal passengers, the familiar red-and-white steel shell has become as much a part of the valley as the river itself. For a region that has seen mines and factories shut and residents and stores leave in their wake over the last 40 years, Fred has become a cause to hold onto.
 ''It's the big conversation here all the time now,'' said Cheryl Ann Boone, a bartender at Bower Brothers Lounge, a restaurant that sits near the entrance to the ferry in Fredericktown. ''It'd be terrible to shut it down. It's a landmark here, and we've lost so much already over the years.''

CORRECTION-DATE: May 27, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Fredericktown Journal article on May 17, about the possible ending of ferry service across the Monongahela River because of a new bridge, referred incorrectly to its location. The bridge is four miles downriver from the ferry, not upriver. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Passengers on the Fredericktown Ferry, known affectionately as Fred, before crossing the Monongahela River in Pennsylvania. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: A bridge will open four miles upriver from Fredericktown. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (91%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (71%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (93%); MORGANTOWN, WV, USA (58%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



586 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1949 words

HEADLINE: Foreclosures Rise, With No End in Sight

BYLINE: By DERRICK HENRY and JANET ROBERTS

DATELINE: ROOSEVELT 

 BODY:
 ON a recent weekday morning, Olive M. Thompson sat in the living room of her small, four-bedroom Cape-style home here, surrounded by cardboard boxes packed with her family's belongings. She was waiting for the sheriff that the bank's lawyers had promised would soon come. 
 It was nearly six years ago that Ms. Thompson, her husband and their children moved from East New York to the home they purchased for $215,000 here on Cumberland Avenue. 
 ''I was excited, coming from a two-bedroom apartment with four children,'' said Ms. Thompson, 45, who is a nursing assistant at a hospital in Bethpage and who put $28,000 down on the house and took out a subprime loan. ''This was a dream.'' 
 In early 2005, the payments on Ms. Thompson's adjustable-rate mortgage increased to $2,200 a month from $1,650, and the refinancing to a fixed-rate mortgage that she said the bank assured her would materialize did not. Then, later that same year, her monthly payment jumped to $3,000. Meanwhile, she said, she lost her job and the bills started to pile up. Her troubles were exacerbated the following year by a $10,000 adjustable-rate loan that she took against the house for a much-needed repair. 
 ''It was the fine print,'' said Ms. Thompson, who declared Chapter 13 bankruptcy that year. ''I didn't read it.'' 
 When her husband moved out in 2007, and she and the children remained in the house, Ms. Thompson said, it became even more difficult to pay the bills, and the foreclosure process began. A self-described fighter, she tried to hold onto the house, taking multiple jobs to meet a repayment plan and draining her 401(k). On Jan. 20, Inauguration Day, the bank took the house back.
 At least five other homes have been in foreclosure since 2005 on Cumberland Avenue, a street of two blocks here in Roosevelt, which is the epicenter of the foreclosure crisis on Long Island, according to a detailed analysis by The New York Times of more than 182,000 homes in foreclosure across the region. The analysis shows that at least 19 percent of residential properties have been in some stage of foreclosure in Roosevelt, population 15,930, since 2005, the highest rate of foreclosure on the Island. 
 Over all, Long Island's foreclosure rate is 3.7 percent, with at least 31,000 homes in some stage of foreclosure from 2005 through August 2008, according to the data, from The Long Island Real Estate Report. That is slightly higher than the 3.3 percent rate for the region, covering New York City, western Connecticut, Long Island and New Jersey.
 What worries housing counselors and policymakers is that Long Island's housing problems appear to be worsening. Recent bank data on mortgage delinquencies show that at least 6 percent of mortgages held by Long Island homeowners were 90 days or more past due, compared with 3.5 percent during the same period last year. 
 In the 44 months of foreclosure studied by The Times, nine Long Island communities had more than 10 percent of homes in foreclosure. All but two of them -- Islandia and Mastic Beach -- had a mostly minority population at the time of the 2000 census. The communities cut a swath from Freeport, Roosevelt, Uniondale and Hempstead in Nassau County to Wyandanch in Suffolk County, then east to Brentwood, Central Islip, Islandia and Mastic Beach. 
 As has occurred elsewhere in the region, foreclosure has hit black and Hispanic areas hardest. In Long Island's mostly black and Hispanic census tracts, more than 13 percent of homes were in foreclosure at some point since 2005 -- more than four times the rate for white tracts, raising questions among housing advocates about ''reverse redlining'' and concerns about the long-term impact of the foreclosure crisis on neighborhoods and the loss of wealth. 
 Nationally, a report issued Tuesday by the Pew Hispanic Center said that gains made in homeownership over the past decade by African-Americans and native-born Latinos were tied disproportionately to relaxed lending standards and subprime loans and that the gains had eroded faster in the downturn than those of whites.
 Suffolk County had more homes in foreclosure between January 2005 and August 2008 -- more than 19,000 -- than any other county in the region. Suffolk also had the steepest increase in foreclosure filings over that time. With 4.3 percent of residential properties in foreclosure at some point over the 44 months, Suffolk had the sixth-highest foreclosure rate, behind New Jersey's Essex and Union Counties and the Bronx, Queens and Brooklyn.
 In 2005, Suffolk's hardest-hit areas were limited to a few pockets -- Central Islip, Brentwood, Islandia, Wyandanch and an area straddling the Farmingdale-Amityville line -- where between 2 percent and 4 percent of residential properties were in foreclosure.
 Almost four years later, huge swaths of Suffolk were experiencing defaults -- mostly the blue-collar communities of Mastic, Shirley and Ridge west to Ronkonkoma and Centereach. The rates more than tripled in the pocket around Brentwood and Central Islip, and the problem spread south into Bay Shore.
 The number of new foreclosure actions declined markedly on Long Island beginning last September because of a law the State Legislature had enacted a month earlier, said Pat Ammirati, president of The Long Island Real Estate Report. It requires lenders to try for 90 days to work out settlements with borrowers before proceeding with foreclosures. 
 Mr. Ammirati saw foreclosure filings drop by almost 70 percent across Long Island the month the law took effect. But as that first 90-day window expired, filings began a steep ascent, and as of March, they had returned to the level they had reached before the law took effect. More than 4,700 foreclosure actions have been filed on Long Island since January, Mr. Ammirati reports.
 The foreclosure rate in Nassau County -- 3.1 percent of all residential properties in foreclosure during the 44 months studied by The Times -- was slightly lower than the regional rate, and the county's wealthier communities to the north had among the lowest rates on Long Island. But the concentrations of foreclosures around Elmont, Hempstead, Roosevelt and Freeport are among the region's densest.
 In Hempstead, Celia Camacho, a counselor with the Nassau County Homeownership Center, recently gave a tour of neighborhoods battered by foreclosure. As she drove, she pointed out the car window at photographs, toys, unopened mail and other artifacts that littered some front lawns along Searing Street, Florence Avenue and Blempton Place. ''We're trying to prepare people so they don't end up like this,'' she said. 
 The challenge, she said, is to identify cases in which the mortgage and therefore the home can be saved. But, Ms. Camacho said, even the most tireless housing advocate cannot help everyone. 
 The Obama administration's two-month-old plan to help millions of troubled homeowners avoid foreclosures by reducing their mortgage payments has moved slowly. The number of mortgage modifications has so far been in the thousands.
 Housing counselors said countless homeowners were in financial trouble from the beginning, taking adjustable-rate loans they mistakenly believed could be refinanced at a lower fixed rate. 
 There are people who bought homes with subprime mortgages at high interest costs. There are people whose homes are now worth significantly less than the mortgage. Others used their homes to finance businesses or other expenses, only to find now that they cannot manage the monthly payment. Then there are those who were sold mortgages by brokers without fully understanding that the payments would escalate beyond their ability to pay. Still others have been swept into foreclosure by job loss, divorce or disability. 
 Foreclosure can take many months, and the foreclosure data analyzed by The Times represent the first step, when lenders file public notice of foreclosure with the property deed. Not every foreclosure action ends with a lost home. Homeowners often find ways to refinance mortgages, adjust loan terms or reach other settlements that enable them to stay in their homes. 
 In a worst-case situation, homes are taken over by the banks and sometimes sold at auction to settle the debt. Data from The Long Island Real Estate Report suggest that fewer than 1 in 10 foreclosed properties on Long Island end up on the auction block.
 The Hamptons have not been immune to foreclosure, with about 490 properties in foreclosure there from January 2005 through August 2008. But the rate -- 1.3 percent of all residential properties -- was among the lowest in the region. Since September 2008, lenders have filed more than 260 foreclosure actions on the East End, about 20 percent fewer than in the first eight months of 2008, according to The Long Island Real Estate Report. 
 ''We've historically seen almost no foreclosures,'' said Catherine M. Casey, associate director of the Office of Housing and Community Development for the Town of East Hampton. Still, she said she had recently seen weaknesses in homes from $850,000 to $3 million.
 Roy J. Lester, a Garden City lawyer who handles foreclosure defense cases, said that while it might appear noble to go down fighting to save a house, people should make sure it is worth saving. 
 ''Houses are an emotional thing,'' Mr. Lester said, adding that many people do not realize they overextended themselves financially. ''You'll have people who have no business in trying to save their house and they'll be coming in here. It's an irrational decision.''
 Bank data from First American CoreLogic on delinquent mortgage payments show that 7.3 percent of borrowers in Suffolk were at least 90 days behind on payments in March, higher than Nassau's rate of 5.4 percent. The rates a year earlier were 3.8 percent in Suffolk and 3.1 percent in Nassau. 
 While significantly lower than some of the nation's worst spots for foreclosure, like Osceola, Lee and St. Lucie Counties in Florida, where more than one in five mortgages are at least 90 days past due, Long Island's delinquency rate is among the highest in New York, the data show. Suffolk's March rate was tied for second highest with the Bronx, only slightly lower than the rate in Sullivan County. In the region, four New Jersey counties had higher delinquency rates, the highest being Essex County's rate of 11 percent.
 Few counties have had steeper climbs in delinquency rates over the past two years than Suffolk and Nassau, where the rate more than doubled from March 2007 to March 2008 and soared another 75 percent the following year, according to data from First American CoreLogic. The company estimates its delinquency data represent 85 percent of mortgages nationwide. Lenders are continuing to report first-quarter figures, and the company estimates its March figures are 80 percent complete.
 Ms. Thompson, who remained in the house on Cumberland Avenue as a so-called squatter at the urging of housing advocates after the bank took it over in January, said she hoped her loan would be reinstated at a fixed rate. Her adjustable rate was at 10.46 percent, she said. 
 Last week, she pointed to boxes marked ''kitchen'' piled on a love seat. She said the bank had recently told her that it would reinstate her loan if she could come up with $28,000 as catch-up money. With her retirement savings drained, she does not know where that money could come from now.
 ''I'm packing my stuff,'' Ms. Thompson said, in case she is evicted. Meanwhile, she has broken off contact with her husband since he left to live with his mother in the Bronx. ''It's horrible to know that right now I don't know where I'm going.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SIGN OF THE TIMES: Long Island's foreclosure rate during a 44-month period has been higher than the region's. This house is in Hempstead, one of Nassau's hardest-hit areas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.LI1)
PACKING: Olive Thompson, whose home in Roosevelt is in foreclosure. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRK CONDYLES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.LI6) CHARTS: FORECLOSING THE FUTURE: Driven by high-cost subprime borrowing, default is spreading across the metropolitan area. Once-blighted neighborhoods that had been gentrifying with the free flow of mortgage dollars are now suffering an epidemic of default, and thousands stand to lose their savings and their homes.
FALLING BEHIND: The number of mortgages in delinquency has shown a steady increase through this year, and heralds the potential for an even further spread of foreclosure. (Sources: First American CoreLogic
Property Shark (www.propertyshark.com)
Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy
Long Island Real Estate Report
The Warren Group
American Foreclosures
Western Technologies Group
Westchester County clerk)(CHART BY FORD FESSENDEN AND JANET ROBERTS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 IN DEFAULT: Long Island's black and Hispanic neighborhoods have been hard hit by foreclosure. Hempstead, Roosevelt and Freeport are among the leaders in default filings by lenders. (Source: Long Island Real Estate Report) (pg.LI6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); US CHAPTER 13 BANKRUPTCY (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); NURSES & NURSING (69%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%); DISMISSALS (66%); ISLANDS & REEFS (60%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (52%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (52%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



587 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; HER TALES OF THE CITY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Double Take in the Dairy Aisle

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MASCIA. 
Jennifer Mascia's memoir, ''Never Tell Our Business to Strangers,'' will be published next spring by Villard.

 BODY:
IT was something I never expected to see in all my years living in East Harlem. But as I performed my monthly stroll down the dairy aisle of my local supermarket, there it was, next to the butter, the ricotta and the Parmesan: 
 Goat cheese. 
It was official. My neighborhood had been gentrified.
 The Associated Supermarket on Second Avenue near 101st Street has always carried queso blanco, cheddar and feta, but it stopped short of offering my favorite delicacy, which I crumbled in salads or warmed in the toaster oven and served with tortilla chips. To procure it, I always had to trek south of 96th Street, that infamous divide between Spanish Harlem and the Upper East Side.
 But, suddenly, there it was, having migrated north to meet me, its creamy Franco-funkiness a symbol of wealthier neighborhoods, a luxury rarely seen in a low-income area most of whose residents have just enough to cover the necessities.
 As I stared in disbelief at the little logs of chevre, I realized that the gradual transformation of the supermarket from a cramped, linoleum-lined box whose offerings included rotting fruit to a sleek bazaar of fresh mangos, organic soy milk and half a dozen flavors of applesauce had also served as a barometer of the neighborhood's transformation.
 I pondered what this meant. The part of East Harlem where I live can't claim the exoticism of the more Latino section north of 116th Street or the chic pedigree of the area to the south embraced by the ZIP code 10028. As a result, the area is often overlooked, regarded as a sort of no man's land populated by Hispanics and African-Americans, and, more recently, Afghans and Yemenis, who run many of the businesses along Second Avenue.
 The median income is $22,232, compared with $75,472 just a few blocks south, creating what has been called the nation's starkest disparity of wealth within the smallest possible geographic area. 
 When I arrived eight years ago, I was one of so few people with white faces who lived north of 96th Street that the neighborhood boys even gave me a nickname. ''Blankita,'' they'd call approvingly as I swept past them. ''Snowflake,'' they'd murmur under their breath.
 My friends marveled at my lack of fearlessness when it came to walking through the projects sandwiched between Second and Third Avenues, even at 4 a.m. ''Aren't you scared?'' they'd ask with a look of mild alarm. ''You live in the ghetto!''
 ''It's not the ghetto,'' I'd snap. But the truth is that I used to think of it as the ghetto, too, when I'd stare at the shelves at Associated, frustrated at the absence of Baker's Unsweetened Chocolate Squares (which I needed to make Maida Heatter's famous all-American brownies) or half-and-half, or my precious goat cheese. 
 I'd curse the lack of skim milk, the rusted lettuce, the fact that cosmetic items were locked in a plastic case at the front of the store, forcing customers to seek out the store manager for ''luxuries'' like shaving cream and toothpaste. 
 I didn't belong in this world, and I was coping with it alone. Though I had moved into my apartment with my boyfriend, I found myself alone five months later when the relationship fell apart. Just after that, my father died of lung cancer, and four months after that was Sept. 11. Seemingly overnight, my dreary stretch of Second Avenue had morphed into a corridor of despair. I felt destined to die one of those cliched New York deaths, where no one notices you're gone until the smell wafts down the hall.
 Then something changed. I learned to embrace the quirks unique to my neighborhood. I discovered that my roof is a great place to sunbathe, even though I ended up smelling like fried chicken, thanks to the JFK Fried Chicken on the ground floor that piped its greasy aromas onto the roof. (JFK is the low-budget Kennedy Fried Chicken, itself an homage to KFC -- a knockoff within a knockoff.) 
 I became good friends with Sammy, the Yemeni who runs the corner deli. When my mother died, he looked genuinely crestfallen. When his mother died, during Ramadan, I kept him company every night while he broke the fast. 
 When I took up running, the same guys who had called me blankita would nod approvingly as I blazed a trail through East Harlem. Gradually, I began spotting other blankitas jogging along the avenue, and I found myself sneering at them for gentrifying my neighborhood. Their very presence meant that things would change, and they did. 
 FIRST, a luxury apartment building replaced the decrepit lot at the end of my block, offering studio apartments opposite the projects on First Avenue near 102nd Street for $1,750 a month. Then the twin Section 8 apartment buildings directly behind me were emptied and demolished. Then a new elementary school blossomed behind the scaffolding across the street. 
 Not long ago, they began tearing down the industrial gray buildings that flank the 24-hour White Castle on First Avenue and replacing them with yet another luxury apartment house. 
 ''Another one?'' I thought to myself when I first heard of the plans. ''But they just finished the one on 104th!'' That would be the ''eco-friendly'' Observatory Place condos at 104th Street and First Avenue, advertised as ''East Harlem's first green building.'' 
 To be honest, I'm not sure in this economy who will pay a million dollars to live there. Nevertheless, construction surrounds me on all sides, wresting mice, rats and cockroaches from their underground slumber. When the concrete has been poured and the sidewalks mended, my neighborhood will be redefined once again by its newcomers. 
 Though I was once that newcomer, East Harlem finally feels like home. These days, I can't fall asleep without the sound of delivery trucks pounding down Second Avenue. I don't even mind the sound of gospel music from the storefront Pentecostal church that pulls me awake on Sunday mornings.
 This summer, look for me on the roof, where I'll be marinating in my Cornish game tan. I might smell like chicken all summer, but at least I can get goat cheese right down the street. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAUL ROGERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEESE (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (64%); ORGANIC BEVERAGES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2009



588 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Arena Football's Dragons Regrouping

BYLINE: By DAVE CALDWELL

DATELINE: UNIONDALE 

 BODY:
 EYLAN HARDING, the coach of the New York Dragons football team, has a windowless office so deep inside Nassau Coliseum that visitors might need a global positioning system to find it. He likes it that way. He can watch game film and work on his laptop in relative peace.
 The Dragons' 16-game Arena Football League season would normally be in full swing, but the league's board, citing debt and higher expenses, canceled the 2009 schedule in December. Still, Mr. Harding and the rest of the scaled-down Dragons staff are preparing to resume play eventually. 
 In the meantime, though, the Coliseum, the Dragons' home since 2001, will be quiet on most of the weekends when they were scheduled to play there. The arena league's regular season typically stretches from early March through late June, and events were booked at the Coliseum on only four of those weekends. 
 The league said last month that it planned to return with a new economic model next spring and that the Dragons would be one of about 16 teams. So Harding has begun gathering information on potential players to fill a now-empty roster that would have 24 players.
 ''We're identifying exactly where we need to go,'' said Harding, the Dragons' coach for four seasons. He smiled and said, ''We've got a chance to detail the car.''
 Arena football is a compact, indoor version of the sport. Teams use six players at a time instead of 11, and because the playing field is only about half the size of an outdoor football field, scoring and collisions are plentiful.
 Steven and Shanna Silva, a South Shore couple, bought the Dragons last July, from Charles B. Wang, the owner of the New York Islanders hockey team. Mr. Silva, 43, the president of Chem Rx, a long-term-care pharmacy with headquarters in Long Beach, said he did not know the league was in imminent trouble when they bought the Dragons. The Silvas said they were doing everything they could to prepare for next season, even if it was 10 months away.
 ''We've really treated this as a very long off-season,'' said Mrs. Silva, 38.
 In September, the Dragons unveiled a new logo and team colors -- black, green and silver -- to revitalize a franchise that was losing fans. The Dragons averaged only 9,072 fans last season, 16th among 17 arena league teams, and 24 percent less than they averaged in 2005.
 ''We're reaching out the best we can to the fans who have been priced out of seeing their favorite teams,'' said Mr. Silva, referring to the Jets, the Giants, the Mets and the Yankees.
 Tickets for the eight Dragons home games that had been scheduled for 2009 were priced from $20 to $90. (Mr. Silva said he expected 2010 prices to be ''somewhat similar.'') In contrast, single-game tickets to Giants and Jets games are unavailable from the teams. Giants season tickets in 2009 average $90.10 per game.
 The Silvas said they had not been in favor of canceling the 2009 season but knew the league's financial plan needed to be reworked. Players and management reached agreement March 16 on a four-year collective bargaining agreement -- a critical step in returning. 
 The Dragons kept their 11th-floor suite in an office building across Hempstead Turnpike from the Coliseum but have trimmed their staff from 22 full-time employees to 6, the Silvas included. The suite has a lot of empty desks, but the Silvas said that would change.
 The league is expected to officially announce -- probably by summer -- that it will return for the 2010 season, and the Dragons will then resume community-outreach programs and marketing strategies. It is not even possible right now to buy a T-shirt with the new logo.
 ''We had been going about 100 miles an hour and then had the rug pulled out from under us,'' said Tim Kelly, the team's chief operating officer. 
 Their first season has been a washout, but the Silvas said they were committed to keeping the team on Long Island. They said they were strong proponents of the Lighthouse at Long Island project, which would renovate the aging Coliseum and develop the area around it.
 ''We're very much a Long Island-based team,'' Mrs. Silva said, ''and anything that is good for Long Island, we'd be in favor of.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HUDDLING: Weylan Harding, coach of the New York Dragons, in the team's office at the Nassau Coliseum in Uniondale. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL J. BERESWILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ICE HOCKEY (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



589 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; JERSEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Infinite Poetry, From a Finite Number

BYLINE: By KEVIN COYNE. 
E-mail: jersey@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Union City 

 BODY:
 IT'S not much of a yard by the standards of most of America -- just a postage stamp of grass behind the house at the corner of Fourth Street and New York Avenue, fenced by chain link and shaded by an unruly maple, here in this densest of cities in this densest of states. But like many things in New Jersey, it turns out to be larger than it looks at first glance.
 The eminent poet W. S. Merwin lived at this corner until he was 9, a block away from the Presbyterian church his father pastored. Several years ago, long after he had won his first Pulitzer, his boyhood city honored him with a street sign here: ''W. S. Merwin Way,'' it reads. Last month, Mr. Merwin won a second Pulitzer prize for poetry -- the fourth New Jersey poet to win in the last 10 years, a streak that is unmatched of late by any other state, and one that raises the question of whether it is more than just a happy coincidence. 
 New Jersey loyalists -- and I, living as I do in the same town where six generations of my family are buried, count myself among them -- would argue that it is. Look at what else we've produced, we argue, and point to a roster of cultural heavyweights that extends from Sinatra to Springsteen. But why this particular and dominating skill in poetry? Why not fiction or drama or history? 
 Something else is going on here, I think, and there's a number that explains it: 566, the number of municipalities in New Jersey, more per square mile than any other state. It's the same number that explains so much else about our state -- its economy, its politics, its landscape, its psychology, and why it has provided such a rich trove of stories for newspapers like this one. Poetry is compressed language, a density of meaning in a small space, and we are a compressed state, a density of communities in a small landscape. 
 ''New Jersey's gift to its poets,'' wrote one of the other Pulitzer winners, Stephen Dunn, ''is that it's a place of many places.''
 There are so many of them that the late Dave Van Ronk wrote a song, ''Garden State Stomp,'' whose lyrics consisted entirely of 80 of the most euphonic place names strung together in a rhyming pattern; and enough remained that he might easily have gone a few stanzas more. ''Allamuchy, Hacklebarney, Rockaway, Piscataway,'' he opened, and continued all the way to, ''Matchaponix, Delawanna, Wawayanda, Timbuctoo.'' 
 It's a crazy system we have here, inefficient in the extreme and the cause of periodic handwringing, especially in years like this, when a budget crunch makes it seem an unaffordable luxury to have 566 governments serving a population roughly the same size as New York City's, which manages with just one. A commission in Trenton -- the infelicitously named Local Unit Alignment, Reorganization and Consolidation Commission -- has been studying the issue for the last year. It recently recommended 26 possible mergers of North Jersey communities; the South Jersey recommendations are expected later this month.
 But the commission can only recommend; it can't undo an entrenched legacy of home rule in the state that dates back before the Revolution. It can't force any of those 566 municipalities to share schools or police or even garbage collection with any other, let alone ask them to merge. It can't erase the fiercely parochial bonds shared by those who remember when the mill closed, when the river rose, when the fire struck, when the high school football team won the championship.
 Consolidation sounds like a reasonable idea, a rational solution to an expensive and anachronistic status quo, until it starts knocking at your own door. If your blood begins to rise at the prospect of your community joining in wedlock with one of its neighbors, then you've just marked yourself as a genuine New Jerseyan. 
 All those separate places -- all 566 of them, with their costly mayors and police chiefs and school principals, but also their priceless heroes and villains, their legends and tragedies -- may be bad for our wallets, but they're essential to our identity. They are the fenced-in gardens where our abundant stories grow; and the smaller they are, the more captive the audience, the faster the stories can root and bloom.
 A couple of weeks ago, the New Jersey Hall of Fame inducted a dozen new members, two of them poets: Walt Whitman, who spent the last 20 years of his life in Camden; and William Carlos Williams, who practiced medicine and wrote some of the most influential poetry of the 20th century in Rutherford, just a few miles across the Meadowlands from the young W. S. Merwin. Both of them, like Mr. Merwin, lived in unlikely places.
 If you hold in your mind an image of what a poet's home should look like -- a rustic farm engirdled by a stone wall, a magnolia-shaded manse, a dim city garret -- theirs, like his, will disappoint. Whitman's home, the only one he ever owned, was a small wood-frame row house near the waterfront. Williams's, just a few blocks from his boyhood home, doubled as a medical office, a rambling Victorian near the World War I monument designed by his brother, an architect.
 What their homes say, what the one on the corner of Fourth and New York says, is that poetry is a neighbor, not a visitor; that it arises most prolifically not from isolated, rarified precincts, but from the dense, chaotic, ever-changing places that our state abounds in. 
 Mr. Merwin returned here in 2006 for the dedication of the street sign, and he found a different city from the one he left. Swelled in the 1960s by Cubans fleeing Castro, Union City is now predominantly Hispanic. His father's yellow-brick church on Palisade Avenue, which kept its back turned to the panoramic view of the Manhattan skyline, was demolished long ago. But across the street from his old home is a Pentecostal church. It, too, is built of yellow brick, and all around it -- and all around every corner of our state -- are more poems to be written, more stories to tell, for someone else, by someone else.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: POET'S CORNER: A street sign in Union City honors a two-time Pulitzer Prize winner.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN COYNE)(NJ2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POETRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); WRITERS (89%); CITY LIFE (77%); SONG WRITING (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



590 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 657 words

PERSON: Robert Sinclair 

HEADLINE: Robert Sinclair, 77, Who Found a Niche for Saab, Dies

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
Robert J. Sinclair, an automobile executive whose brainchild, the Saab 900 convertible, turned Saab into a prestigious brand in the American market, died May 10 in Santa Barbara, Calif., where he had lived since shortly after his retirement in 1991. He was 77.
 The cause was cancer, his son Gregory said. 
 Mr. Sinclair, who had been a salesman and midlevel executive at Saab, the Swedish automaker, in the late 1950s and early 1960s, rejoined the company in 1979 as president of its American division, then known as Saab-Scania. Recognizing a niche in the American market, he pushed for his division to have its own identity, separate from Saab's workaday image in Europe. 
 ''My decision, fairly early on, was that the future for Saab in the United States was in moving upmarket,'' he recalled in an interview for a Saab Web site in 2007. While the company was positioning itself in the no-frills market, he said, ''My view was we should add content, add performance, add sparkle and luster to the brand.''
 Saab's American sales increased from 13,513 in 1980 to 39,264 in 1985. But Mr. Sinclair's greatest triumph was ahead. Having been pressed by corporate headquarters in the early 1980s to accept an annual shipment from Sweden of 1,000 two-door economy-model sedans for sale in the United States, Mr. Sinclair balked and cut another deal. He would accept the cars only with higher-end specifications: fuel injection turbo-charged engines, a five-speed gearbox, cast-aluminum wheels, leather upholstery, metallic paint and, most important, convertible tops. 
 At the time, American car companies had largely stopped building convertibles, fearful of rumors that the government would outlaw them as unsafe. That left the market for convertibles open to Saab. The regulations never came, and the Saab 900 convertible, which made its debut at a Frankfurt motor show in 1983 and reached the marketin 1986, became a sensation. Nearly a quarter of a million were sold over the next 20 years, AutoWeek magazine reported in 2006. 
 Robert John Sinclair was born in Philadelphia on March 17, 1932. His father ran a grocery in Upper Darby, a suburb. He attended Haverford High School, where he was an accomplished singer and pianist, and where he met his future wife, Anne, in a student production of Gilbert & Sullivan's operetta ''The Yeomen of the Guard.'' His plan to be a concert pianist ended when he seriously injured a hand on a meat slicer in his father's store. 
 Mr. Sinclair attended Lafayette College in Easton, Pa., but, a married man at 20, he took a job selling medical equipment.
 ''My mother finally said to him, 'If you're going to be spending all your time in the car, why don't you sell them?' '' Gregory Sinclair said. So he did. His first job in the automobile industry was at a Volkswagen dealership. He joined the Saab sales force in 1958, but he left the company four years later when its American headquarters moved to New Haven from New York City; he did not wish to move with it. Instead he went to work for Volvo, where, by 1978, he had ascended to vice president for marketing.
 In addition to Anne, his wife of 56 years, and his son Gregory, also of Santa Barbara, Mr. Sinclair is survived by two brothers, Roy Sinclair, who is known as Bud, of Rancho Mirage, Calif., and Richard Sinclair of Broomall, Pa.; two other sons, Robert John Sinclair 3rd of Plainfield, N.H., and Stephen Sinclair of Pasadena, Calif.; three daughters, Rebecca Sinclair of Los Angeles, Elisabeth Loree of Portland, Ore., and Jennifer Gregor, also of Portland; and eight grandchildren. 
 Mr. Sinclair was a popular figure at auto shows and industry conventions; among members of the Saab Club of North America he was known as Uncle Bob. An adventurer with a fondness for motorcycles and power boats, he and his wife often traveled by motorcycle. 
 ''I always rode on the back,'' Mrs. Sinclair said. ''It was a great way to see the world.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Sinclair, an American Saab executive, in a racing car. (PHOTOGRAPH UNDATED, TROLLHATTANSAAB.NET) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (87%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (87%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); SEDANS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); SALES FIGURES (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); CANCER (57%)

COMPANY: SCANIA AB (57%)

TICKER: SCV.B (STO) (57%); SCV.A (STO) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (57%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); SWEDEN (77%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



591 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Smaller Firms Gain Foothold As Big Drug Makers Shrink

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

 BODY:
THE news for workers in New Jersey's big pharmaceutical companies has hardly been good lately. The state's status as the capital of pharmaceutical research, manufacturing and marketing is being eroded generally by an evolving global marketplace and locally by the mergers of some of the biggest names in the pharmaceutical industry, each to be followed as surely as plop-plop fizz-fizz by plant closings and layoffs.
 If there is any good news in all this, it is for the men and women in white lab coats: New Jersey's quality of life, and its proximity to capital markets, have helped expand its biotechnical research sector, a sub-industry within pharmaceuticals, with relatively few, but very well-paid, employees, industry members say. But for the office workers, the manufacturers and the well-groomed men and women hired to hand out samples and ball point pens at doctors' offices, the future is much darker. 
 ''For New Jersey, there are definitely going to be some very consequential changes,'' said Raymond Hill, general manager for consulting and services at IMS Health, a consulting firm. ''New Jersey has been the heartland for pharma for a lot of companies, but the trend we see is a continued movement of these operations out of state and overseas, where it's just a lot cheaper to manufacture drugs and to do clinical trials.''
 Three major pharmaceutical companies with operations in New Jersey have mergers under way, and each one will involve disruptions in lives and careers. In January, Pfizer, based in Manhattan, announced its plan to purchase Wyeth, a big Madison company. In March, Merck, based in Readington Township in Hunterdon County, announced its intention to merge with Schering-Plough, located in Kenilworth; Merck officials said they expected to eliminate 15 percent of their 105,000-person global work force. 
 And on March 12, Roche, the Swiss pharmaceutical company with United States headquarters in Nutley, agreed to acquire full ownership of Genentech, the California genetic research company. It announced it would close its manufacturing plant in Nutley, for a loss of 400 jobs, and shift its marketing and sales offices to California.
 ''In 2008, we had 13.1 percent of the nation's pharmaceutical jobs -- that's the good news,'' said James W. Hughes, dean of the Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers. ''The bad news is that in 1990 we had 20.2 percent, so what we are seeing is that the big new investment in this industry over the past decade has not been coming to New Jersey.''
 In 1990, New Jersey was home to nearly 42,000 pharmaceutical jobs; by 2007, that number had shrunk to 37,800, Mr. Hughes said, a decline of 11 percent. That may not be a terrible drop, except when contrasted with the tremendous growth in the industry nationally during the same period, from 207,200 jobs in 1990 to 290,000 in 2008, an increase of 40 percent, according to Mr. Hughes. 
 Yet there is a bright spot in the way New Jersey has managed to sustain a strong presence of biomedical research, which is where new drugs are created, and where some of the highest-paying work is in the industry. Since 1998, the number of biotechnology research firms in the state has grown from 80 to 240, according to Debbie Hart, president of BioNJ, a biotech trade group. These companies are tiny, some with no more than two or three scientists, she said, but the average number of scientists these firms employ is about 100. 
 The reason those jobs are still here, and growing, has as much to do with money as with brainpower, Ms. Hart said, since the development of drugs is fueled by venture capital, and the companies like to stay close to investors. 
 ''New Jersey is a very desirable location for biotech, because we have supportive government programs and we have the financial markets literally across the river in New York, as well as billions of dollars in venture capital on Nassau Street in Princeton,'' Ms. Hart said. ''And New Jersey is a great place to live.''
 Kambiz Shekdar and Gunter Blobel, cellular biologists at the Rockefeller University in New York, made the same discovery in 2003. They were looking for lab space where their new company, Chromocell Corporation, could develop their research into drug delivery systems. They looked in New York, Connecticut and Pennsylvania, but settled on a small incubator space in North Brunswick, where the New Jersey Economic Development Authority had created the state Technology Centre.
 ''We looked at New York first, but there was simply no lab space available that we could afford,'' said Christian Kopfli, Chromocell's chief executive. 
 Today Chromocell has grown to 80 employees doing research for pharmaceutical clients on methods of targeting drugs for pain relief, anxiety and respiratory disorders. And in March, it opened a new research center.
 The state's livability turned out to be crucial in the career decisions of one victim of the rampant mergers and acquisitions sweeping the industry. Gerrit Dispersyn is a biomedical researcher whose former employer, Barrier Therapeutics, was bought by a Florida company that offered to keep him on, but only if he moved.
 ''They wanted me most in Atlanta, and I had to see the bigger picture,'' said Mr. Dispersyn, one of a large community of Belgians working in New Jersey's pharmaceutical industry.
 With New Jersey's concentration of biomedical research, he said, there are plenty of firms that could provide him other opportunities, something that he feared he would not find in Georgia. In fact, while he was weighing his options, Integra Life Sciences Corporation of Plainsboro offered Mr. Dispersyn a vice president's position at his old salary, and he took it.
 ''When we moved to the States, my wife and I found it was so nice to be in a very international population here in New Jersey, including a lot of Belgians -- it made our social life very pleasant,'' he said.
 New Jersey's appeal as a center for biomedical research also accounts for the one advantage for the state in the Roche-Genentech merger. While the state will lose the 400 manufacturing jobs and a still undetermined number of sales and marketing jobs will shift to the company's Palo Alto site, Roche plans to move a couple of hundred jobs from its global oncology research facilities in Palo Alto to Nutley. Those workers will join the 1,600 research and development employees already at work at the firm's inflammation laboratories there, according to Al Wasilewski, a company spokesman. 
 The reasons pharmaceutical companies give for leaving New Jersey are familiar to any executive who has measured the lure of states to the South and West, with their promises of lower wages and taxes and speedier permits. 
 And permits can be the catch. New Jersey's fractured municipal map and a general resistance to growth can make for a long wait for approvals. 
 ''All states are reviewing their regulatory and permitting processes to remove onerous requirements that impede economic growth,'' said Bob Franks, president of the HealthCare Institute of New Jersey, a pharmaceutical industry trade group. ''New Jersey needs to undertake the same type of exercise to remain competitive.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GROWTH VENTURE: Chromocell, a biomedical research company in North Brunswick, located in New Jersey for affordable lab space.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(NJ1)
 STAYING PUT: Gerrit and Sonja Dispersyn decided to stay in Pennington after his employer was sold. He quickly found another pharmaceutical job. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(NJ6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (95%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (91%); PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTRY (90%); CHEMICALS RESEARCH (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); CLOSINGS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); PLANT CLOSINGS (76%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (53%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (91%); MERCK & CO INC (85%); IMS HEALTH INC (55%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (91%); PFEB (BRU) (91%); PFE (NYSE) (91%); MRK (PAR) (85%); MRK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (91%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



592 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1715 words

HEADLINE: Her Magic Act: Transforming Herself Nightly

BYLINE: By CHARLES McGRATH

 BODY:
 ''BLITHE SPIRIT'' is a piece of fluff built around some titanium clockwork that Noel Coward soldered together over just a few days in 1941, when he thought London needed cheering up. Without knowing it he had begun to invent the sitcom. 
 The mainspring of the mechanism, and the key to its success, is the part of Madame Arcati, the martini-guzzling, ectoplasm-sniffing medium who summons forth the shade of Charles Condomine's departed first wife. She needs to be simultaneously preposterous and entirely serious, and Angela Lansbury, in her Tony-nominated performance in the current revival at the Shubert Theater, is a whirlwind of dottiness with a ramrod spine of practicality. Her eyes rimmed in black, clunky jewelry dangling from her neck, she plays Madame Arcati like a tyrannical gym teacher, at one point urging her fellow seance-goers, ''Next time we must really put our backs into it.'' 
 Ms. Lansbury, who is 83, with five previous Tony nominations (and four wins) in her portfolio, also brings an otherworldly amount of energy to the part. Before going into her trance, she turns on the gramophone and performs an elaborately silly dance that carries her all over the stage and seems at times like a demented version of Steve Martin's old ''King Tut'' routine. At one early performance she got so carried away she almost landed in the lap of Simon Jones, who plays the skeptical Dr. Bradman. Recovering quickly, she held out her hand and invited him to join in. 
 There is not a great deal of textual support for this part of her performance, Ms. Lansbury admitted recently, sitting in the apartment she keeps in New York. The stage direction says only, ''Occasionally she moves into an abortive little dance step.'' 
 ''I thought, 'I'll take it from there,' '' she said, ''and it's just sort of grown.'' She laughed. ''Not really very abortive anymore.'' 
 The director, Michael Blakemore, encouraged her, she added, though she told him she didn't really know what she was doing. Every night the dance is a little different, and she makes it up as she goes along. According to Mr. Jones, the stagehands have had to remind Ms. Lansbury not to dance so far downstage that she topples into the audience.
 Ms. Lansbury is not a fan of the Method. ''I always say, 'Don't do it; act it,' '' she said, explaining: ''I don't know anything at all about the occult. I think all that just gets in the way. You have to take what's given to you by the author.'' 
 In the case of Madame Arcati what Coward gave her was the character's dialogue. ''She talks with such authority, she's like a sergeant major, and what that told me was she probably attended a place like Girton,'' she said, referring to the famously bluestocking women's college at Cambridge in England. ''I knew a lot of women like that when I was young.''
 Madame Arcati's hairdo -- a bright red wig with Princess Leia-like plaits wrapped over her ears -- was also Ms. Lansbury's idea. ''We used to call them earphones, and they were the style in the '20s and '30s,'' she said. ''My nan, the woman who took care of me as a child, wore them.''
 Rupert Everett, who plays Condomine, the play's other key role, with a languor, wit and elegance that make him seem practically a stand-in for Coward himself, said of Ms. Lansbury's portrayal: ''She's nothing like herself. If you don't talk to her before the performance for a couple of days, you start to get used to the character and imagine that it really is Angela. It's an amazing feat. We're all just awe-struck by her energy.''
 In real life Ms. Lansbury seems taller and more willowy than she does onstage. She's more composed than Madame Arcati and burns at a cooler temperature, speaking in a low, soft voice. She's also a very handsome woman and still has the wide forehead, deep, wide-set eyes and cupid's bow mouth of a movie star from the studio era. She really is what Mr. Jones jokingly called a legend. 
 ''Legends!'' he said, pretending to sound weary of them and pointing out that he had also appeared with Rex Harrison, Claudette Colbert, Lauren Bacall and even Laurence Olivier. ''But with Angela it's quite an educational experience,'' he went on. ''The audience adores her.'' 
 At many performances Ms. Lansbury practically stops the show the moment she steps onstage. Doubtless some of those applauding are greeting their reassuring old Sunday evening companion, Jessica Fletcher, from the anodyne CBS series ''Murder, She Wrote.'' But others surely remember her groundbreaking, Tony-winning performances in ''Mame,'' ''Gypsy'' and ''Sweeney Todd,'' and, scrolling back in the scrapbook, they can still picture her as Laurence Harvey's evil mum in ''The Manchurian Candidate,'' as Victor Mature's busty fiancee in ''Samson and Delilah,'' as Elizabeth Taylor's older sister in ''National Velvet,'' as a sweetly innocent vaudeville singer in ''The Picture of Dorian Gray'' and as the saucy, sexy cockney servant girl in ''Gaslight.'' 
 ''Gaslight,'' which came out in 1944, was Ms. Lansbury's film debut, so talked-about that it immediately landed her a contract with MGM. She was just 18 then and had grown up in a family that combined theater and politics. Her mother, Moyna MacGill, had been a West End actress. Her grandfather, George Lansbury, was a member of Parliament and leader of the Labor Party. ''I went to all the best schools,'' Ms. Lansbury said, ''but I had no book learning. I was more interested in watching and listening to people. I was always dropping off into daydreams about who they were and what they were doing.''
 What Ms. Lansbury's mother had perceived as a certain talent for comedy turned into considerable screen allure, and for a while it seemed that Ms. Lansbury might have the kind of career enjoyed by her friend Deborah Kerr. She was sexy, glamorous and in those days had the high, quick, very British voice so much in style then. 
 ''But I was an actress,'' she said. ''I wasn't very good at being a starlet. I didn't want to pose for cheesecake photos and that kind of thing. It was very difficult. I tried to fit in, but I really wasn't cut out for it. I don't know what I did wrong. Maybe I didn't sleep with enough people. I think that had something to do with it. I really do. Maybe I didn't play Louis B. Mayer the way I might have.'' 
 Instead of stardom, Ms. Lansbury said, she had the kind of career she wanted, and after some lean days in the '50s, when the movie parts she was offered were no longer to her liking, she was rescued by the theater. ''In 1957 I came to Broadway to read for 'Hotel Paradiso' with Bert Lahr,'' she said. ''That was the beginning.''
 Her career in musical comedy began in the early '60s when Arthur Laurents wrote to her, inviting her to try out for the new Stephen Sondheim show ''Anyone Can Whistle.'' ''For some reason they liked my personality,'' she said. ''But I had a little, high soprano, and they wanted a belter, so I learned how to belt.'' She added: ''I loved singing in musicals. It's a much easier job to be in a musical than to be in a straight play. The music just carries you along -- provided you've got a great role, that is.''
 She sighed a little when asked about ''Murder, She Wrote.'' ''I know, I know,'' she said. ''It's going to be in my obit. That's how they'll lead off. It was really a fluke success and came at a time when that kind of family entertainment seemed needed. It did particularly well with men, oddly enough. The character was very calming. She was the voice of reason in a very troubled time -- the recession of the '80s, if you think about it.''
 She went on to say that of all the characters she has played, Jessica Fletcher is probably the most like herself. ''I had a lot of say in it, and I didn't want the character to be quirky,'' she explained. ''I wanted her to be real. I didn't want to have to put on any kind of veneer for 24 hours a day, which is what a television schedule sometimes feels like. I'm not as smart as Jessica, but I'm intuitive and sensitive the way she is. If you're sensitive, I've found, you can pick up what you need as you go along.'' 
 Ms. Lansbury's previous Broadway appearance was in 2007, when she starred with Marian Seldes, another formidable presence, in ''Deuce,'' about a pair of retired tennis stars. The experience was thoroughly satisfying despite indifferent reviews, yet she resolved never to repeat it. ''I said: 'That's it. I'm never coming back.' It's a very lonely life, being in a play when you're on your own. You go to the theater, you go home and go to bed,'' she said, adding that she had a tendency to be passive and retiring and used to rely on her husband, Peter Shaw, who died in 2003, to ''tip me out of the garden.'' But for ''Blithe Spirit'' she tipped herself out.
 ''When this was proposed to me, my ears perked up like a terrier,'' she said. ''I immediately said, 'Wow, I'd love to have a crack at playing Madame Arcati.' How many roles like that can I see at this time in my life?'' She added that not the least appealing thing about the part was that Madame Arcati doesn't appear in every scene. ''It's a play that vocally requires a great deal of energy and power, and I wouldn't want to have to take it at full tilt every scene. I could do it if I have to, but it takes its toll.'' She went on: ''I come from strong, muscular stock, and I take extraordinarily good care of myself, I can tell you that. I do it for no other reason than that I don't want to get sick and become a burden on people.''
 Mr. Jones said: ''She does get tired, but she knows how to pace herself. That's her skill.'' He added that on eBay recently he had come across an exercise tape that Ms. Lansbury made in 1988. ''I keep telling her: 'For goodness sake, you should sell it in the lobby. You're living proof it works.' '' 

CORRECTION-DATE:  June 07, 2009

 CORRECTION:
 A picture caption on May 17 with an article about Angela Lansbury misidentified an actor shown with her in ''Samson and Delilah'' (1949), and a correction in this space last Sunday misstated the given name of the other actor in the photo. The actor shown with Ms. Lansbury is William Farnum, who portrayed Tubal -- not Henry Wilcoxon, who played Ahtur in the film. And the third actor is Victor Mature, not Vincent. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Angela Lansbury, at 83, is a Tony nominee for her performance in ''Blithe Spirit,'' below left, with Rupert Everett. Below right, Ms. Lansbury in the role that brought her television fame: Jessica Fletcher in ''Murder, She Wrote.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
CBS
SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Ms. Lansbury's film career includes, from left below, a saucy maid in ''Gaslight'' (1944), with Charles Boyer
Cecil B. DeMille stardom in ''Samson and Delilah'' (1949) with, from left, Victor Mature and Henry Wilcoxon
 and a manipulative mother in ''The Manchurian Candidate'' (1962). (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVERETT COLLECTION) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (75%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (68%); THEATER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009



593 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Twice in Trouble, a Family Tries to Stay in Its Home

BYLINE: By DERRICK HENRY

DATELINE: HAUPPAUGE 

 BODY:
 WITH the recession crimping her family's income, Hallie S. Stern said that she is three months behind on her mortgage payments. It is not the first time the family has had trouble making the mortgage since 2005.
 ''Last year, we were on time, even if the economy was going into the dumper,'' said Ms. Stern, 42, as she sipped tea at her kitchen table. ''It's just that life circumstances kept slapping us in the face. This year is no exception.''
 Several months ago, it was mostly homeowners with subprime loans who were at the forefront of the foreclosure crisis. Now, with the recession deepening, thousands of middle-class families who took out conventional fixed-rate loans like the one Ms. Stern has on her three-bedroom ranch house here are finding themselves in trouble. 
 Ms. Stern said she and her husband, Steve, 48, a truck driver, bought the house for $210,000 in June 1999 from his parents, who provided a gift of equity of $40,000 so that the couple did not have to come up with a down payment. They took out a $170,000 mortgage at 7.25 percent interest, giving them a monthly payment of $1,500, including taxes and insurance. 
 In 2005, the couple leased a used 18-wheeler to start a trucking business. But rising fuel prices and unanticipated repair costs caused the business to fail. At that time, the couple fell behind on the mortgage and the lender, EverHome Mortgage Company of Jacksonville, Fla., agreed to let them catch up under a repayment plan. 
 In 2007, the couple hit another low point. Ms. Stern, who works mostly on commission for an equipment leasing company, lost out on a big sale. Her husband changed jobs, so their income was not steady. In May of that year, they missed the 12th of 13 payments required under their new financial arrangement with their lender, which led to foreclosure proceedings.
 At that point, the couple sought help from the Community Development Corporation of Long Island, a nonprofit group that offers assistance to people having trouble with their mortgages. Their lender agreed to modify their loan. The new mortgage, which had grown to $357,000 because of multiple refinancings, additional borrowing and legal fees, was set at 6.75 percent interest. The monthly payment was $2,843.
 Ms. Stern said she again began having trouble paying the mortgage last fall when her sales commissions declined. The recession has hobbled business loans for equipment like tractors and furniture, she said. ''When I can't make an approval, I can't make money,'' said Ms. Stern, who said her household income is about $90,000 a year.
 To make matters worse, her husband was out of work in the winter, a seasonal layoff. Ms. Stern said the family's resources had to go even further to cover their $5,500 monthly expenses.
 ''I never expected my utilities to double,'' Ms. Stern said. She glanced out the window at her driveway. ''I never expected gas prices to go up. I drive a Hyundai and a 12-year-old Mercury.''
 Ms. Stern said that she has been working with a housing counselor at the community development group on Long Island to try to persuade the bank to reduce the interest rate or the monthly payment. Ms. Stern recently entered into a three-month trial payment plan arranged by her lender. If she makes the payments on time, the lender will modify the mortgage. 
 Meanwhile, Ms. Stern said her two sons, 12 and 8, sense trouble. Her older son is asking questions about their situation, she said. ''I'll try to answer him in a way without hurting him,'' she said.
 Her husband has talked about moving the family to Texas or North Carolina to give them a fresh start. Ms. Stern said she would rather they find a way to remain in their house and on Long Island, because she grew up here, in North Massapequa, and she wants her sons to be close to family. Outside, a neighbor strode past the basketball hoop. The sun had scooted west. Ms. Stern said she had to get back to work and then pick up her boys.
 ''You have your real life on top of this nightmare,'' Ms. Stern said. ''And it better be the last time because I can't live on this roller coaster anymore.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WORKING IT OUT: Hallie S. Stern and her husband, Steve, are attempting to get a second modification of their mortgage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); FAMILY (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); TRUCK DRIVERS (77%); EQUIPMENT FINANCING (75%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); TRUCKING (72%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); LEASING INDUSTRY (70%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (70%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (70%); SALES COMPENSATION (68%); SALES FORCE (68%)

COMPANY: EVERHOME MORTGAGE CO (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (66%); SIC6163 LOAN BROKERS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (54%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



594 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LIVES; Pg. 66

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Too Much Credit

BYLINE: By BEN HELLER. 
Ben Heller is a managing director at a hedge fund in New York.

 BODY:
In early 2007, a senior salesman on the emerging-markets desk at a major U.S. investment bank -- one that subsequently escaped perdition by grasping a lifeline from another institution -- called me in a huff. I work at a hedge fund, running the group that makes loans and other investments in developing countries. ''I'm really sorry,'' the salesman said, his tone betraying annoyance rather than contrition, ''but it's gotten to the point that we can't show you deals anymore. You guys are too difficult.'' I was puzzled. What had we done? ''You're too negative! All you do is ask pointed questions! And in the end, you pass.'' Our sin: instead of responding to each pitch with an enthusiastic yes, we asked for more data. And sometimes -- maybe even more than half the time! -- we said no. The last straw was apparently that we'd turned down a gas project in Indonesia; a few questions revealed it to be controlled by a shady family that defaulted on lenders a few years before, sticking them with losses of 90 cents on the dollar. Details! 
 I came to the business a dozen years ago believing my job would consist of ''doing deals.'' I imagined the investments I'd make materializing into new mines in Russia or towers in Sao Paulo. Early on, however, I learned that success had as much to do with the investments you refuse to make. A big part of my job was saying no. And as I gained experience, I learned to get there more quickly and precisely. Promissory notes of a Caribbean government, issued by presidential writ (when I know the constitution requires legislative approval of new debt): this conversation's over! A company with a chart in which a flat line of historical losses spikes significantly into a projection of increasing profits: no way; we don't believe in ''magic hockey sticks''!
 Yet as the credit bubble inflated, the same spirit of permissiveness that pervaded the mortgage market mellowed the cranky skepticism of us emerging-markets investors. A three-year unsecured loan to a ''Top 4'' (read: the fourth-largest) bank in Azerbaijan, almost as large as its entire deposit base? How about financing the takeover of a decrepit Balkan steel mill with imperfect title at almost 100 percent of its value? However brutally I might have dismissed them, whatever specific flaws I might have criticized, these deals were getting yeses from other funds. Salesmen often called later to make sure I knew the deal had been placed; their gloating implied that my no left me behind the times.
 Because there was seemingly no defect too glaring to disqualify a borrower, bankers began to take a quick and decisive no as a personal affront. At a meeting in our Hong Kong office, after a colleague challenged the soundness of a Chinese metals deal, the banker got up with his team and marched out, acidly reminding us that there were 87 other floors in the International Finance Center building for him to try. He wouldn't have to go far to raise the money he wanted. Next time, I realized, he and his brethren might not make it to our floor at all. 
 And so I retired the swift, brutal no. I gave nearly every potential loan a hearing. The tricky thing, though, about listening is that I sometimes found myself persuaded. Rising markets had a way of submerging mountainous problems until they looked more like molehills. I ultimately said yes to several maybes that should have been noes from the start. Some of these decisions today make me blush. Anybody out there care for a small Argentine oil field? I've been assured that the angry gang of Mapuche activists blockading it will be gone soon.
 Then one day last year, my firm decided that the credit crisis had become so acute, the need to preserve liquidity so imperative, that we needed to drastically curtail new emerging-markets loans for the foreseeable future. In this, the firm was hardly unique. Many of those 88 floors in the I.F.C. tower (and their analogues in other financial centers) now stood empty. A few hours later, a banker called to follow up on an e-mail message he sent earlier ''teasing'' a deal: a loan to a South American ''natural forestry'' company with virtually no operations, huge logistical challenges and risibly rosy projections. ''So, you want to take a look?'' he asked.
 The constraint on new investment paradoxically restored my freedom. ''No!'' I declared. 
 ''Just no?''
 ''Should I elaborate?'' I asked. I told him that it was the dumbest idea I'd heard in a long while, and that I'd sooner pile up hundred-dollar bills to make a bonfire than invest.
 I hung up abruptly, and I began to feel a long-forgotten rush. The rush of calling foolishness by its true name. The pleasure of meting out chastisement to presumption. The satisfaction of knowing that my no meant a death blow for this bad idea, because there wasn't an uncritical yes waiting next door. I am capital's gatekeeper, and you shall not pass! 
 Submissions for Lives may be sent to lives@nytimes.com The magazine cannot return or respond to unsolicited manuscripts. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HOLLY WALES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEBT NOTES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); TAKEOVERS (75%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (54%) UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); INDONESIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); AZERBAIJAN (69%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



595 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Voter Crankiness Still Bedevils Candidates

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
 AS one of just two states to hold a governor's race during the low tide political year immediately after the presidential election, New Jersey once again finds itself under the careful scrutiny of pollsters and pundits trying to gauge the mood of the American electorate. 
 The news from along the turnpike this year: voters are cranky. Very cranky. 
 Poll after poll shows that state residents are anxious about the economy and angry about the Wall Street excesses that helped fuel the crisis. They are disillusioned at the performance of Gov. Jon S. Corzine, a Democrat, and his party colleagues who control the State Legislature.
 Judging from the tone of the first Republican gubernatorial primary debate Tuesday -- a jibe fest in which Steven M. Lonegan, the former mayor of Bogota, archly pointed out that his rival, Christopher J. Christie, the former United States attorney for New Jersey, had been voted out of office after a single term as a Morris County freeholder -- the candidates are getting testy, too.
 ''I'm surprised with that record, Chris, you weren't re-elected after that one term,'' Mr. Lonegan said after Mr. Christie described his accomplishments.
 But however closely political scientists may read the state's electoral entrails in search of national trends, the fact is that New Jersey's cantankerous voters are a singularly quirky lot. At first glance, they can appear a classic example of the northeastern liberal -- laissez-faire on social issues and, during the past decade, increasingly hospitable to Democrats. 
 Scratch beneath that surface, however, and the voters here have an independent, ornery and unpredictable streak that has bedeviled candidates and provided a vexing training ground for some of the political world's A-list consultants: from a Republican operative like Ed Rollins to Democrats like Paul Begala and James Carville. 
 ''They're a tough sell,'' said William Pascoe, a conservative strategist who has run races in nine states but gone 0-for-3 in representing New Jersey Republicans in statewide races during the past decade. ''They're difficult and expensive to reach, they're inured to corruption and they're more skeptical than voters elsewhere.''
 While registered Democrats outnumber Republicans, unaffiliated voters outnumber both major parties combined and party loyalty is tenuous. New Jersey voters adhere to a stubborn practicality -- usually allowing pocketbook issues to trump ideology, ethical purity or party identification -- and are quick to lash out at candidates who seem out-of-touch with the financial worries of the middle-class family.
 When he was governor, Jim Florio's tax increases touched off such a firestorm that he found his likeness emblazoned on bathroom tissue before being run from office. When Bill Bradley, United States senator at the time, refused to repudiate Florio tax increases, saying that state financial policy shouldn't concern a member of Congress, his tone-deafness almost led to his defeat by a political newcomer named Christine Todd Whitman. 
 And when Mrs. Whitman was later elected governor and ran for re-election, she was nearly toppled by James E. McGreevey because many voters thought she was oblivious to their financial pain, particularly in the state's high auto insurance rates. 
 Given the state's recent run of criminal indictments against politicians, voters here also have complex, and at times cynical, attitudes toward political corruption. New Jersey's electorate has been reluctant to pass harsh judgment on candidates for mistakes in their personal lives, and the frequently shrill tone of statewide elections has forced them to winnow out serious misconduct from innuendo. But once an officeholder has been found to have violated the public trust, the voters have shown little mercy -- Senator Robert G. Torricelli, who was admonished by the Senate Ethics Committee during his 2002 re-election campaign, had to withdraw from the race to avert an Election Day rout. 
 ''New Jerseyans are less trusting and more liable to turn on an officeholder,'' said Clay Richards, assistant director of the Quinnipiac Poll. ''And given everything the elected officials have put them through, they certainly have justification for doing that.''
 Some of the idiosyncrasies are a function of its disjointed news media market: the state has no network television station of its own, forcing voters to rely on New York City and Philadelphia affiliates, which have limited interest in New Jersey political news and are an expensive way for candidates to broadcast a message. As a result, voters here tend to be slightly less informed than those elsewhere, according to pollsters, and it is harder for candidates to establish statewide name recognition. 
 As for the legendary orneriness, some analysts say that it may be because life in New Jersey has turned out to be more crowded, hectic and expensive than the idyllic dream many people envisioned if they moved to the suburbs from a big city.
 ''If anything makes people cranky, it's that the quality of life has been chipped away by all of the development and increased density,'' said Joel Benenson, a pollster for President Obama, who has done work in New Jersey for a variety of candidates. 
 With the economy listing and the state's finances in turmoil, even the most optimistic candidates expect more pain in the near future. One voter, Bill Samson, 36, of Hamilton, an IT engineer and a former Democrat who now calls himself an independent, said that residents won't give up hope. 
 ''Most of the time -- a lot of the time -- the candidates let you down,'' said Mr. Samson, who was interviewed at the Trenton train station. ''But what are you going to do? If you don't bother to vote, they'll be even worse.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FIRING: Steven M. Lonegan, left, and Christopher J. Christie at their recent debate.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MEL EVANS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); TRENDS (65%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (64%); CORRUPTION (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (53%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



596 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 4743 words

HEADLINE: My Personal Credit Crisis

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS. 
Edmund L. Andrews is an economics reporter for The Times and the author of ''Busted: Life Inside the Great Mortgage Meltdown,'' which will be published next month by W.W. Norton and from which this article is adapted.

 BODY:
If there was anybody who should have avoided the mortgage catastrophe, it was I. As an economics reporter for The New York Times, I have been the paper's chief eyes and ears on the Federal Reserve for the past six years. I watched Alan Greenspan and his successor, Ben S. Bernanke, at close range. I wrote several early-warning articles in 2004 about the spike in go-go mortgages. Before that, I had a hand in covering the Asian financial crisis of 1997, the Russia meltdown in 1998 and the dot-com collapse in 2000. I know a lot about the curveballs that the economy can throw at us.
 But in 2004, I joined millions of otherwise-sane Americans in what we now know was a catastrophic binge on overpriced real estate and reckless mortgages. Nobody duped or hypnotized me. Like so many others -- borrowers, lenders and the Wall Street dealmakers behind them -- I just thought I could beat the odds. We all had our reasons. The brokers and dealmakers were scoring huge commissions. Ordinary homebuyers were stretching to get into first houses, or bigger houses, or better neighborhoods. Some were greedy, some were desperate and some were deceived. 
 As for me, I had two utterly compelling reasons for taking the plunge: the money was there, and I was in love. It was August 2004, just as the mortgage party was getting really good. I was 48 years old and eager to start a new chapter in my life with Patricia Barreiro, who was then my fiancee. 
 Patty was brainy, regal, sexy, fiery and eclectic. She was one of my closest friends when we were both students at an American high school in Argentina. Back then, we would talk together about politics and books at a coffee shop every day after school. We were not romantic in those days and went our separate ways after high school. But each of us would go through bruising two-decade-long marriages, and we felt that sweet spark of remembrance and renewal upon meeting again in middle age.
 After a one-year bicoastal courtship, Patty was about to move from her home in Los Angeles to Washington. We would need a home with enough space for her two youngest children, as well as for my own teenage boys on the weekends. I had assumed we would start by renting a house or an apartment, but it quickly became clear that it was almost easier to borrow a half-million dollars and buy something.
 Patty discovered a small but stately brick home in a leafy, kid-filled neighborhood in Silver Spring, Md. We sent in an offer of $460,000 and one day later got our answer: the sellers accepted. I felt both amazed and exhilarated, convinced that the stars had aligned for us. I loved the house as soon as I saw it. It was one block from a school and a park. My boys would be within a 15-minute drive, and it would be easy for them to come over and stay whenever they wanted. 
 The only problem was money. Having separated from my wife of 21 years, who had physical custody of our sons, I was handing over $4,000 a month in alimony and child-support payments. That left me with take-home pay of $2,777, barely enough to make ends meet in a one-bedroom rental apartment. Patty had yet to even look for a job. At any other time in history, the idea of someone like me borrowing more than $400,000 would have seemed insane.
 But this was unlike any other time in history. My real estate agent gave me the number of Bob Andrews, a loan officer at American Home Mortgage Corporation. Bob wasn't related to me, and I had never heard of his company. ''Bob can be very helpful,'' my agent explained. ''He specializes in unusual situations.''
 Bob returned my call right away. ''How big a mortgage do you think you'll need?'' he asked.
 ''My situation is a little complicated,'' I warned. I told him about my child support and alimony payments and said I was banking on Patty to earn enough money to keep us afloat. Bob cut me off. ''I specialize in challenges,'' he said confidently. 
 As I quickly found out, American Home Mortgage had become one of the fastest-growing mortgage lenders in the country. One of its specialties was serving people just like me: borrowers with good credit scores who wanted to stretch their finances far beyond what our incomes could justify. In industry jargon, we were ''Alt-A'' customers, and we usually paid slightly higher rates for the privilege of concealing our financial weaknesses.
 I thought I knew a lot about go-go mortgages. I had already written several articles about the explosive growth of liar's loans, no-money-down loans, interest-only loans and other even more exotic mortgages. I had interviewed people with very modest incomes who had taken out big loans. Yet for all that, I was stunned at how much money people were willing to throw at me.
 Bob called back the next morning. ''Your credit scores are almost perfect,'' he said happily. ''Based on your income, you can qualify for a mortgage of about $500,000.''
 What about my alimony and child-support obligations? No need to mention them. What would happen when they saw the automatic withholdings in my paycheck? No need to show them. If I wanted to buy a house, Bob figured, it was my job to decide whether I could afford it. His job was to make it happen.
 ''I am here to enable dreams,'' he explained to me long afterward. Bob's view was that if I'd been unemployed for seven years and didn't have a dime to my name but I wanted a house, he wouldn't question my prudence. ''Who am I to tell you that you shouldn't do what you want to do? I am here to sell money and to help you do what you want to do. At the end of the day, it's your signature on the mortgage -- not mine.''
 You had to admire this muscular logic. My lenders weren't assuming that I was an angel. They were betting that a default would be more painful to me than to them. If I wanted to take a risk, for whatever reason, they were not going to second-guess me. What mattered more than anything, Bob explained, was a person's credit record. History seemed to show that the most important predictor of whether people defaulted on their mortgages was their ''FICO'' score (named after the Fair Isaac Corporation, which developed the main rating system). If you always paid your debts on time before, the theory went, you would probably keep paying on time in the future.
 Bob's original plan was to write two mortgages, one for 80 percent of the purchase price and a piggyback loan for 10 percent. I would kick in the final 10 percent, cashing out a chunk of New York Times stock -- my last. If I had been a normal borrower, the whole deal would have sailed through at a low interest rate. My $120,000 base salary and my assets were easy to document. But given my actual income after alimony and child support, I couldn't possibly have qualified for a standard mortgage. Bob's plan was to write a ''stated-income loan,'' or ''liar's loan,'' so that I wouldn't have to give the game away by producing paychecks or tax returns.
 Unfortunately, Bob's plan hit a snag a few days later. ''Ed, the underwriters say that your name is on another mortgage,'' he told me. ''That means you're carrying too much debt.''
 The mortgage was on my old house, which I had turned over to my ex-wife. As part of our separation agreement, she accepted full legal responsibility for making the payments. But the separation agreement also spelled out exactly how much I had to pay each month to my ex-wife. If we showed it to the underwriters, they would reject me.
 Bob didn't get flustered. If Plan A didn't work, he would simply move down another step on the ladder of credibility. Instead of ''stating'' my income without documenting it, I would take out a ''no ratio'' mortgage and not state my income at all. For the price of a slightly higher interest rate, American Home would verify my assets, but that was it. Because I wasn't stating my income, I couldn't have a debt-to-income ratio, and therefore, I couldn't have too much debt. I could have had four other mortgages, and it wouldn't have mattered. American Home was practically begging me to take the money.
 Despite the obvious red flag of applying for a Don't Ask, Don't Tell loan, I wasn't paying that much for the money. The rate on my primary mortgage of $333,700 was a remarkably low 5.625 percent for the first five years, though my monthly payments would probably jump substantially after the fifth year. On top of that, I was paying a much higher rate of 8.5 percent on my ''piggyback'' loan for $80,300. Even so, I would be paying slightly more than $2,500 a month for the first five years. It would get expensive eventually, but I could worry about that later.
 ''Don't worry,'' Bob reassured me, saying what almost everybody else in real estate was saying at that moment. ''The value of your house will be higher in five years. You'll be able to refinance.''
 As I walked out of the settlement office with my loan papers, I couldn't shake the sense of having just done something bad . . . but also kind of cool. I had just come up with almost a half-million dollars, and I had barely lifted a finger. It had been so easy and fast. Almost fun. I couldn't help feeling like a high roller, a sophisticated player who could lay his hands on big money at a moment's notice. Despite my nagging anxiety about the gamble that Patty and I were taking, I had whipped through the pile of loan documents in less than 45 minutes. 
 ***
 The icy slap of reality hit me two weeks after New Year's Day in January 2005. We had been living in our new house for five months. I walked out of The Times's Washington bureau, several blocks from the White House, and crossed Farragut Square to my bank. I had a bad feeling about what the A.T.M. would reveal about my balance, but I was shocked when I looked at the receipt: $196. We were broke. 
 My stomach churning, I reached Patty on her cellphone as she was running errands. ''We are out of money,'' I snapped, skipping over any warm-up chat. 
 ''What do you mean, we're out of money?'' she asked in bewilderment.
 ''I mean, I just checked my bank account, and we are out of money,'' I repeated, my voice rising in panic. ''We can't buy anything!''
 My next paycheck would come in about a day or so, but that was entirely reserved for the February mortgage payment. We didn't have enough cash to cover more than a week's worth of groceries and gasoline. For the last few months we were living off the cash left over after I sold my Times stock and we bought the house. But now it was gone.
 ''How the hell could we have run through so much money so quickly?'' I asked her accusingly.
 Patty wasn't sharing my shock. ''I don't know what's going on,'' she responded. ''Let's talk about it when you get home.''
 Patty had spent much of the two previous decades as a stay-at-home mother in Los Angeles. Her last full-time job, as an editor at a political research company, was back in the early 1980s. Not surprisingly, Patty's re-entry into the job market was bumpy. When Saks Fifth Avenue offered her a full-time job selling high-end clothing on commission -- something she knew about and loved -- she grabbed it. But with her take-home income averaging only about $2,400 a month, we didn't make enough to cover our bills because my take-home pay was going straight to the mortgage. We were spending way more than we were earning. 
 In the euphoria of moving in together, we both succumbed to magical thinking about ourselves, as well as about money. My fantasy was that Patty would become an ambitious go-getter. ''This can really be an exciting new chapter of your life,'' I kept telling her. Patty had a very different dream. ''I feel as if I am finally at home,'' she exclaimed as soon as we moved into the house. She could settle down and do the things she had always been best at: making a new home, nurturing her children and loving me. One way or another, she figured, we would earn enough money to make good on our glorious gamble.
 We had very different ideas about money. Patty spent little on herself, but she refused to scrimp on top-quality produce, Starbucks coffee, bottled juices, fresh cheeses and clothing for the children and for me. She regularly bought me new shirts and ties to replace the frayed and drab ones in my closet. She thought it wasn't worth agonizing over nickels and dimes. I was almost exactly the opposite. My answer to any money squeeze was to stop spending. I would skip lunch at work to save $7. If I arrived at the Metro just before the end of rush hour, I would wait for five minutes to save 50 cents on the fare. 
 We were both building up grudges. ''You can't keep second-guessing me,'' she told me angrily. ''It's small-minded and petty, and it's not very attractive.'' I was beginning to wonder whether she had any clue about how money worked. We were lurching from paycheck to paycheck, one big home repair away from disaster.
 Meanwhile, neither of us was paying attention to how easy our bank had made it to build up debt. The key was the overdraft protection -- more accurately described as ''bounced-check loans.'' Every time I overdrew my checking account by even a few dollars, the bank would tap my MasterCard for $100, helpfully deposit the cash in my account and charge me $10 for the privilege.
 Patty and I were now unwittingly tapping into our credit line at a terrifying pace: $5 overdrawn because of school supplies for Patty's daughter Emily -- $100 from the MasterCard. Fifteen bucks over because of gasoline? Another $100 from the MasterCard. Groceries for $305? No problem! Uncle MasterCard would front us $400.
 Our debt spiraled up faster than I had ever dreamed possible. Chase Bank had cold-called me to offer a ''platinum'' card with no interest charges for the first six months. I took them up on it and shifted $3,000 in debt from my old card onto the new Chase card. But instead of paying down the balance before the interest charges began, I let it balloon to $6,000. Chase had sent us blank checks that we could use to either pay bills or give ourselves cash advances. I dismissed them as a cheap trick to lure dimwits into borrowing more money. In March, I grabbed one of the checks and used it to pay down $1,000 on my more expensive credit card.
 ***
 I felt like a crack addict calling up my dealer. It was April 2006, and I had just reached Bob Andrews, our once and future mortgage broker, on his cellphone. 
 I was surprised at how glad I was to hear his voice. In his own way, Bob knew more about my messy life than almost anybody else. He never seemed judgmental or condescending. Instead, he seemed to think that money trouble and failed marriages were natural parts of life, even for good people with decent jobs. I felt relieved to have the chance to unload my problems and ask for his advice.
 ''Bob, we're dying over here,'' I wailed. ''I can't even explain how it happened, but we've got these unbelievable credit-card bills, and the minimum payments add up to almost $1,100 a month. There's no way we can keep that up.''
 I had months and months of credit-card bills spread across the dining-room table, and I quickly confessed the full horror of what they contained. We were approaching $50,000 in credit-card debt alone, and it was amazing how fast and how deeply we had dug ourselves in. It was even more amazing how long we had avoided the screaming evidence of a train wreck in the making.
 Patty had suddenly got the break that seemed to solve our problems. In November 2005, she was hired as a full-time editor at a nonprofit organization with a salary of $60,000 a year. The problem, I told Bob, was that things were so bad that even Patty's new job wouldn't be enough to rescue us. Chase was now charging us 13.99 percent on our platinum card, and the rate on our SunTrust card was up to 27 percent. 
 Between humongous loan balances and high rates, we had hung ourselves with the rope they gave us. In the previous December alone, we charged $2,845 on the Chase card for Christmas gifts, food, gasoline, clothing and other expenses. The charges included almost $350 for groceries, $700 in clothes from J. Crew, $179 at GapKids and $700 for airplane tickets for two of Patty's children to visit their father in Los Angeles. Our balance climbed from $14,118 to $17,135, and in January 2006 we maxed out at our $19,000 credit limit. And there were other expenses on other cards: $1,200 in dental work for Patty's son Ben; $1,600 to rent a beach house the previous year for us and all the children. Granted, the beach house was an embarrassing mistake. But given that Patty had landed a solid job, it seemed like an indulgence we could work off later.
 I felt foolish, ashamed and angry as I confessed to Bob. Why had I been trying to live a lifestyle that I couldn't afford? Why had I tried to keep up the image of a conventional suburban family man, when nothing about my situation was conventional? How could I have glossed over the fact that we had been spending about $3,000 more than we were earning, month after month after month? How could a person who wrote about economics for a living fall into the kind of credit-card trap that consumer groups had warned about for years?
 ''My inclination is to just raid my 401(k) account to pay off the cards,'' I told Bob. ''I know we'd be paying huge taxes and penalties for withdrawing money before retirement, but it's not as bad as paying all that interest to the banks.''
 ''No!'' Bob interrupted fiercely. ''You don't want to do that. You'll be paying a basic tax rate of 28 percent, and they'll hit you with another 10 percent penalty. You'd be giving up 40 percent in taxes. There's got to be a better way.''
 I gave Bob permission to pull a credit report on us, and by the next day, he had come up with a scheme that was either wickedly smart or proof that the big-money people had gone mad. Or both.
 ''What we're going to do is a two-step plan,'' he announced. ''The bad news is that your credit scores are down, so we can't just do a simple refinance. But the good news is that you've owned your house for a year and a half, and it's gone up in value. So you can borrow against the equity. So in the first step of the plan, we're going to get you a really ugly mortgage that is big enough to pay off all your credit cards.''
 ''O.K., I'm with you so far,'' I said uncertainly.
 ''Now, because this mortgage is really ugly, your monthly payments will jump to about $3,700. But don't worry about it, because you're only going to stay in it for about three months. Once we pay off your credit cards, your credit scores will go up and we can get you a cheaper loan.''
 The way Bob figured it, my monthly payment would be down to about $3,200 by the fall. The new mortgage would be nearly $700 more than my current mortgage because it would include all my credit-card debt, but it would be at least $500 a month less than the combined total of what I was paying on everything right then. And mortgage interest, unlike interest on credit-card debt, is entirely tax-deductible.
 The whole plan worked exactly as Bob had predicted. Within a few weeks, an appraiser valued our house at $505,000, almost 10 percent above the original purchase price two years earlier. On June 12, Patty and I signed a new mortgage for $472,000 with Fremont Investment and Loan in Santa Monica, Calif. 
 Fremont gave us a classic subprime loan. Our monthly payment jumped to $3,700 from $2,500. If we kept the mortgage for two years, the interest rate would jump as high as 11.5 percent, and the monthly payments would ratchet up to as high as $4,500. 
 The paperwork was so confusing that I was never exactly sure who was paying what. I hazily understood that I was paying most of the fees, one way or another, but I couldn't figure out how, and I couldn't see any better alternatives. After it was all over, I figured we had paid about $5,800 in fees to Bob's mortgage company and the settlement company, on top of the sales commission that came out in higher interest rates every month. But Patty and I paid off our credit cards, and my credit scores jumped. In October 2006, Bob refinanced us once again, and our payments dropped just as he had predicted.
 ***
 We were still loaded with debt, but we weren't paying 27 percent interest rates on our credit cards. Patty was earning a solid salary, and I was earning extra money working overtime at The Times. If we were careful, we could meet our monthly expenses, chip away at our debt and even go out to dinner once in a while.
 Our brief interlude of optimism and peace ended on Oct. 10, 2006, when Patty lost her job. ''Don't worry,'' she said bravely. ''This will not be like the first time I was looking for a job. I've learned so much since then, and I am going to find another job quickly.'' In the meantime, she said, she could collect unemployment for six months. She would also cash out her retirement account, which had about $7,000 in it.
 By any measure, the loss of Patty's job was a financial catastrophe. We hadn't yet gone more than 30 days delinquent on the mortgage, thanks, in part, to $15,000 I had borrowed shamefacedly from my mother after Patty stopped working. But we were behind on everything else. Bill collectors were calling six days a week, starting promptly at 8 a.m. ''Telemarketers,'' I would mumble when my son Matthew asked why we got so many robocalls from 800 numbers. Our stately little house looked increasingly trashy: peeling paint and broken screens on the front windows, crumbling concrete on the front stoop, a lawn that was mostly crabgrass. The furniture that Patty salvaged from her first marriage was falling apart. The cotton slipcovers on the sofa and armchair were in shreds. The frosted-crystal shade on a beloved Italian floor lamp was cracked. The dog had gnawed the leg on her Biedermeier chair.
 The panic attack hit me around 2 a.m. on Patty's birthday. It was Oct. 17, 2007, and I was lying in bed obsessing over bills that couldn't be postponed and the money we didn't have to pay them. Like many of my predawn fear cascades, this one had its start with a specific unpaid bill: $240 in traffic tickets -- $140 for speeding, $50 each for expired tags and inspection. The fines would double if we didn't pay them in less than a week. The tickets had uncorked the bottle on all the other ''must pays'': the $400 electric bill with the cutoff date printed in red; the $220 cable/telephone/Internet bill for the past two months; the MasterCard and American Express bills -- at least one of which had to be brought current or I wouldn't even be able to travel for work. And of course, there was the $3,271 mortgage payment.
 My panic circuitry was in fine form, connecting small debts to big ones, short-term problems to the bottomless abyss, private calamity to public shame. Once Patty was asleep and I was alone in the dark, the bottled-up fear reached the surface. I tossed from side to side, trying to figure out at least a triage plan for our bills. I was too fidgety to lie still in bed, but I was in no mood to actually sit down with the bills themselves. I climbed out of bed for a moment, then jumped back in. I couldn't decide if I would rather feel confined or all alone.
 Patty woke up, irritated by all my movement and my occasional moans of despair. ''What's the matter?'' she asked.
 ''I can't sleep,'' I answered. ''I'm panicking about money, because I don't know how we're going to pay all the bills that need to be paid right now.'' I wanted her to take me in her arms and reassure me that everything would be O.K. But that wasn't happening.
 ''There's nothing you can do about it right now,'' she answered sleepily.
 ''If this keeps on, we're going to lose the house,'' I persisted, sounding less panicked than petulant. If Patty wouldn't give me comfort, then I wanted her to suffer alongside me. ''I don't know how we're going to make it. We can't go on like this.''
 Patty had begged me to grant her a birthday reprieve from my nagging and kvetching over money issues. What I saw as an uncontrollable moment of panic, she saw as another deliberate attempt to browbeat her.
 ''I can't believe you are doing this to me on my birthday,'' she hissed in fury. ''All I asked for was one day of peace -- one day when you weren't beating me over the head. And here it is, not even daylight yet, and you're waking me up to berate me about money.''
 ''Son of a bitch, what did I do to you?'' I asked, punching my pillow in the dark. ''Do you think I enjoy having a panic attack? I can't help what I'm feeling. I'm just scared out of my mind.''
 ''That's it!'' Patty snapped, getting out of bed and pulling on her robe. ''I'm not going to listen to any more of this. I'm going to sleep downstairs.''
 In the morning, she let me have it.
 ''You lied to me,'' she told me as I got coffee. ''You said that what I saw on the outside was pretty much what you were. But you're completely different. If I had known what you were really like, I would never have come out here.''
 Patty and I were hurtling toward bottom. We had been under so much strain for so long that we were often at each other's throats, jeopardizing the love that brought us together in the first place. In November, four years after buying the house, we finally crossed our personal Rubicon and fell 30 days behind on our mortgage. 
 ''The last thing Chase wants is to foreclose on your home,'' JPMorgan Chase wrote us. It assured us that it wanted to ''help'' and was willing to evaluate us for a number of ''alternatives.'' If we didn't ''resolve'' our payment delinquency, it politely warned, ''you will lose your home.'' 
 ***
 I took a certain pride that I outlasted two of my three mortgage lenders. American Home, my original lender, collapsed overnight when the financial markets first froze up in August 2007. Fremont, my second lender, was forced out of the mortgage business by federal regulators. That left me with JPMorgan Chase, one of the few big banks smart enough to sell off most of the subprime loans it financed. It still serviced my loan, but it wasn't on the hook if I defaulted.
 By the time that Patty and I fell behind, the rest of the world was falling apart so fast that Chase barely had time for us. Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers were gone. American International Group, one of the world's biggest insurance conglomerates, received the biggest taxpayer-financed bailout in history. Citigroup was a zombie bank. All of them were brought down by the same mortgage madness that infected me.
 When I first called Chase in October, a representative named Sarah said I didn't qualify for a loan modification because I wasn't yet 90 days past due. The only ''loan modification'' she could offer me was a ''repayment plan'' under which I paid $400 more per month for six months until I was current again. 
 ''It sounds as if I would be better off waiting to fall 90 days behind,'' I said. ''I think I'll wait for that.''
 It took a while, but Patty and I found we could get past blaming each other. We had seen each other's worst sides, but we were still together, and that helped us to get closer. We started listening to each other. Patty began to find her way in the work world, and I was learning that I didn't have all the answers. And we saw how our children were thriving. My three sons transferred to schools in our neighborhood and made scores of friends. Emily, Patty's daughter, was a sparkling 10-year-old who loved her home and her school as well as all her brothers. Even if we lost the house, we had gained in other ways. 
 I called Chase back in January, when I was 90 days past due. Another representative told me that I would automatically be evaluated for a loan modification. 
 ''You should just wait until you hear from one of our negotiators,'' he told me politely. 
 Another two months passed without anyone calling, so I tried again in late March. 
 ''I'm sorry, but our analysts have been backed up,'' yet another Chase rep told me, even more politely than the previous one. She said each analyst had about 500 distressed borrowers to deal with, and it had been taking about five weeks for customers to get a direct response. The delays seemed to be getting longer. 
 I was actually beginning to feel sorry for Chase. It seemed to be so flooded with defaulting borrowers that it didn't have time to foreclose on my house. Eight months after my last payment to the bank, I am still waiting for the ax to fall. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Edmund L. Andrews, his wife, Patricia Barreiro, and her daughter, Emily, at their Silver Spring, Md., home.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY GILLIAN LAUB)(pg. MM46)
(pg. MM47)
 THE BORROWERS: The author, his wife and the never-ending stream of bills that divides them.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GILLIAN LAUB FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. MM51) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (86%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); CHILDREN (68%); MARRIAGE (61%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



597 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Travel Magazine; Pg. 118

LENGTH: 2694 words

HEADLINE: Dock Holiday

BYLINE: By MIMI SWARTZ

 BODY:
Some of the water in Lake Tahoe has been there as long as 700 years, a piece of information no less valuable for its appearance on a historical marker adjacent to the Fanny Bridge in Tahoe City, Calif. The view from here of the largest alpine lake in North America -- 22 miles long, 12 miles wide, straddling California and Nevada -- is kind of a twofer. On the one hand, there's the pine-framed glimpse of Tahoe's restless cobalt water as it meets the Truckee River's sparkling, complacent green; at the same time, there's a generous view of the Great American Backside, because so many tourists crowd in and bend over the bridge to watch the trout moseying upriver. This spot, known locally as ''the Y'' because Highways 89 and 28 meet here, is as good a place as any to consider the collision of old and new at Lake Tahoe, to observe this gloriously amenable haven's latest incarnation. 
 Summer has always been as popular as, if not more popular than, the Tahoe winters that draw skiers from all over the world. Wealthy families, mostly from Northern California, started building lakeside mansions as early as the late 19th century -- Mark Twain couldn't get enough of the place -- and once gambling was legalized by the State of Nevada in 1931, Tahoe's identity as a year-round destination was secured. The Squaw Valley ski resort hosted the Winter Olympics in 1960, and Frank Sinatra's purchase of the Cal Neva Lodge that same year added to the area's cachet. Tahoe cultivated its glamorous side, but it also welcomed the large cast of unknowns who were content simply to hike the Sierras, take in the lake and stay in the family motels that lined its beaches. The musty whiff of Sinatra's Rat Pack lingered, and the bars in nearby worker towns like Truckee, right off Interstate 80, were the kinds of places where you could wind up with a bloody nose just for looking crosswise at somebody. '' 'Scrappy' is putting it nicely,'' Kathleen Lee, a writer who vacationed near Truckee as a child in the '60s, told me. ''It was a dump.'' 
 Then came the Reagan era, when people who were richer than anyone could (then) imagine rediscovered the lake. They built outsize Craftsman bungalows and alpinish McMansions during the junk-bond boom -- Michael Milken moved in post-prison. The trend continued during the tech boom, the hedge-fund boom and the private-equity boom, until it began to look as if Tahoe might one day equal the Hamptons or Aspen as a summer destination. Despite the current economic downturn, a Ritz-Carlton is set to open here later this year, the Pharmacy boutique still offers an Advanced Enzyme Facial, and more and more local restaurateurs are offering ''sustainable cuisine.'' But the slowdown in development means that the place remains at a point where tourists who aren't zillionaires can still get away from it all and almost have it all -- maybe even for a while. 
 This is particularly true of once contentedly down-at-heels communities like Truckee and Tahoe City, on the northwest side of the lake. Thanks to a combination of forward-looking government officials and green antidevelopment locals, growth has been contained while amenities have increased. Tahoe City's modest Bridgetender Tavern and Grill has, for instance, moved across the river to a plusher venue, but it still serves burgers and tacos. Helmeted city boys on expensive mountain bikes share their lanes with locals on customized banana rides. The traffic in the summer backs up nearly a mile to the south of the Fanny Bridge, but there are no signs of any plans to widen the road. 
 Right now, in fact, Tahoe is as good as it gets, so good that it seems churlish to ask for more. But, of course, people do. 
 THERE IS SOMETHING ABOUT THE SIZE and beauty of Tahoe that inspires so many to make the 72-mile drive around the lake before doing anything else. One travel brochure called it the most beautiful drive in America, and it would be hard to argue the point. In summer, the water reflects the sky in every color from deep navy to an almost Caribbean turquoise, and the surrounding elevations change from lakeside -- already 6,000 or so feet above sea level -- to more than 10,000 feet. 
 But it's virtually impossible to make it all the way around in one trip because of the myriad distractions along the way. The lake offers everything from balloon rides to fine dining to paddle boarding to wake surfing. Then there are houses: the 80-year-old Scandinavian-style folly known as Vikingsholm in Emerald Bay, with its island teahouse; Fleur du Lac, the lakeside estate built by the industrial magnate Henry J. Kaiser in 1939 and used as Michael Corleone's house in ''The Godfather: Part II.'' It's now part of a gated community of multimillionaires visible only from the lake. Along with chain-saw art, there are eccentric museums, like the Emigrant Trail Museum (Donner Party dioramas) and the Tahoe Maritime Museum. And of course, there are the casinos: Harrah's, Harveys and the former Caesars, reborn as the MontBleu Resort Casino & Spa, as well as Sinatra's Cal Neva. 
 What a trip around the lake really shows is how Balkanized the place is. As one Truckee resident told me with a wrinkled nose, ''We on the north side always refer to the south side as the Dark Side.'' Once you get clarity on the regional biases, and once you make peace with your own, Tahoe becomes entirely manageable. It breaks down this way: outdoor lovers, including those who might want a four-star dinner after a day hiking the Tahoe Rim Trail, gravitate toward the northwest and northeast parts of the lake. The eastern side of Tahoe is, in fact, almost entirely protected by a state park and national forest, and has some of the most beautiful beaches this side of the Caymans. In contrast, the south end of the lake is for those who like their Vegas with water. 
 The three-year-old Cedar House Sport Hotel in Truckee, which was built mostly with green materials, fits perfectly into Tahoe's new ethos. Despite the fact that it backs up to a trailer park, the place provides luxury linens, flat-screen TVs and spa products. The owners, Jeff and Patty Baird, will also provide guests with personalized hiking itineraries. 
 So with one page of printed instructions, half a bottle of water and no small amount of encouragement from Patty, my husband and I set out on a recommended hike to a spot above Squaw Valley called Shirley Lake. (I want to note here that Patty hikes at least five miles a day; she said the two-and-a-half-mile walk to Shirley Lake would be of ''moderate'' difficulty.) We drove to Squaw Valley and set out for the woods, falling in behind families with chirping toddlers and couples of a certain age or even older. The sun was bright, the mountain air pristine. The path followed a rushing stream. We smiled indulgently at some fellow hikers who turned back after a mile or so. One man wore a goose-egg-size G.P.S. on his wrist, which seemed silly at the time. 
 As we climbed higher, colors sharpened -- the granite rocks bleached white by the sun, the violet lupines pushing beyond the tall green grass, the dark bark of fallen pines -- and the terrain shifted, shady woods giving way to wildflower fields leading to steep, rocky inclines. But Shirley Lake itself seemed oddly elusive. ''How much farther?'' we asked travelers who passed us on their way down. ''About 45 more minutes,'' was the answer. It was still the answer after we had walked for 30 minutes, then an hour, then an hour and a half. ''That blue-paint guy sort of fell down on the job,'' my husband remarked anxiously, as we noted that the painted markers on rocks and trees were disappearing. (''The trail can be difficult to see in some areas,'' I noted as I read the Cedar House instruction sheet and paused for a sip of my dwindling water supply.) 
 The views from this elevation were stunning but telling. This was the same majestic, unyielding terrain that made the first crossings of this country so daunting. (''What do you do here in winter if you don't ski?'' I asked a waitress at Squeeze In, a Truckee restaurant. ''Shovel,'' she answered.) It was, of course, this land that in winter caused more than a few surviving members of the Donner Party to behave in ways that haunted them for the rest of their lives. 
 The Emigrant Trail Museum outside Truckee tells the story: Following the suggestion of an unscrupulous land promoter, this group of Midwestern immigrants lost precious weeks attempting a shortcut on their way to California in 1846. By the time they reached the Sierra Nevadas, an early snow was falling, their food supply was low, and their passage through what later came to be known as Donner Pass was blocked. (Nearby Donner Lake, my husband noted, ''looks like a beautiful place to starve to death.'') Faced with certain starvation and uncertain rescue, various members of the group resorted to eating their dead and possibly even murdering some of their fellow travelers. The museum provides a harrowing film account of the tragedy as well as a replica of a covered wagon, and the usual lost buttons, pottery shards, eyeglasses and children's toys. ''Never take no cutoffs and hurry along as fast as you can,'' one of the survivors, Virginia Reed, later wrote to a friend, and the words could still apply today. 
 By the time we reached Shirley Lake, the sun had begun to sink in the sky. A few swimmers relaxed on a small deck -- they'd passed us on the path -- while a man tossed a stick into the water for his dogs. His companion chatted on his cellphone, pleased with the reception. He casually offered his mate an apple, and I thought he might offer us one. He didn't, maybe because he, too, had studied the Donner Party. (When I asked a museum employee why some members survived when others perished, he looked at me blankly and explained, ''They had the food.'') 
 We were hungry and tired when we girded ourselves for the last mile and a half of our hike, which turned out to be a very steep incline. (We discovered later that it serves as a ski slope in winter.) The summit, a rolling meadow of wildflowers, caught me up short. ''Look!'' I said, as if you could do anything but. Lake Tahoe lazed far, far below us, a shimmering, impassive stripe of deep blue. We then followed the path back to civilization, to the Squaw Valley High Camp, where we jumped into a cable car, descending in the blink of an eye the steep 2,000 feet we had just climbed.
 THE NORTHERN END OF LAKE TAHOE may seem an unlikely place to contemplate the the region's level of sophistication -- T-shirts and infinite variations on cargo pants are the summer ensemble of choice -- but the calculus changes if you know that the Cal Neva is here. Or what is left of it. The resort was built in 1926 by a San Francisco real estate developer, who borrowed its log-cabin design from a Broadway stage set. Initially a getaway for stars and socialites, it burned to the ground in 1937, was rebuilt, and then, in the '40s and '50s, developed a shadier allure, run by men with names like Bones and Wingy. This situation either ended or culminated in 1960 with the purchase of the place by Sinatra and several partners. Sinatra wanted a musical showplace, not just for Dino, Sammy and Peter but also for the likes of Lena Horne, Judy Garland and Ella Fitzgerald. For celebrity guests like Marilyn Monroe and the Kennedys, Sinatra installed a helipad, as well as secret tunnels that led, not coincidentally, to choice spots like Monroe's bungalow. (The hotel still gives tours of the tunnels.) 
 To a staid resort, where old families handed down houses from generation to generation, there now came lush women in satin gowns and Scotch-drinking wiseguys. Then one night in 1963 Sinatra hosted the mobster Sam Giancana, and it cost him his gaming license. Sinatra sold out, and the hotel lost a significant amount of luster, which has never been restored. Most of the guests, in T-shirts and jeans, seem oblivious to the history of the place, though there are those who still come to the Cal Neva for retro weddings on the lake. I found myself hoping that the new owners would do some sort of ''Mad Men'' renovation to the place. 
 Today, Claudia Tatum, a middle-aged emigre from Southern California, provides the northern end's glamour quotient. Her hydralike empire (she has seven properties so far) has made her a figure of some controversy in Truckee. She has renovated downtown storefronts and installed the likes of Piper's Patisserie, a wine bar/art gallery and two shops (the Pharmacy and Jordan's at the Truckee Mercantile) that carry the kind of goods more frequently found on Madison Avenue: $37 sunscreen, Cosabella lingerie, European labels. Patrician couples, the kind who are fit but weathered from all that sailing, used to stay away; now they window-shop alongside crunchy backpackers. 
 The combination makes for a jolly, egalitarian crowd that waits in line in the early mornings for one of the 62 omelets offered at Squeeze In (e.g., fried bananas with honey and cinnamon) or crowds into one of the rowdy bars on Donner Pass Road once the sun is down. The perfect balance of old and new, though, can be found at Moody's Bistro & Lounge, the restaurant just beside the old Truckee Hotel. Moody's has a honky-tonk feel up front -- darkly paneled bar, cozy booths, live music -- while the slightly more formal restaurant in back features dishes prepared by an award-winning chef and a wine list that quotes Rumi. 
 Next to our table, there was a handsome couple with two preteenage girls who looked snug in their end-of-the-summer Gap sweatshirts. They were tucking into McDonald's Happy Meals, mixing that dinner with some fettucine that the kitchen had made especially for them. Maybe next year they'd be able to give up their fast food for the restaurant's glorious fare, but if not, there was always the year after or the year after that. Tahoe has time for everyone. MIMI SWARTZ
 ESSENTIALS LAKE TAHOE
 HOTELS The Cedar House Sport Hotel An American green ethos meets European hospitality. 10918 Brockway Road, Truckee, Calif.; (530) 582-5655; cedarhousesporthotel.com; doubles from $170. The Cottage Inn W.P.A.-style accommodations near the lake. 1690 West Lake Boulevard, Tahoe City, Calif.; (530) 581-4073; thecottageinn.com; doubles from $158. Hyatt Regency Lake Tahoe Resort, Spa & Casino All-purpose resort: casino, spa, sand beach. 111 Country Club Drive, Incline Village, Nev.; (775) 832-1234; hyatt.com; doubles from $265. West Shore Cafe and Inn Right on the lake, with arguably the best restaurant in the area. 5160 West Lake Boulevard, Homewood, Calif.; (530) 525-5200; westshorecafe.com; doubles from $300; entrees $30 to $45.
 RESTAURANTS Jake's on the Lake Family dining and great people watching. 780 North Lake Boulevard, Tahoe City; (530) 583-0188; jakestahoe.com; entrees $14 to $33. Moody's Bistro & Lounge Laid-back, with sustainable California cuisine. 10007 Bridge Street, Truckee; (530) 587-8688; moodysbistro.com; entrees $16 to $32. Squeeze In Sixty-two omelets and long lines. 10060 Donner Pass Road, Truckee; (530) 587-9814; squeezein.com; entrees $10 to $17. 
 SHOPs Granite Chief Hiking and skiing equipment, as well as great books on the region. 11368 Donner Pass Road, Truckee; (530) 587-2809; granitechief.com. Jordan's at the Truckee Mercantile Designer labels. 10052 Donner Pass Road, Truckee; (530) 582-1252. The Pharmacy Lingerie, imported linens, creams and spa treatments. 10072 Donner Pass Road, Truckee; (530) 582-1668.
 SITES AND ACTIVITIES Ballooning Mountain High Balloons, Truckee; (530) 587-6922. Bike rentals/mountain biking Northstar-at-Tahoe Resort, 100 Northstar Drive, Truckee; (800) 466-6784; laketahoemountainbiking.com. The Flume Trail, Highway 28, Glenbrook, Nev.; (775) 749-5349; theflumetrail.com. River rafting Truckee River Raft Company, 185 River Road/Highway 89, Tahoe City; (530) 583-0123; truckeeriverraft.com. Rock climbing Alpine Skills International, 11400 Donner Pass Road, Truckee; (530) 582-9170; alpineskills.com. Vikingsholm A grand home open to the public. Emerald Bay, Calif.; (530) 525-7232. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WATER'S EDGE: From left: the Cedar House Sport Hotel in Truckee, Calif.
Sand Harbor on the east side of Lake Tahoe
the Pharmacy in downtown Truckee, which sells high-end beauty products and clothes. Previous spread: a boathouse on the northern end of the lake. (pg.M2 120)
TRUNK SHOW: Left: the Celebrity Showroom at the Cal Neva resort on the northern end of the lake. Below: a park ranger at the Vikingsholm estate in Emerald Bay State Park.
BRIDGING THE GAP: Top left: a wedding planner at the Cal Neva resort, once frequented by the likes of Marilyn Monroe and the Kennedys. Bottom left: the Fanny Bridge in Tahoe City, Calif., a popular tourist attraction. (pg.M2 121)
 IN THE DEEP: A view of the southern end of Lake Tahoe, the largest alpine lake in North America. (pg.M2 123) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEFAN RUIZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAKES (90%); SKIING (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); HISTORIC SITES (72%); FAMILY (71%); WINTER SPORTS (71%); RESORTS (70%); WINTER OLYMPICS (66%); SKIING FACILITIES (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); OLYMPICS (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (61%); TRENDS (61%); PRIVATE EQUITY (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL MILKEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); NEVADA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



598 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1449 words

HEADLINE: A Past Sound, Firmly in the Present

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

DATELINE: NASHVILLE 

 BODY:
 Even in midafternoon repose there's a lost-in-time quality to the Station Inn, a low-ceilinged dive here with bluegrass posters on the walls, ringed by shiny new condos in a suddenly fashionable neighborhood just southwest of downtown called the Gulch.
 But at night, in what used to be a grungy industrial zone, the ghosts still rule. Most of the music is bluegrass, but there's a gloriously tacky sendup of a washed-up country duo, ''The Doyle & Debbie Show,'' on Tuesdays. And on random nights you never know -- the soul-bluegrass of the Steeldrivers or Mike Farris's gospel-soul review, all smoking brass and church-choir hollers that could make the faded posters of Bill Monroe and Flatt and Scruggs climb off the walls and dance. 
 Still, the quintessential Station Inn experience, and in a completely unlikely way the talk of the town, is the inspired flight of necromancy that plays out every Monday night when the Time Jumpers hold court. 
 The Time Jumpers aren't likely to displace Taylor Swift. They're 11 musicians -- 3 fiddlers, 2 guitarists, 2 female singers, an accordionist, sundry others -- with the mismatched, 50-something look of a softball team for a trucking-parts company. They play music, mostly the Bob Wills and Spade Cooley brand of western swing, that evolved during the Depression and has all but disappeared. They began a decade ago as Nashville's version of a garage band hatched by ace session guys playing for fun in Dressing Room 6, backstage at the Grand Ole Opry. They fit no known definition of either hot or cool. 
 ''If you look up What Not to Do in the dictionary, there would be our picture,'' said Kenny Sears, one of the fiddlers, who played classical violin as a child and has worked with country legends like Webb Pierce, Mel Tillis and Ray Price. ''We're Music Row's nightmare.''
 Their name comes from a musician's joke about blowing a beat, and whatever time jumping that transpires is definitely backward to the Western swing of the 1930s and '40s, and the standards, shuffles and hard country of the '50s and '60s. But as the engines of the Nashville music machine sputter and cough -- labels consolidating, session work disappearing, recording studios closing -- maybe the Time Jumpers aren't entirely about the past.
 In a place full of great musicians, where even the music writer for The Tennessean, Peter Cooper, has a widely admired record, this band draws a crowd because many of them are the best players in town.
 The steel-guitar player Paul Franklin, who joined the group after the 2007 death of the previous steel guitarist, John Hughey, may be the most in-demand session player in Nashville. Besides playing with every country act out there, he has toured with Dire Straits and performed with down-home Nashville types like Megadeth, Sting and Barbra Streisand. The bass player, Dennis Crouch, is part of the Alison Krauss and Robert Plant project, and has played with Elvis Costello, Johnny Cash, Steve Earle and Ralph Stanley. 
 Aubrey Haynie, the youngest of the three fiddle players, ranks with Mr. Franklin at the top of the short list of the virtuoso studio musicians, those still doing double-scale sessions amid the recession. One of the singers, Carolyn Martin, gravitates toward jazz and swing. The other, Dawn Sears (wife of Mr. Sears), does more of the shuffles and hard country.
 Even the backups, who step in on the nights when someone is busy, are pretty fair. If either of the two guitarists, Doug Green and Andy Reiss, isn't around, their fill-in is usually Vince Gill, one of the most successful Nashville musicians of the past two decades.
 ''I just love the music and the authenticity of it,'' Mr. Gill said. ''It's what I cut my teeth on growing up in Oklahoma. This isn't a bunch of kids being retro. It's people who really honor and respect the kind of music you used to hear all the time in Texas or Oklahoma or those great old ballrooms throughout the Midwest. For me it's like a drink of water from home.''
 Part of the appeal is the style of music, a cousin of big band swing. It's like Duke Ellington or Count Basie with a twang, dominated by violins and steel guitar instead of horns. Part is the sheer proficiency of the players and the improvisational atmospherics that feel more like a New York jazz club. Part is the Spaceship Nashville aura inside the Station Inn, with its mix of musicians, Japanese tourists, college students and locals, and its pizza, nachos and refrigerator covered with bluegrass bumper stickers and full of beer. 
 And if it's not for all tastes, the real trick is the musical alchemy -- George Gershwin and Ira Gershwin's ''Embraceable You,'' ''Caravan'' (made famous by Ellington), Bob Wills, and Hank Williams -- not cover-band curios but a mix of careful arranging and pell-mell improvising that takes something old and makes it new. 
 The players began doing this just for recreation and therapy, with zero expectations that they'd ever make much more than gas money for the night.
 ''I didn't want any money, I was just doing it for fun,'' said Mr. Green, also known as Ranger Doug, leader of the cowboy music band Riders in the Sky and a respected musicologist. ''And after eight months they said: 'This is ridiculous. You're in the band. We'll split the money with you.' Not that there was much at first. There were nights when we outnumbered the audience, Monday nights in December when the weather's bad and there's football on, and the score is Band 11-Audience 9.''
 But the word eventually got out and now almost anyone can be there either listening or performing -- Dolly Parton, Ms. Krauss and Mr. Plant, Bonnie Raitt, Norah Jones, Jimmy Buffett, Reba McEntire, all the Opry regulars. There are no reservations. Admission is $10. People usually start showing up around 8, the band goes on at 9. The place seats about 175, stands a few more and usually sells out.
 After a decade at the Station Inn the Time Jumpers do better than the $25 in gas money each member took home in the old days, but it's hardly a living. Still, in their unbuzzed way, the Time Jumpers have over the past few years created some buzz. 
 Despite not having a record deal they were nominated for two Grammys last year for their album ''Jumpin' Time,'' culled from Station Inn performances. Excerpts from the DVD they put together from the same performances have been shown on more than 125 public television stations. They tour every now and then, though coordinating the schedules of 11 working musicians with other gigs can be problematic. It's clear that some are more interested than others in trying to expand and tour in a big way. No one expects to become the next U2 or Keith Urban. But becoming a niche success -- something like Nashville's answer to the Buena Vista Social Club? Who knows?
 And despite their evocations of distant eras, in some ways the Time Jumpers are oddly in tune with the present. In Nashville, forever navigating the tension between the traditional and the contemporary, they're part of a resurgence of live music that has made the local music scene more vital than it's been in years. 
 ''For the longest time the live music scene in Nashville wasn't as good as it should have been,'' Mr. Gill said. ''Everyone was focused on trying to make records. Now a lot of musicians are more focused on playing live, and I think Austin showed Nashville what a great live music town Nashville could be. Now it's pretty lit up around here.''
 At the height of the Garth-Faith-Shania era, when labels were signing acts like crazy, this stuff would have seemed utterly hopeless. Now no one really knows what works. One approach is to give music away online and hope you can build a following for live performances. And since no one is quite sure what will succeed, some musicians figure they can do as well playing what they love as they would playing whatever is the flavor of the moment. 
 So Mr. Franklin said he does not think the country is likely to embrace western swing and turn the Time Jumpers into pop stars and sex symbols. But he does think that in their small, idiosyncratic way they are a window onto the way bad times can produce opportunities for musicians in Nashville and beyond. 
 ''I think this is a great time for music,'' Mr. Franklin said. ''There was a time when anything that didn't fit in the narrow framework of radio couldn't find a home. Now more people are playing live, people feel they can be more adventurous. Look at what's on YouTube. People want something different, they want something visual in the way you have to see this band to understand what it's about. We're the wave of the future.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The steel guitarist Paul Franklin, above right, with the fiddler Aubrey Haynie and other members of the Time Jumpers, at the Station Inn in Nashville. At left, Doug Green is one of the band's guitarists. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.AR27)
 The Station Inn, bottom left, is a remnant of the former industrial zone that has given way to new high rises in the trendy Nashville neighborhood the Gulch. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.AR28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTRY MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC REVIEWS (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (72%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (71%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (71%); SOFTBALL (65%); GREAT DEPRESSION (64%)

PERSON: TAYLOR SWIFT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (95%) TENNESSEE, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



599 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: The Housing Crisis: Getting a Ground-Level View

BYLINE: By JANET ROBERTS

 BODY:
With anecdotal evidence suggesting the number of foreclosures was mounting in the New York metropolitan area, The New York Times set out to try to quantify the extent of the problem -- not just from a regional or county-level view, but down to the street level.
 After acquiring data that included the property addresses of more than 182,000 homes in foreclosure from January 2005 through August 2008, The Times used mapping software to plot the foreclosed properties and then computed the percentage of residential properties in foreclosure at various geographic levels. 
 Over all, the analysis of the data found a regionwide crisis rooted most strikingly in black and Hispanic neighborhoods, where foreclosure rates are soaring and homeowners are four times as likely to hold expensive subprime mortgages than whites with similar incomes. 
 Because borrowers sometimes go into default more than once, multiple foreclosure filings existed for about 17 percent of the properties. The Times eliminated these duplicate filings from its rate calculations, counting each property once. Also eliminated were thousands of records representing liens filed by homeowners' associations, contractors, taxing authorities and others to collect on debts unrelated to home mortgages. Because it was impossible to identify all of these debts, it is likely that some remain in the data, slightly inflating the counts of properties in foreclosure.
 The foreclosure crisis is closely tied to the large numbers of high-cost mortgage loans written from 2005 to 2007, so the newspaper also analyzed national mortgage lending data collected for those years under the terms of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act. All banks, credit unions and savings and loans with assets of more than $33 million and offices in metropolitan areas are required to report mortgage application data to the federal government.
 From this data, The Times counted conventional and high-cost loans granted to borrowers buying one- to four-family nonmanufactured homes that they intended to occupy. The newspaper defined high-cost loans as primary-lien mortgages with an interest rate at least three points more than comparable treasury bonds or secondary liens with a rate at least five points more than comparable bonds.
 The Times categorized borrowers by race and income. For mortgages with more than one applicant, the race of the first applicant was used. In assigning income categories, The Times compared applicant income to the median family income, published by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, in the borrower's metropolitan statistical area. Borrowing from research published by Thomas M. Shapiro, director of the Institute on Assets and Social Policy at Brandeis University, The Times assigned income categories as follows:
 Low income: less than 50 percent of the HUD median.
 Moderate income: 50 percent to 80 percent of the HUD median.
 Middle income: 80 percent to 120 percent of the HUD median.
 High income: 120 percent to 200 percent of the HUD median.
 Highest income: more than 200 percent of the HUD median.
 References to ''upper income'' groups in the articles combine the high- and highest-income borrowers.
 A third level of analysis relied on mortgage delinquency data from First American CoreLogic, which compiles loan performance data from the nation's largest servicers and from all Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac primary-lien outstanding loans. The company, which estimates that its database covers 85 percent of all residential mortgage loans nationwide, provided data from January 2005 through March 2009. Data from February and March 2009 are preliminary. First American estimates that 20 percent of the data from those months has not yet been collected.
 No one company or government agency had or was willing to provide complete address-level foreclosure records for the region surrounding New York City, so The Times acquired and standardized address-level data from the following sources:
 New York City: PropertyShark provided records of lis pendens filed by lenders. A lis pendens document, filed with the property deed, notifies the public that a foreclosure action is pending. The Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University provided residential building counts, which The Times used to compute the default rate for the city's census tracts and community districts. Because there are no public records of foreclosures involving cooperative apartments, co-ops were excluded from the analysis. The Furman Center estimates that co-ops make up one-third of the city's mortgageable residential properties.
 Long Island and Westchester County: The Long Island Real Estate Report provided lis pendens and auction sales data for Nassau and Suffolk Counties. For Westchester, the newspaper acquired lis pendens data from the county clerk. The Westchester clerk's office could not provide address-specific data for 2005, so Westchester was omitted from any regional rate calculations that covered the full 44 months of foreclosure activity analyzed. In comparing Westchester with the rest of the region, The Times computed multiyear rates covering January 2006 through August 2008. For its rate calculations in all three counties, the newspaper used residential building counts that it generated by using mapping software to plot property addresses from the tax assessment rolls.
 Connecticut: The Warren Group provided lis pendens records, auction sales data and residential building counts for Fairfield, Hartford, Litchfield and New Haven Counties.
 New Jersey: American Foreclosures, publishers of NJLisPendens.com, provided foreclosure records, which the company compiled from court documents filed when lenders initiated foreclosure actions. Western Technologies Group provided residential property data, which The Times used to generate residential building counts for all New Jersey census tracts and ZIP codes.
 JANET ROBERTS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); CITIES (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (74%); BONDS (74%); FAMILY (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); FAIR LENDING (74%); SAVINGS & LOANS (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%); CREDIT UNIONS (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); CREDIT REGULATION (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); TAX AUTHORITIES (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009



600 of 1062 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 17, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: New to Home Ownership, and Delinquent

BYLINE: By JEFFERY C. MAYS

DATELINE: WILLINGBORO 

 BODY:
 AS soon as she saw the colonial-style home advertised for sale in the pages of a supermarket shopper, Natalie Chong knew that was where she wanted to live.
 The 41-year-old single mother of two teenagers was living in Montclair in a two-bedroom apartment in 2006 and looking to give her children their own space. Three-bedroom apartments in her area were renting for $1,500 to $1,800 a month, and there were not many houses in her price range in the surrounding communities of Bloomfield, Belleville and Nutley. 
 The four-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath house in Willingboro, a largely African-American suburb outside Philadelphia, looked like the perfect solution. Willingboro was one of the planned Levittown communities in the 1950s, and African-Americans were originally barred before lawsuits and the threat of government action led to the desegregation of the community. Today, the township is 67 percent African-American. 
 ''I wanted to buy a house so I could own something and have something to leave for my kids,'' said Ms. Chong, a Jamaican immigrant who works as a mechanic and driver for United Parcel Service. The advertisements said she could buy the house for a monthly cost of $1,800. ''If I'm going to pay $1,800 for an apartment, why not just own my own place? You think that will be the total cost.''
 It wasn't. New to homeownership, Ms. Chong did not take into account closing costs, insurance and taxes, which pushed the final cost of the home to $250,000. After taking $12,000 out of her 401(k) as a down payment, she still needed a $239,000 loan. And then, a mortgage company that her real estate broker recommended told her that an adjustable rate mortgage with an interest rate of 8.9 percent was her best option. The loan rate was set to readjust in two years.
 ''The whole idea was that I would pay good for two years and then refinance,'' Ms. Chong said.
 For two years Ms. Chong paid her $2,351 mortgage on time, even though it was a stretch. In the winter, she fell behind a bit with the electricity bill, planning to catch up in the summer. The telephone stayed on as long as she paid a portion of the bill each month. Her two children wore uniforms at their new school, so the clothing budget was minimal.
 After two years, her interest rate increased to 9.25 percent. A property tax increase pushed her monthly payment to $2,500. When she tried to refinance, the credit markets had begun their collapse. Ms. Chong also saw her income drop by 40 percent after she injured her back and began receiving workers' compensation. All those years of lifting heavy parts and bouncing around in tractor-trailers had taken their toll. In January Ms. Chong had several disks in her back fused and eight metal screws inserted. 
 She missed her first payment in August 2008, then in September and October. In November 2008 she dipped into her 401(k) again for $9,000, but without her full income, was soon in trouble again. Her requests for a lower interest rate from her lender went nowhere. She received two foreclosure notices and began to prepare her children for the possibility that they might have to move. That was when she called Affordable Homes of Millville Ecumenical, an agency partnered with the New Jersey Housing and Mortgage Finance Agency and trained in foreclosure prevention and counseling.
 Karen Bernhardt, the counselor who is trying to renegotiate the mortgage payment for Ms. Chong, said she is typical of many of her clients. ''Most people that walk into my office have not read their mortgage documents and don't understand it,'' Ms. Bernhardt said. ''They truly wanted to be homeowners and were talked into extending their credit to unrealistic limits. We are a very trusting society when it comes to these matters.''
 With her back healing, Ms. Chong hopes to be back to full-time work in the next few months. She regrets not seeking help earlier and not researching the costs of home ownership.
 ''If I lose this I'll have to start from the bottom,'' Ms. Chong said. ''My retirement money is gone. By the time I get to the point I can own again I'll be 70. This is why I'm fighting so hard.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: STRUGGLING: Natalie Chong's four-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath house in Willingboro.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); UTILITY RATES (75%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (73%); US 401K PLANS (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING (69%); BUDGETS (69%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (68%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (67%); MORTGAGE RATES (67%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (67%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (64%); TAX LAW (64%); SINGLE PARENTS (57%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (55%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (55%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2009

 
