

201 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: SLOWING ECONOMY FORCES GOVERNORS TO TRIM BUDGETS 

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
With a swiftness that has taken many governors by surprise, the slowing economy has sharply reduced state tax revenues in the last few weeks, forcing a growing number of states around the South and Midwest to cut their budgets for the first time in a decade.
 As many as 15 states that depend on sales and manufacturing taxes are suddenly facing spending cuts of up to 15 percent, producing the first reductions in education and health care programs in years. Coming at the same time as a steep increase in Medicaid costs, the budget reversals mean that the days of bold new programs and tax cuts are over in many states. 
 "We had a couple-hundred-million-dollar surplus last year, and now it's dried up and we're cutting state government by 15 percent," Gov. Jim Hodges of South Carolina said today in an interview. "It happened so fast that most of our state agencies are still in denial -- they don't think they can do it. But a lot of other states are going through the same thing, and when the economy slows down, it eventually happens to everyone." 
Tax revenues in South Carolina have fallen $513 million short of projections for the current fiscal year. North Carolina is facing a $740 million budget deficit, and its new governor, Mike Easley, announced on Tuesday that he would probably declare a fiscal emergency in order to gain latitude for widespread spending cuts.
Missouri's budget is $307 million short, Iowa has a $140 million gap, and Kansas is weighing a series of spending cuts. On Monday, Michigan's state agencies were told by Gov. John Engler to cut half a percent out of their budgets, the state's first reductions in nearly a decade. By contrast, revenue collections in the New York metropolitan area are still growing, if more slowly, although in Connecticut, Gov. John G. Rowland has warned that spending cuts may be needed this year.
Circumstances differ in each state, but for the most part the reductions are caused by lower-than-expected sales tax revenue in December and January, reflecting reduced holiday spending by consumers. So far, the federal government and states that depend on income and property taxes have yet to feel the pinch, and in fact only a week ago the Congressional Budget Office increased its estimate of the nation's budget surplus by an additional $1 trillion. 
But if the slowdown produces widespread layoffs, experts say, income tax revenues will inevitably fall too. 
Many of the states in the South rely heavily on sales taxes, like Tennessee, where the sales tax brings in 57 percent of all revenues. Tennessee's sales tax collections in December were $27.4 million lower than in the previous December, and the state is now facing a deficit of at least $130 million. Secretary of State Riley Darnell said two weeks ago that the deficit reflects "a recession in Tennessee."
The public education budget in Mississippi was cut by 3 percent last week after Gov. Ronnie Musgrove announced a $250 million shortfall, and Gov. Don Siegelman of Alabama cut his education budget by more than 6 percent after revenues fell $266 million short, the first such cut since 1991. Last week, six inmates escaped from an Alabama maximum-security prison where a guard tower was unmanned because of budget problems.
States that rely on manufacturing, such as Michigan and North Carolina, have also been harder hit than those in the Northeast with service-oriented economies, said Arturo Perez, a budget specialist with the National Conference of State Legislatures in Denver. Energy-producing states in the West have benefited from the recent price increases in natural gas and oil, which they tax, but cuts are likely to emerge in the Northwest.
In Oregon last month, Gov. John Kitzhaber told the opening session of the Legislature that balancing the budget would be "more difficult than it has been in a decade," and budget analysts predicted that revenues would fall $700 million short of spending, much of which is because of a tax cut passed by voters in November.
"Anyone who was elected after 1992 has never really had to cut a budget," Mr. Kitzhaber told the legislators, but this year, there will likely be cuts in social-service and law-enforcement spending. In Washington State, which still has a surplus, Gov. Gary Locke has proposed cuts of $236 million in this year's budget to prepare for reductions in revenue when they come.
What is most remarkable about the turnaround is how quickly it seems to have occurred. On Jan. 4, the National Conference of State Legislatures issued a report on the fiscal prospects for the states that was almost entirely rosy, with only six states considered likely to have budget problems. But in the month since then, said Mr. Perez, so many more states have reported revenue problems after the December tax receipts came in that the organization is now considering issuing a revised report with a far less positive outlook.
"Last June, states reported their highest year-end balances in 20 years," said Mr. Perez, who prepared the report. "But things have definitely changed since then. The softness in the economy is bringing out the weakness in many state budgets."
A growing number of states have come to recognize that their reliance on sales taxes leaves them vulnerable precisely at moments like this, when a decline in consumer spending is the harbinger of a slowdown, and they have tried to base more of their budget on more stable personal income and property taxes. In 1998, for the first time, the amount that states collected from personal income taxes exceeded that of sales taxes, 34 percent compared to 32 percent, Mr. Perez said.
Personal income taxes tend not to decline until layoffs occur, and unemployment has not been widespread. But some states have become reliant on taxing the capital gains income of investors during the recent bull market, and will have to struggle now that the stock market is turning downward. That is a major reason North Carolina's collection of income taxes is $174 million below last year's projections, said Robert Powell, the state's deputy budget officer.
North Carolina has been particularly hard hit. Not only is it facing a shortfall in estimated tax revenue of more than $500 million, but its Medicaid costs have soared by more than $108 million, and it was forced to pay $60 million last year in a court judgment over taxation of car financing companies. It is still hurting from the $800 million in economic damage inflicted by Hurricane Floyd in 1999.
Governor Easley has already frozen hiring and most state construction projects, and budget officials say he now contemplating more drastic measures. Declaring a fiscal emergency -- the first in North Carolina since 1991 -- would allow him to dip into pension funds and other reserves to balance this year's budget. Like that of most states, North Carolina's budget is required by state law to be in balance, and the governor has to cut spending once official estimates of revenues show a shortfall.
"These are the cuts that are going to be very difficult," Mr. Easley told the state's top officials on Tuesday. "We've made the easy cuts and the hard cuts already."
Many states are spending increasingly large amounts on their share of Medicaid spending, which reflects an increasing number of poor people in the program and higher costs of drugs and managed care, said Raymond C. Scheppach, executive director of the National Governors Association. Texas was planning to have a billion-dollar surplus over the next two years, but within the last two weeks, legislators were told that Medicaid spending would grow more than $700 million during that period, wiping out most of the projected surplus.
Mr. Scheppach said that most states are in a somewhat better position than they were a decade ago, because the boom years allowed them to build up reserve funds that they can now draw on, although the rules for doing so differ in each state.
Many legislators say the downturn has now taken some of the fun out of governing. Through most of the 1990's, lawmakers could remain popular with their constituents by signing on to new spending programs and tax cuts. But as legislative sessions begin this year, the mood in many chambers is increasingly grim.
"I've been through this before, but we've got a lot of new faces here who don't know what this is like," said Richard Lindsey, chairman of the Ways and Means Education Committee in the Alabama House, which is contemplating cutting school repair funds and after-school programs, and possibly laying off employees. "Now everyone realizes we were elected to make some tough decisions."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Several states have recently had to cut their budgets sharply. Gov. Donald Siegelman of Alabama, shown delivering his State of the State address on Tuesday, had to cut the education budget by more than 6 percent. (Associated Press)(pg. A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DECLINE (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); SALES TAX (89%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); MEDICAID (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); HEALTH CARE (56%) TAXATION; SALES TAX; PROPERTY TAXES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STATES (US); LABOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES 

PERSON: MIKE EASLEY (58%) ;FIRESTONE, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2001 



202 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1510 words

HEADLINE: OLYMPICS; 
Her Biggest Fixer-Upper

BYLINE:  By SELENA ROBERTS 

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
The stucco fixer-upper on the south slope of Camelback Mountain on the outskirts of Phoenix was an outdated 60's contemporary, with avocado-colored appliances, Brady Bunch decor and a $400,000 price tag.
 In the real estate market of the early 80's -- bogged down by double-digit interest rates and fainthearted buyers -- the house went unsold for two years. Then, Sandra Baldwin entered as Arizona's newest real estate broker. Against all logic, Baldwin plunged right into the perilous economic climate. 
 As a longtime English professor at Arizona State, a guide on the Colorado River and the caretaker of her family's farm during the Vietnam War, Baldwin did not hesitate when faced with the challenge of finding success amid foreboding circumstances. 
In the 20 years since selling her first house -- the unmovable handyman's project on Camelback Mountain -- she has turned Baldwin, Baldwin and Shaner into one of the top real estate agencies in the country. She knows about tough sells, daunting markets and the value of location, location, location.
And as the new president of the troubled United States Olympic Committee, Baldwin, 61, will no doubt draw on that savvy in an effort to rehabilitate the American Olympic movement. Nothing may be more critical to her image reparations than the success -- or failure -- of the 2002 Winter Games here.
On Thursday, the 365-day countdown begins. In one year, the world's attention will be focused on Salt Lake City, home of an Olympic bribery scandal, but also the site of a potential fresh start. Baldwin's leadership will be tested as the financially strapped U.S.O.C. tries to win back public confidence and sustain corporate support.
"The scandal -- and I hate to go back to it at all -- but because of that we have additional challenges," Baldwin said in an interview last week. "We have to show the world and the American public that we can do it right."
Today, Juan Antonio Samaranch, the International Olympic Committee president, punctuated the end of the I.O.C.'s three-day executive session in Dakar, Senegal, by formally declaring that the Salt Lake City scandal was over. Such statements by Samaranch won't make the controversy vanish.
There are daily reminders about the possible trial of David Johnson and Thomas K. Welch, the two Salt Lake City bid officials who are accused of plying I.O.C. delegates with $1 million in inducements to land the Games. On Thursday, the same day as the city's countdown celebration, the lawyers for Johnson and Welch will ask a federal court to dismiss the charges of fraud, bribery and conspiracy. Unless the request is granted, the trial is expected to begin in June, but could be delayed until next winter.
"We're not focused on that; we have to be concerned about our relationship with our athletes, our coaches, our sponsors and our visitors from around the world," Baldwin said. "I, for one, have no intention of even thinking about it."
Even if the public separates the administrative scandal from the Games, the U.S.O.C. could still use another "Miracle on Ice." With sponsors like U.P.S. and I.B.M. dropping out, the pressure on the committee is multiplied by the fact that the 2002 Winter Games represent the last United States-based Olympics for at least a decade.
"The competition for sports dollars out in the marketplace has gotten enormous," Baldwin said. "We need to be prepared to give our sponsors excellent performance, excellent character and give them America's best foot forward. We want them to feel the American Olympic movement is a good investment."
That comes at a time when the U.S.O.C.'s image is tainted by corruption, the prevalence of performance-enhancing drugs and the tactless behavior by some American Olympians. 
Over the years, the U.S.O.C. has looked powerless in dealing with athletes' antics. During the 1998 Winter Games in Nagano, Japan, U.S.O.C. leaders failed to uncover which American hockey players ransacked their apartments in the Olympic Village. In the Sydney Games in Australia last summer, members of a United States relay team, led by Maurice Greene, preened before the cameras, turning the American flag into a prop for their poses.
The scene left Baldwin shaking her head. But by enlisting the help of the relay team members, she believes the U.S.O.C. can prevent another crude incident in the future.
"Those exuberant young men in Sydney have been very cooperative," Baldwin said. "They said they made a mistake, and they were wrong. They didn't mean to be disrespectful of the flag. But they've also said we could use some of the footage of what they did in our athlete orientation at future Games, including Salt Lake. In effect, the footage will be used to say, 'This is not the way to behave.' Our athletes can't forget how, in their exuberance, they are perceived."
Baldwin is less aware of how she is perceived. She was stunned by the attention she received in December, when she became the first woman elected U.S.O.C. president. Before the holidays were over, her name had surfaced in a question on "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire."
There is an unpretentious air about Baldwin. Unlike previous leaders of the U.S.O.C., she does not appear more concerned with the cocktail-party glamour of the position.
"I think she's critical to the Olympic movement in the United States," said Mitt Romney, who took over as president and chief executive of the Salt Lake Organizing Committee after the scandal broke two years ago. "We're a piece of that. The Olympic movement in the United States is very much in need of strong leadership to capitalize on the sponsors that we've brought to the Olympics, to shore up support in Washington for the Games and to make sure our voice is heard at the International Olympic Committee level.
"What's great about Sandy is that she is a very, very strong leader. She is very committed to the athletes and to the Games. And she is irrepressible. I think she is just what the doctor ordered."
Baldwin's direct political style has been molded by her family's longtime relationship with Arizona's Goldwater family. She dated Barry Goldwater Jr. when she was a freshman at the University of Colorado. And throughout her life, she has admired the way Senator Barry Goldwater, the Arizona Republican, presented himself without concern for the consequences.
"Barry Goldwater has always been my political hero," Baldwin said. "I think Barry Goldwater said what he thought. And he lived up to his convictions. You couldn't label him. People tried to label him when he ran for the presidency. But you really couldn't because Barry was very liberal on some issues and very conservative on others. He didn't just say what was politically correct because he thought it would win friends and influence people."
Norm Blake, the former U.S.O.C. chief executive, found out just how brazen Baldwin could be. On Oct. 10, she sent a letter to the outgoing committee president, Bill Hybl, criticizing Blake's budget plan, which among other things proposed cutting funding to sports that did not produce medals. Two weeks later, Blake, a corporate turnaround artist who was hired nine months earlier to streamline the U.S.O.C., resigned. On his way out, Blake called Baldwin's tactic underhanded.
But the athletes who opposed Blake's money-for-medals plan celebrated Baldwin's efforts. In large part, their support led to her election as president. But she began her ascent to the top volunteer position in the U.S.O.C. in the late 60's, when she spent hours timing the swim meets in which her son, Clay, competed.
"Some ask how she has achieved what she has, and she answers that it was a great call from above," Clay Baldwin said on the day of his mother's election. "And that call was, 'Hey, moms and dads, we need some volunteers for the meet.'
"Her life is a process of moving forward. There is no side-to-side."
Baldwin did not hesitate to take over her father's citrus and barley farm when her older brother joined the Air Force during the Vietnam War, and she did not stop her pursuit of an education until she finished her doctorate at Arizona State with a dissertation titled "Neoclassic Backgrounds of Nathaniel Hawthorne's Aesthetics." After teaching English for 11 years, the twice-divorced Baldwin, a mother of two, took a sabbatical because "I couldn't think of anything new to say."
That was when she decided real estate would give her the flexibility she needed as she became more involved in Olympic work.
"The market was terrible," Baldwin said. "It was an exciting challenge. I just plowed ahead. I did what I wanted to do." 
There has been only one moment when Baldwin can remember ever pausing to worry about her next step. It was just after her mother and her father died.
"My parents both died before I was 20," Baldwin said. "I'd say at that particular period, life looked a little daunting. But I believe the strength that both of my parents gave me has carried me through. They were of the belief that you can sit in the corner and cry or you can get up and go on no matter what's ahead of you."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sandra Baldwin, who was elected head of the U.S.O.C. in December, has been praised for her leadership skills and unpretentious manner. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. D4); Sandra Baldwin, the first woman to lead the United States Olympic Committee, has a lot riding on the success of next year's Winter Games. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (89%); SCANDALS (86%); MOUNTAINS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); FAMILY FARMS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); BRIBERY (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); CONSPIRACY (63%); LAWYERS (60%); INTEREST RATES (56%); VIETNAM WAR (54%) OLYMPIC GAMES; WINTER GAMES (OLYMPICS); OLYMPIC GAMES (2002); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; WOMEN 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (82%)

PERSON: DAVID S JOHNSON (50%) ROBERTS, SELENA; BALDWIN, SANDRA 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (94%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (73%); DAKAR, SENEGAL (52%) UTAH, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); SENEGAL (79%) SALT LAKE CITY (UTAH)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2001 



203 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: Homeless Shelters in New York Fill to Highest Level Since 80's 

BYLINE:  By NINA BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
The number of homeless people lodging nightly in the New York City shelter system this winter has risen above 25,000, the most since the late 1980's, city figures show, with the largest increases coming among women and children over the last few years.
 Officials say no single factor explains the increase in families seeking shelter. Likely explanations include sharply rising housing costs in an economic boom, a subway advertisement campaign that encourages victims of domestic violence to seek help, more court orders for eviction, and declines in subsidized housing, said Martin Oesterreich, the city's commissioner of homeless services. 
 The number of family shelter applicants has grown 10 percent in the last year alone, he said.
"I can't screw the front door any tighter," said Mr. Oesterreich, in reference to tough screening procedures started by the Giuliani administration in 1996, resulting in more families' being turned away. 
"We are focused on getting through what I view as a temporary crisis," he added. "That's not to say that I may not be proven wrong, and that this is instead a major shift in family homelessness."
The increase, Mr. Oesterreich stressed, is part of a national trend. He cited a 25-city survey by the United States Conference of Mayors that calculated a 17 percent rise in the number of families applying for help because of homelessness.
But New York City's system is the only one in the nation that operates under a court-ordered right to shelter for the truly homeless. On a typical night this week, it gave beds to 10,177 children and their 8,024 adult family members, as well as 7,492 single adults. Thousands more do not seek shelter, but no reliable estimates exist for those on the street.
Seventy-eight percent of homeless shelter residents are in families or are single women. Twenty-two percent are single men, down from a third in the late 1980's.
Families caught in the overflow, including about 500 families a night already found eligible for refuge from domestic violence, have been required in recent weeks to return again and again to the Emergency Assistance Unit in the Bronx because they had been given beds for only one night. The unit is the city's sole portal to the shelter system for families.
Mr. Oesterreich said more families are seeking shelter right after being evicted, though most live with relatives before seeking official help.
Advocates for the homeless say evictions are an important factor. "The Emergency Assistance Unit is a window into what's happening in the economy over all," said Steven Banks, counsel for the Coalition for the Homeless and the Homeless Rights Project of the Legal Aid Society.
For example, he said, landlords have been increasingly successful in obtaining eviction warrants, which were up last year to about 122,000 from 114,000 in 1999, according to the latest caseload activity report from Civil Court. The number of evictions actually carried out by marshals is basically unchanged, he said, but families faced with a warrant often choose to leave an apartment before they are thrown out on the street.
"Whereas the debate for the last few years has been about work programs," he said, "what we're seeing now is that work isn't enough to keep people out of the shelter system." The $5.15 hourly minimum wage is not enough to cover rents greater than $800 a month, he said.
To a large extent, the latest numbers underline a reality that is already familiar to scholars, but still counterintuitive to many city dwellers who associate homelessness with the derelict men and women they see in public places.
The research of Dennis Culhane, a professor of social welfare policy at the University of Pennsylvania who has analyzed computerized shelter system data for New York and Philadelphia, shows that by far the most likely person to become homeless in both cities is a poor black child younger than 5. 
In a little more than two decades, Mr. Culhane said, largely because of an economic boom that increased demand for urban housing by single adults who could pay, "homelessness went from a problem afflicting a few thousand skid row denizens to a commonplace way station for millions of America's poor." He added that recent statistics showed that "one out of every three black children born poor in America's largest cities will stay in a homeless shelter before they enter the first grade."
The daily shelter census is just a snapshot of the total population moving in and out of homelessness. More than 333,000 New Yorkers -- 4.6 percent of the city's 1990 population -- stayed in shelters for one day or more from 1987 to 1996, according to a published analysis of computer records.
Mr. Oesterreich said the city was taking a three-pronged approach to the problem. A $12 million expansion of the family shelter system over three years is part of the proposed budget of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. The city has already sharply increased the number of temporary beds used in hotels -- adding 965 beds for families this year, and 300 beds for single adults, mainly women. The number of single women admitted to shelters has been rising rapidly in the last two years, to 1,714 this week, from 1,200 to 1,300 during most of the 1990's.
Mayor Giuliani and his predecessor, David N. Dinkins, both turned away from the use of hotels as shelters for families in the 1990's, and the bulk of regular shelter placements are now provided by private nonprofit organizations under city contract. But in December the city had 1,334 families lodged in 29 hotels, city figures show, up from 887 families in 16 hotels in December 1999.
An apartment rent subsidy program was announced in October, but it is only now getting under way, with the first 17 of 350 families selected, but not yet housed.
The length of stay by families in the shelter system has increased as families are unable to find affordable apartments. Even those able to obtain federal housing vouchers -- a subsidy sharply cut by Congress in the 1990's -- often cannot find landlords willing to accept them. In October, Mr. Oesterreich said, the city began increasing a bonus paid to landlords who rent to homeless families, but that has not eased the bottleneck.
A state court found in January that more than 700 people were crowded into the Emergency Assistance Unit daily, including children missing school because only one-night beds had been provided for them. As many as 32 families a night were left to sleep on the floor or on benches, in violation of previous court orders, the court found, adding that the lack of a cleaning staff "makes it an extremely unhealthy place for a particularly vulnerable population."
The judge, Helen E. Freedman of State Supreme Court in Manhattan, who has overseen the city's family shelter system under a longstanding court decree, ordered the city to remedy the situation. She said the city should have anticipated the need for more places for refugees from domestic violence, because a new hot line promoted in subway ads now receives 12,000 calls a year.
The city's Human Resources Administration, which is responsible for screening and housing families fleeing domestic abuse, has created 450 beds in specialized shelters, and it sends 500 more of the families each night to the Department of Homeless Services, according to Patrick Markee, a senior policy analyst for the Coalition for the Homeless.
Yesterday, as guards outside the Emergency Assistance Unit ordered families not to speak to a newspaper photographer, one woman who had been seeking shelter with her husband, a hotel worker, and six children called a reporter from a pay phone around the corner and complained about the family's eviction and the conditions they had found in seeking shelter.
She said the family had been receiving public assistance and food stamps to supplement her husband's wages. She withheld her share of the rent from their landlord in the Bronx to force him to correct health hazards that she said had repeatedly sent her asthmatic son to the hospital. Instead, she said, they were evicted, and they turned to the Emergency Assistance Unit a week ago.
"This place is horrible," she said. "There's garbage on the floor. They've been busing us at night to a place in the Bronx where they do a full body search, even on the children. But we got no place else."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The growth in the number of people at homeless shelters has strained city resources. Some families, given beds for only a night at a time, have had to return repeatedly to the Emergency Assistance Unit in the Bronx. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B6) Chart: "Seeking Shelter"The number of homeless people in the New York City shelter system has risen to a level not seen since the late 1980's. Chart tracks adults in families, children and single people living in the New York City shelter system since 1985.(Source: The Coalition for the Homeless)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (93%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (92%); FAMILY (91%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (91%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (90%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (90%); EVICTION (90%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE PROGRAMS (78%); ANIMAL WELFARE (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); MAYORS (71%); LEGAL AID (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%) HOMELESS PERSONS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; DOMESTIC VIOLENCE; EVICTIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); HOUSING; ADVERTISING; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (55%)

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, NINA; OESTERREICH, MARTIN (COMR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2001 



204 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut Budget Proposal Calls for Modest Increases 

BYLINE:  By PAUL ZIELBAUER 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
Warning about a cooling economy, Gov. John G. Rowland today proposed a budget for the next two fiscal years that he said would impose fiscal restraint while allowing modest new spending for education, mental health and drug rehabilitation programs.
 Though Mr. Rowland's budget would increase spending by 3.6 percent in the 2002 fiscal year, which begins July 1, and 4.3 percent the next year, it represents a less optimistic view of the state's economy than did the budgets of the last two fiscal years. The budget grew by 6 percent in the 2001 fiscal year and by 6.4 percent in the 2000 fiscal year. 
 Connecticut operates on a two-year budget, though lawmakers and the governor never seem to be able to avoid changing it every year. For the 2002 fiscal year, Mr. Rowland's plan totals $12.9 billion, and for 2003, almost $13.5 billion.
Mr. Rowland, a popular Republican halfway through his second term, unveiled his proposal in a speech to the General Assembly that focused on education, mental health and prison overcrowding. Mr. Rowland said he wanted to give $50 million more over the next two years to assist suburban school districts, $1.2 billion to renovate and build new schools statewide, and $5 million to provide drug treatment and psychiatric support for prisoners, as well as $55 million in the next fiscal year to begin a variety of locally run mental health services.
The governor's proposal would increase spending by a total of about $1 billion over two years: $450 million in the 2002 fiscal year and $556 million in the 2003 fiscal year. But even with those increases, some programs will not be able to keep up their current level of services. 
"It is fiscally conservative," Mr. Rowland said at the start of a 40-minute address, "but it is balanced by the need to meet higher expectations."
Afterward, Democrats, who control the state's House of Representatives and the Senate, said the speech had presented a series of grand-sounding proposals that, in reality, would merely add to some state services at the expense of other, similar ones. Kevin B. Sullivan, a Democrat and the Senate president pro tem, called Mr. Rowland's budget "one gimmick after another" that would do little to actually improve the lives of most state residents. 
Throughout his speech, Mr. Rowland looked back at the accomplishments of his administration since he took office in 1995, citing $2 billion in tax cuts and $3.2 billion in increased expenditures. But he repeatedly urged a conservative and even wary look at the state's economic forecast. 
"Fiscal restraint has got to be the guiding principle under which this legislature must conduct state business," he said. 
Restraint is needed, said the governor's budget secretary, Marc S. Ryan, because once new tax cuts take effect after July 1, state revenue will probably fall from 6.3 percent this fiscal year to 1.9 percent next fiscal year, a drop of 70 percent. 
Accordingly, to pay for increased aid to suburban schools, Mr. Rowland would cut the same amount from the state fund that pays cities and towns a part of what Connecticut earns annually from Indian tribes' casino-gambling profits. And to pay for the proposed elimination of the hospital sales tax, at a cost of $115 million over two years, the governor would cut some medical services. 
Still, Mr. Rowland seemed intent on giving lawmakers some creative education and job-training proposals. 
He urged the General Assembly to revive a bill it passed in 1972 that created a school voucher program. He proposed financing a modern version of it, giving up to $2,000 a year to 1,000 urban students, with $10 million over five years. "The legislature approved this program 30 years ago," Mr. Rowland boomed, looking back to a bank of impassive Democratic lawmakers. "Now let's have the courage to try it."
Mr. Rowland also proposed giving up to $3 million to the Y.M.C.A. in Connecticut to help it expand child care services for working parents. 
The two proposals struck some Democrats as evidence that Mr. Rowland is taking his lead from President Bush's education and welfare initiatives. "Faith-based social funding and a voucher program," mused David B. Pudlin, the Democrats' House majority leader. "It looks like a trickle-down ideology from the White House." 
The governor, who convened a blue-ribbon commission last year to study Connecticut's mental health care system, also recommended spending $135 million more in the next fiscal year to create community and prison-based treatment programs and to rehabilitate drug-addicted prisoners and others convicted of nonviolent drug offenses. 
His two-year budget would give the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services $28.5 million in the 2002 fiscal year and $42 million in the 2003 fiscal year.
"Crime must be punished, but addiction must be treated," Mr. Rowland said, sounding much like Gov. George E. Pataki of New York in his budget address last month, when he proposed replacing some mandatory sentences for drug offenders with treatment programs.
Some mental health advocates criticized Mr. Rowland for not following the mental health panel's financing recommendations more closely, but influential Democrats said they would support most of the governor's prison and mental health proposals. "To not do what the governor is recommending would cost $100 million, quickly, to build more prisons," said Representative Michael P. Lawlor, the Democratic co-chairman of the General Assembly's Judiciary Committee. 
The governor also proposed $156.5 million in tax cuts in 2002-03 and an increase in the clothing tax exemption to $125 per item from $75, which would save consumers an estimated $32 million annually.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. John G. Rowland of Connecticut speaking to the General Assembly to propose a budget of more than $26 billion for the next two fiscal years. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (91%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TAX LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); PRISONS (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); SUBURBS (66%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC 

PERSON: ZIELBAUER, PAUL; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2001 



205 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Barnesandnoble.com to Trim 350 Jobs in Cost-Cutting Move 

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
Barnesandnoble.com Inc., the No. 2 Web-based bookseller in the United States, announced yesterday that it would eliminate about 350 jobs in an effort to cut costs.
 The cuts will reduce the company's work force of 2,180 by about 16 percent, and will include some positions at the online store's corporate headquarters in Manhattan's Silicon Alley and at a warehouse in Rockleigh, N.J. The company is also cutting jobs in Santa Clara, Calif., and in Kentucky at its Fatbrain.com operation, an online bookstore that it acquired in November. 
 The layoffs came as the company, which is second only to Amazon.com in online book sales, reported a loss larger than Wall Street's forecasts.
"While we regret the impact of the consolidation in human terms, we believe the changes are necessary," said Steve Riggio, vice chairman of barnesandnoble.com, in a conference call with analysts and investors late yesterday afternoon. 
The four-year-old online store was spun off by Barnes & Noble, which owns 40 percent of it, in June 1999. The stock has dropped 82 percent in the last 12 months, in part because of fears that it would end up competing with Barnes & Noble bookstores.
Barnesandnoble.com's stock rose 4 percent, or 9 cents, to $2.12 in regular trading yesterday as speculation spread about possible layoffs. The layoffs and the company's financial results were announced after the stock market closed.
The online store reported a loss of $138.1 million, or 36 cents a share, in the fourth quarter of 2000, compared with a loss of $38.3 million, or 27 cents a share, in the final quarter of 1999. Wall Street had been expecting a loss of 31 cents a share, according to analysts surveyed by First Call/ Thomson Financial.
Sales for the fourth quarter rose to $104.6 million, from $76.2 million a year earlier. The results in the 1999 quarter did not include Barnesandnoble.com's acquisition of Fatbrain.
For weeks, workers at Barnesandnoble.com's Manhattan headquarters have heard rumors of possible layoffs. Yesterday, employees were called into managers' offices to be told that they would be laid off.
In an interview, Marie Toulantis, the chief financial officer of Barnesandnoble.com, said that the Rockleigh, N.J., warehouse, which handled returns, was being closed because distribution centers the company built last year in Memphis and in Reno, Nev., could handle those responsibilities.
The other layoffs were to "eliminate duplication caused by the merger" with Fatbrain.com, said Ms. Toulantis, who would not specify how many jobs were lost at each site.
Ms. Toulantis said that last month, the company revised its financial estimates downward, saying it was because of unexpected costs related to the acquisitions, some investments and soft retail sales at the end of last year.
Analysts said that barnesandnoble.com had made sense as a spinoff a couple of years ago when the dot-com at the end of its name could be used to attract financing. But they said that the name was still associated with its former parent company.
The two sides could combine operations and reduce expenses by eliminating duplication, the analysts said.
If such a move occurred, it would be one of numerous recent examples of companies acquiring Internet companies they had spun off.
David Ricci, a securities analyst with William Blair & Company, who has advocated such an acquisition, said the job cuts seemed meant to position Barnesandnoble.com to be reacquired by Barnes & Noble.
"I don't think the business has played out the way that management had anticipated," Mr. Ricci said yesterday. "Philosophically, the shift goes from almost 'invest at any cost' to 'hmmm, now what to do?' Economically, my guess is the business is not viable as it stands."
"It is not a disaster or a failure, but an experiment at little cost," he said. "It will cost Barnes & Noble to now integrate this back in. But they should." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (93%); LAYOFFS (91%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MERGERS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); BOOK SALES (73%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); LITERATURE (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (68%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FINANCES; BOOK TRADE 

COMPANY: BARNESANDNOBLE.COM LLC (96%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (65%); FATBRAIN.COM INC (57%); AMAZON.COM INC (57%); BARNES & NOBLE INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BARNESANDNOBLE.COM 

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%); BKS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (96%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (96%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (96%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (55%)

PERSON: STEPHEN RIGGIO (52%) BLAIR, JAYSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%); RENO, NV, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2001 



206 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Stop Them Before They Overspend Again 

BYLINE:  By Robert D. Reischauer; Robert D. Reischauer, president of the Urban Institute, was the director of the Congressional Budget Office from 1989 to 1995.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The table has been set. The Congressional Budget Office has projected that budget surpluses over the next 10 years will amount to $5.6 trillion. Alan Greenspan has offered his blessing for tax cuts. The president and Congress are poised to binge, not only on tax cuts, but on things like defense spending, prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries and education initiatives.
 Congress must resist its natural inclination to spend whatever it has on hand (and more). And new budget rules are the only sure-fire way to provide such restraint. 
 After all, the legal restrictions on spending that Congress first enacted in 1990 are, in no small part, responsible for today's surpluses. Caps limited the amount that could be spent annually on discretionary programs like defense, medical research, law enforcement and community development. And pay-as-you-go rules forced lawmakers to offset any expansion in entitlement programs or tax relief with savings from the same areas of the budget. 
When the surprisingly strong economy and booming stock market suddenly transformed the large and seemingly intractable annual deficits into small but rapidly growing surpluses, lawmakers abandoned this discipline. Using a variety of budget gimmicks, they circumvented the spending caps and the pay-as-you-go limits by $16 billion in 1999, $53 billion in 2000 and $93 billion in 2001.
There is nothing wrong with relaxing the spending caps and pay-as-you-go limits. Clearly, strict fiscal discipline is no longer a requirement. But we should be careful not to return to days of the all-you-can-eat buffet. Before throwing money around again, we need new legal restrictions that can guide budgeting in an era of surpluses.
Members of Congress should first spell out that some of the future surpluses should not be considered available at all. For example, virtually everyone agrees that Social Security's surpluses -- some $2.5 trillion of the $5.6 trillion total surplus -- should be taken off the table. Congress should also agree to protect Medicare's projected $392 billion surplus, as both the Senate and the House voted overwhelmingly to do last year in a provision that was later dropped.
Next, Congress should enact legislation that would limit how much of the surplus that remained after protecting Social Security and Medicare could be spent. Although the Congressional Budget Office projects that remaining surpluses will be $2.7 trillion over 10 years, these projections are notoriously uncertain. An unexpected slowdown in the growth of productivity combined with a surge in Medicare and Medicaid costs could easily transform surpluses projected five to 10 years out into deficits.
Even if the budget projections were solid, it would be myopic to commit our entire surplus today. As the decade unfolds, new priorities will emerge and new crises will demand our attention. If all of the decade's fiscal reserves are committed this year, future lawmakers will be forced to cut critical programs or raise taxes to address problems.
New legislation should limit the ability of Congress and the president to tie up future surpluses, especially those that are more than five years away. For example, over the next two years, Congress should be allowed to enact legislation that commits no more than 80 percent of the non-Social Security, non-Medicare surpluses projected for 2002 and 2003, no more than 70 percent for 2004 and 2005, and so on down to 40 percent for 2010 and 2011. When the next Congress convenes in 2003, it would be given a new budget allowance to spend, based on a new set of surplus projections.
The new law should require that the president's budget and the Congressional budget resolution adhere to these limits. And if they don't, there should be automatic across-the-board cuts, like those that so effectively enforced the fiscal rules of the 1990's.
With these rules, Congress would be free to cut taxes and boost spending -- but not too wildly. If all goes as projected, there should be some money left for tomorrow's lawmakers to use for new priorities and unforeseen emergencies. And if the surplus projections proved to be overly optimistic, the country would be saved from painful economic choices.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Jonathon Rosen) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); BUDGET FORECASTS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (57%); MEDICAID (56%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (55%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (72%) REISCHAUER, ROBERT D 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2001 



207 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Essay; 
The 'New' Sharon?

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Strange, how conservative hawks Churchill, de Gaulle, Nixon, now Ariel Sharon -- can survive years in the political wilderness until warlike circumstances impel their nations to turn to them.
 This week's 2-to-1 landslide in Israel was not an election that hinged on a sudden popularity of Sharon, or the collapse of support for Ehud Barak after Palestinians would not accept his virtual surrender at Camp David. This election marked a reinvigoration of Zionism. 
 Though many Israelis had flirted with "post-Zionism," evidently a strong majority of Jews in Israel awakened to realize that a secular triumph at home and a dreamy belief in the good will of implacable enemies on their borders would lead to the doom of a Jewish state. 
"We need to raise a Zionist flag," Sharon told me from a car phone on the way home after his first day as prime minister-elect, "to reinstill national pride, to stimulate immigration to Israel. The nation is completely torn and has more doubts, and a lack of national pride weakens us. I'll put the portfolio of education in Likud hands to give our young people the Zionist education we didn't have for many years. We must strengthen their roots in our land."
He had promised, back when he was nobody, to return my call the first day he won the top job, and Arik, unlike some politicians, is a man of his word. "I'm going to form a new economic committee, headed by me, to prepare for a new, free economy. I'll propose immediate reduction of taxes, like you in America."
The Knesset is still split to smithereens and the defeated Labor party, with Barak suddenly quitting its leadership, is in disarray. Can Sharon form a government that will last at least until the next parliamentary elections in two years?
"I will have a national unity government," he says confidently. He's been reaching out to his friendly rival Shimon Peres, to Labor's Avraham Burg and Haim Ramon. "Burg called me today and said they would like to have it." 
But Arik -- if you bring in the left that vilified you as a warmonger, what about your base on the right that fears you may be co-opted by unrealistic peacemongers?
"I can talk to all of them, the secular and religious, the Orthodox. I'll make an effort to create a different atmosphere with the Arab public." Though he cautions, "Look, it's not only hard to get elected, it's also hard to be prime minister," he is delighted by the sudden realization of his lifelong dream. 
Will he enlist former Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu in his government? Sharon did not sound enthusiastic: "I will approach him, of course, but I think that his answer will be negative." He thinks that Bibi thinks Sharon's administration will fall in a few months, opening the chance for Bibi to run for prime minister, with a more stable Knesset. 
Sharon's assessment of Bibi's view is accurate, which is too bad; Bibi, a generation younger than Arik, would be well advised to pitch in now, when Israel needs articulate hard-line voices, and make his move later. One comeback at a time. Both Labor on the left and Shas on the right would lose seats to Likud if they forced an early election; that gives Sharon's government a strange stability. 
"I have friends who are Palestinians, too, among Arafat's closest people." What about the virulent attacks from Arabs about his election? "You don't hear those attacks from the close-in circle. We have been in communication for weeks."
Will there be a "new Sharon," as doves hope and realists fear? "I learned one thing over many years: to listen to people who talk to me, but not to listen to things said about me. I have my red lines. Maybe that's why I'll be able to conduct negotiations with the Palestinians, because yes is yes and no is no, though in other conditions yes might become no and no might become yes. 
"They know I will guard a united and undivided Jerusalem and other areas crucial to the security of Israel. They understand they can negotiate with me but not as long as the terror doesn't stop. Excuse me, I have a call from the White House coming in. Did I tell you Tony Blair called from London, and the prime minister of Canada? Reach me at home tonight."
I did; more next time. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); RELIGION (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); IMMIGRATION (69%) ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (58%); EHUD BARAK (57%); SHIMON PERES (57%) SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN); SAFIRE, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2001 



208 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: Big Makers Scale Back At Toy Fair; 
So the Little Guys Have More Room To Show Their Stuff

BYLINE:  By GLENN COLLINS 

 BODY:
The nation's three largest toy makers are pulling back from the American International Toy Fair, one of New York City's most venerable and lucrative trade shows. 
 Already Mattel, the world's biggest toy maker (with Barbie dolls and Fisher-Price toys), has substantially downsized its presence this year. Hasbro, the second-largest maker (Pokemon toys and Parker Brothers Games), will follow suit next year, company officials say. 
 They are following the nation's third-largest maker, the Lego Company, producer of plastic building bricks and other toys, which drastically reduced its New York role in 1999. 
The 98-year-old toy show, the nation's largest and most prestigious, begins on Sunday, and at least for now, industry experts say, its high-roller sparkle is undiminished. This year, nearly 2,000 toy companies from 106 countries are placing multimillion-dollar bets to catch the eye of more than 40,000 visitors in five days. 
Booths on three floors of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center are 99 percent sold out. And 359 companies are preparing to welcome fairgoers -- the public is not invited -- to their showrooms in the city's six-block toy district in Manhattan (27th to 21st Streets, from the Avenue of the Americas to Park Avenue South). 
But the giant manufacturers are retrenching at Toy Fair (no one says "the"). Mattel "is here on a much smaller scale than in years past," said Sara Rosales, a spokeswoman.
The big toy companies still find it necessary to make splashy presentations to buyers. But there has been a fundamental change in retailing patterns in the $23 billion United States toy industry.
Increasingly the mass-market retailers like Kmart, Target, Toys "R" Us and Wal-Mart have been placing new toy line orders with the major manufacturers as much as a year before Christmas, because, they say, they need more lead time to coordinate production, distribution and marketing. So Mattel will take customers to Tucson, Ariz., later this month for private previews, while Lego has been inviting mass market buyers to its headquarters in Enfield, Conn., and it woos other buyers on the Internet and by telephone. 
So Toy Fair is increasingly becoming a showcase for smaller manufacturers aimed at buyers, Wall Street investors and analysts, and each year it becomes a more formidable be-in for the media.
A diminished Toy Fair would be a blow to more than just the prestige of New York. According to NYC & Company, the city's convention and visitors bureau, Toy Fair has been rated in recent years among the top five trade shows in terms of its attendance and economic impact on the city, estimated at $180 million. 
Beyond the benefit of makers' presence in the toy district, Toy Fair's visitors will account for more than 50,000 room-nights in more than 50 city hotels and will help fill restaurants, taxis and retail stores. To the New York City Economic Development Corporation, Toy Fair "has been in New York City for a long time, and we hope it remains here and continues to be successful," said Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman. 
Furthermore, the show employs thousands of crafts workers, display builders, designers and other vendors, as well as hundreds of members of the Screen Actors Guild who are hired as toy demonstrators. 
Toy Fair has always been a high-stakes crapshoot, in which companies gamble millions on attracting attention and full order books. And though companies can pay more than $100,000 in annual rent and maintenance, many of the showrooms rented by out-of-town makers are unused for the rest of the year.
Last year, Mattel offered a galaxy of products to buyers in 200 rooms on four floors of its building at the Avenue of the Americas and 22nd Street. But this year the company will instead show 150 products to the news media in a small suite of rooms in the Toy Center building at Fifth Avenue and 23rd Street. 
In 2000, Mattel and its archrival, Hasbro, each spent $10 million on their presentations and showrooms. But Mattel's spending in New York has been cut by two-thirds this year, according to industry executives.
Two years ago, Hasbro spent $9 million to double its exhibition capacity to 67 rooms and 90,000 square feet on three floors in its building at 32 West 23d Street. While its showrooms will be going full blast this year, "it will be our last full toy show," said Wayne Charness, a spokesman. 
Hasbro may move next year to a smaller space nearby on Fifth Avenue, "and sublet the 23rd Street building," Mr. Charness said. 
He added: "We will still have a presence during Toy Fair, because it's an adrenaline pump. It's good for the industry." A major focus of Hasbro's and Mattel's will be attracting print reporters and video news crews instead of buyers. 
As for Lego, it now spends a third of the $1 million it used to spend at Toy Fair, according to Peter Eio, president of Lego Americas. 
Executives and experts disagree on whether Mattel and Hasbro will take the role of Grinches at Toy Fair. "Business can be done in a more efficient way in a variety of venues, lessening the importance of the New York Toy Fair," said Jill S. Krutick, an entertainment and leisure analyst for Salomon Smith Barney. The industry giants "are going to look to other venues to fill their needs," she said.
"New York is a very expensive venue, and so Mattel has taken itself out on the road," said Maria Weiskott, editor in chief of Playthings, a monthly trade publication. "But this is not the end of Toy Fair. It will still be a place where many people get their first look at a new toy line. The next hot toy could come from Toy Fair." 
If Toy Fair becomes less focused on buyers and more on the world news media, which already has a major presence in the city, the city hotels will sell fewer rooms. But despite the waning presence of the largest makers, "The big retailers will continue to come to Toy Fair because of the clout of all the other toy companies," said David A. Miller, president of the Toy Manufacturers of America, a trade group of 250 manufacturers and importers that sponsors Toy Fair. 
If there is any dismay in the toy district, or if the industry had a soft year in a deflating economy, it cannot be discerned from the crowded events roster. The fair's annual festival of news releases and celebrity-party invitations has already reached a peak. 
The management of the Toy Center building has also supplemented Toy Fair in recent years by sponsoring four other shows, including a September preview event, a specialized Halloween presentation, a toy tie-in with the annual May product-licensing show, and a first-ever showcase next November for dolls, trains and teddy bears. 
Toy Fair was once the equivalent of opening night for many a toy line. Generations ago it was a trade show inhabiting hotel suites; it found a permanent home in the Toy Center in 1934, when it became an annual event.
Ms. Weiskott, the editor of Playthings, said the importance of Toy Fair would remain undiminished among "specialty retailers," independent toy, hobby and novelty stores as well as general merchandise buyers for assorted retailers. And certainly some smaller manufacturers see the departure of the goliaths as a plus. 
"There may be a negative reaction at Toy Fair," said Syl L. Saffold, marketing manager of the 125-year-old Chicago toy maker Strombecker, speaking of the disinvolvement of Mattel and Hasbro. "But it's a positive for Strombecker, because buyers will have more time for us, and the media will be able to give more attention to people other than the big guys." 
Richard J. Miller, president of Eden Toys, a 60-year-old Manhattan maker, said, "No matter what the largest firms do, Toy Fair will continue to be important to both the producers and retailers of toys."
He added, "The benefits to the city of New York will continue, and Toy Fair will have a very significant impact on medium- and small-sized marketers."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Mitchell, right, a showroom designer, setting up displays of Sport Fun toys called Splash 'n' Dash and Hop-a-Roo for American International Toy Fair. The 98-year-old toy show, the nation's largest and most prestigious, is to begin on Sunday. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Eddie J. Calcagno, a visual merchandiser, setting up a display for Jurassic Park III, as Robin Hansen, senior creative director, Merv Griffin Productions, watches outside the glass at American International Toy Fair. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOYS & GAMES (95%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (92%); DOLL & STUFFED TOY MFG (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (88%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (72%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (72%); RETAILERS (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (67%); PLASTICS (55%) TOYS; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS 

COMPANY: MATTEL INC (95%); LEGO A/S (84%); LEGO CO LTD (71%); TOYS 'R' US INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL TOY FAIR; MATTEL INC; FISHER-PRICE; HASBRO INC; LEGO GROUP 

TICKER: MAT (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (95%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (95%); NAICS423920 TOY & HOBBY GOODS & SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (71%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (53%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (53%) SIC3944 GAMES; 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (52%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2001 



209 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Head Queries Wall St. on Tax Cut 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK McGEEHAN 

 BODY:
On his one-day listening tour of Manhattan, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill did not hear much dissent from Wall Street officials about the new administration's plans for stimulating the slowing economy.
 A day before President Bush planned to send his proposal for a $1.6 trillion tax cut to Congress, Mr. O'Neill rounded up support from economists and executives of banks, stock exchanges and hedge funds. He tried to allay concerns that the administration had turned its back to Wall Street by repeatedly telling financiers that he wanted to hear their thoughts on economic matters. 
 By several accounts from people who attended the meeting, Mr. O'Neill found little opposition to the first item on his agenda: cutting income taxes quickly and making some of the reductions retroactive to the beginning of the year. 
At a closed meeting yesterday morning at the St. Regis Hotel in Midtown, Mr. O'Neill heard Sanford I. Weill, the chairman of Citigroup, and others express concern about sagging confidence among consumers and investors.
"What's happening is that business is seeing a slowdown and a slowdown faster than they thought and that has accelerated in the last couple of months," Donald B. Marron, the chairman of PaineWebber, said after the meeting. "Therefore, the tax cut looks more and more important to people. Circumstances are changing."
Mr. Marron, who was considered a contender for the cabinet post Mr. O'Neill occupies, and many of the other invited guests have been strong supporters of tax cuts. But people who attended the meeting with Mr. O'Neill said they were struck by the talk of support from executives who have not been known to favor cutting taxes to stimulate spending.
"There was total unanimity in that group that the income tax package was the right medicine for the economy and that it should be accelerated to Jan. 1," said Lawrence Kudlow, chief economist for the ING Barings investment bank. "Surprisingly, the group was really unanimous."
There was more disagreement among the group about the current state of the economy, according to people who attended the meeting, which lasted about 90 minutes. Some who spoke described the economy as already being in a recession, while others argued that it had cooled but still appeared to be growing, those people said.
For his part, Mr. O'Neill referred to the state of the economy as a slowdown. In an interview he taped with CNN yesterday, he said he had not seen any evidence that the economy's growth rate had begun to shrink.
In the fourth quarter, the United States gross domestic product increased 1.4 percent. Mr. O'Neill, who was chairman of Alcoa for 13 years, has said that he would like to see the economy return to a growth rate of 3 percent to 4 percent with no inflation.
Whatever the definition of the current economic climate, the assembled executives agreed that a tax cut would help improve matters, and they seemed to agree that Mr. O'Neill had made a strong first impression.
Peter G. Peterson, chairman of the Blackstone Group, an investment bank, said Mr. O'Neill had shown himself to be a "broad-gauged thinker who has some very interesting ideas about how to approach a wide variety of problems." Mr. Peterson said the discussion ranged from taxes to energy to Social Security to the Japanese economy, but he declined to provide any details on what he said was meant to be a private conversation.
Steven A. Cohen, who runs SAC Capital Advisors, a hedge fund in Stamford, Conn., said, "I liked what I heard, I really liked what I heard." Voicing a distrust of Washington that is common on Wall Street, Mr. Cohen said, "Everyone's concerned that if this money isn't returned to taxpayers, it ends up getting spent." 
The rushed nature of the meeting was evident in the mix of attendees and the misspellings of some of their names on placards on the tables arranged in a long U-shape in the hotel's Versailles conference room. Along with Mr. Weill, the group included Philip J. Purcell, the chairman of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter; Richard A. Grasso, chairman of the New York Stock Exchange; and Frank G. Zarb, chairman of the Nasdaq stock market.
But neither David H. Komansky, the chairman of Merrill Lynch & Company, nor Henry M. Paulson, the chairman of the Goldman Sachs Group, attended. John L. Steffens, a vice chairman of Merrill, stood in for Mr. Komansky, while Abby Joseph Cohen, the stock market strategist, represented Goldman.
Steven Cohen, whose firm bears his initials, said he did not mind that his surname was spelled with a 'k,' because he was so taken with Mr. O'Neill. Joe Roby, chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston, waved off questions before he could be asked how he felt about being identified as Joe Robey. 
Mr. Cohen said he was "very favorably impressed" with Mr. O'Neill. "My only concern," he said, "would be how successful they will be in changing the discourse we've heard for the last 10 years about upper-income taxpayers."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Wall Street executives met yesterday in Manhattan with Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill. In interviews, several people who attended said Mr. O'Neill was told that Wall Street supported plans for a tax cut this year.; Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill tried to allay concerns yesterday that the administration had turned its back on Wall Street. (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); RECESSION (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (56%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); TAXATION 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%); ALCOA INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CITIGROUP INC 

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); AAI (ASX) (50%); AA (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (50%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); SANDY WEILL (70%) MCGEEHAN, PATRICK; O'NEILL, PAUL H; WEILL, SANFORD I; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2001 



210 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Seeks Support for Bush Tax Cut
On a one-day listening tour of Manhattan, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill did not hear much dissent from Wall Street officials about the new administration's plans for stimulating the slowing economy.
 A day before President Bush planned to send his proposal for a $1.6 trillion tax cut to Congress, Mr. O'Neill rounded up support from economists and executives of banks, stock exchanges and hedge funds. Page C4. 

President Bush trotted out some of the working families that he used in his campaign to put a human face on his tax cut plan. A22.

Investors Wary of Murdoch's Move
Rupert Murdoch seems close to obtaining a satellite TV system in the United States, but investors are fretting that he might overpay for a slowing business. Market Place. C6.

Airline Officials Cite Deal Pressure
Leo F. Mullin of Delta Air Lines and Gordon M. Bethune, left, of Continental Airlines told a Senate panel that they would be forced to merge with rivals if regulators approved deals proposed by United Airlines and American Airlines to divide up US Airways. Mr. Bethune said that pending deals would "create a cartel that will marginalize smaller competitors like Continental." C4.

A group of unidentified investors said it would offer $1 billion for T.W.A., double the bid made by the parent of American Airlines. C2.

Daimler to Still Pay Dividend
DaimlerChrysler, stung by huge losses at Chrysler, said that it would nevertheless pay its dividend at a cost of more than $2 billion. Daimler also said its net income for the year plunged by almost half, to $4.89 billion. C4.

Nasdaq Falls on Cisco's Results
Stock prices fell as traders and investors sold shares after a disappointing earnings report from Cisco Systems. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 56.67 points, or 2.1 percent, to 2,607.82. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 10.70 points, or 0.1 percent, to 10,946.72, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 11.37 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,340.89. C10.

E-Commerce Law Stirs Concerns
Advertisers, publishers and online commerce companies are warning that a proposed European Union law would erect barriers to communicating across borders in the union. World Business, Section W.

Productivity Increases by 2.4%
Despite the slowing economy, workers increased their productivity at an annual rate of 2.4 percent in the fourth quarter, higher than expected, the government said. C16.

E.D.S. Profit Beats Expectations
Electronic Data Systems, the computer-service company in Plano, Tex., announced quarterly earnings that beat Wall Street's expectations by 2 cents a share. Revenue rose more than 5 percent. Before the results were announced, shares of E.D.S. closed at $56.90, down $1.65, or 2.8 percent. But they shot up 7.2 percent, rising to $61, after hours. C5.

Telmex Spins Off Parts of Business
Telefonos de Mexico spun off its cellular and international businesses throughout the Western Hemisphere as a new company called America Movil. World Business, Section W.

Yankees and Soccer Team in Alliance
The Yankees and Manchester United, the storied British soccer team, will be connected by a marketing alliance that will, among other things, offer for sale Yankee goods abroad and Manchester United merchandise here and market each others' televised games. D2.

Nasdaq Less Rational Than Tulips
There is a good argument that the run-up in Dutch tulip prices in 1636 was more or less rational. But there is no such excuse for the Nasdaq bubble of 1999 that burst in the spring of 2000. Hal R. Varian: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,946.72 down 10.70Nasdaq composite -- 2,607.82 down 56.6710-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.06% down 0.12The euro -- $0.9291 down 0.0012The dollar -- 116.26 yen up 1.51 Graph shows Electronic Data Systems share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%); PRODUCTIVITY (84%); INCOME TAX (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); FAMILY (77%); COMMERCIAL LAW (76%); CIVIL AVIATION (74%); APPROVALS (72%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (72%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); CARTELS (68%); STATISTICS (67%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (60%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (56%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (70%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (56%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (53%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (50%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (70%); LCC (NYSE) (56%); DAL (NYSE) (56%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (70%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (70%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (70%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (53%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (50%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2001 



211 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Witness Insists Hip-Hop Star Was Holding Gun Inside Club 

BYLINE:  By By KATHERINE E. FINKELSTEIN 

 BODY:
A second witness testified yesterday that the hip-hop mogul Sean Combs was holding a gun during a Manhattan nightclub shooting, and, unlike previous witnesses, did not waver from this statement during more than two hours of vigorous cross-examination by Mr. Combs's lawyer, Johnnie L. Cochran Jr.
 The witness, Julius Jones, 28, who was at Club New York on West 43rd Street on Dec. 27, 1999, said that a fight between a man at the bar and Mr. Combs's entourage escalated, and that he then saw Mr. Combs with a a black automatic "in his hand." 
 Turning away in shock, he said, he then saw Mr. Combs's protege, the rap artist Jamaal Barrow, with a gun. "I saw fire, I dropped," he said. He had been shot in the right shoulder and was unable to move, he said.
Mr. Jones's testimony in State Supreme Court in Manhattan followed that of an emergency room physician, John Anthony Perrotti, who had been on duty before dawn on Dec. 27 at St. Clare's Hospital, where two of the club's three shooting victims, including Mr. Jones, were taken.
Dr. Perrotti testified that one of the victims, Natanya Ruben, who was shot in the face, blurted out while in the emergency room, "I was shot by Puffy," using Mr. Combs's nickname. Though Mr. Combs is not charged with any shooting, the prosecution has asserted that he fired a single shot at the club ceiling.
Ms. Ruben testified on Monday that she saw Mr. Combs hold, and fire, a gun. Mr. Combs, who has pleaded not guilty to charges of gun possession and bribing a witness, denies having a gun that night. Mr. Barrow, who is known as Shyne, is charged with one count of attempted murder, and has pleaded not guilty.
In last week's testimony, Mr. Combs seemed to have played a lesser part in the melee at Club New York. His lawyers incisively cross-examined witnesses, who softened their statements about Mr. Combs's role. And the focus was also different last week because of testimony from club patrons that it was Mr. Barrow who fired a gun in the packed club.
But after Ms. Ruben and Mr. Jones testified this week that they saw him with a gun in his hand, Mr. Combs's actions have taken center stage. And though Mr. Combs's lawyers have said that both witnesses have financial motives because they have filed multimillion-dollar lawsuits against Mr. Combs and his record label, the defense has not succeeded in dismantling their testimony.
Under cross-examination, Mr. Cochran walked Mr. Jones through the profanity-laced fight at the bar that gave way to violence.
Mr. Jones, a former Parks Department worker who is unemployed, said he had arrived that night in a leather suit with an old friend, Chutney (whose last name he said he didn't know), and another friend of 25 years (whose occupation he said he didn't know).
He said he was "chillin' and checking out the ladies" when the fight broke out. He conceded that he had had two glasses of malt liquor at the club, along with "two pulls" of a marijuana joint.
Mr. Barrow's lawyer Murray Richman asked him about two "tokes." Justice Charles H. Solomon then interjected that the witness had said two "pulls," which brought laughter from the gallery.
The cross-examination lingered on the $700 million lawsuit that Mr. Jones has filed against all the defendants, and against Mr. Combs's record label. Mr. Jones denied having told a friend that he was looking for a "payday" from the lawsuit, and that he "had to put a gun" in Mr. Combs's hand to win.
Mr. Jones said, "I don't really want to sue," but that he was upset because he could not work and because his basketball game had suffered. He also testified that were it not for an unpaid $17,000 hospital bill from his injuries in the shooting, he never would have brought the suit.
Mr. Cochran then asked whether Mr. Jones had told the lawyer in his civil suit that all he wanted was $17,000. Mr. Jones, noticeably uncomfortable, replied "No." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WITNESSES (91%); TESTIMONY (91%); SHOOTINGS (91%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); MURDER (78%); FIREARMS (78%); BRIBERY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%) MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; FIREARMS; BRIBERY 

ORGANIZATION: CLUB NY (NYC NIGHTCLUB) 

PERSON: SEAN (DIDDY) COMBS (93%) FINKELSTEIN, KATHERINE E; COMBS, SEAN (PUFF DADDY); JONES, JULIUS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2001 



212 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Are Democrats Ready on Taxes? 

 BODY:
While campaigning against Al Gore last year, George W. Bush had such trouble getting broad support for his proposed tax cut that he stopped emphasizing the subject for a time. That was then. Now, with the economy stalling and Mr. Bush's popularity on the rise, Republicans in Congress say they want to expand a tax cut that is already too large and generous to the wealthy, adding bonuses for businesses and investors. 
 This brings us to the key question of how the Democrats ought to respond and whether they are truly ready and united for the struggle. As a matter of practical politics, Democrats must devise and sell an alternative that is more limited in scope, more fair to the middle class and more likely to help rather than hurt the economy. The Democrats also need to stiffen their spines. With a Senate split 50-50 and a narrow G.O.P. margin in the House, the minority party can influence tax legislation mightily if it remains tough and unified. 
 In the third week of his presidency, Mr. Bush has mounted a well-organized campaign to portray the tax cut as affordable and primarily benefiting middle-class families. In fact, the numbers show the opposite. The figures for the disproportionate benefits going to the wealthy are already famous -- and they deserve to be infamous. The top 1 percent of taxpayers pay 21 percent of all federal taxes, but they will get 43 percent of the Bush tax cut -- more than twice their share. 
The president's principal argument is that his tax cut is needed to forestall a recession. Economists differ on whether tax cuts can really provide that kind of stimulus. But there is general agreement that any salutary effect would be enhanced if the reductions put money into the economy quickly in a way that does not undermine long-term fiscal health. Some moderate Republicans are joining with Democrats to argue that a quick boost to the economy through consumer spending could be achieved by a one-time rebate or credit for payroll taxes. 
Another approach that would make the tax cut more fair would be to include a credit for Social Security and Medicare payroll taxes, which are the main taxes paid by the 40 percent of taxpayers at the lower end of the income scale. An expansion of the earned-income tax credit for working and middle-class families could also bring greater fairness, as would tax credits for such necessities as day care, health care and long-term care for the sick and elderly.
But the Republican leadership resists any effort to dilute the 43 percent cut for the affluent or to let the total tax cut's size drift below $1.6 trillion. As for its affordability, the Bush administration quietly acknowledges that at least some of the Medicare surplus of the next 10 years will have to be tapped. Counting on the surpluses to cover the tax cut is reminiscent of what Senator Howard Baker called the Reagan tax cut, a "riverboat gamble." 
As for the importance of keeping the size of the cut down, President Bush need only study President Reagan's experience in 1981. His cut doubled in size as it moved through Congress, which added special-interest tax breaks in return for votes from wavering lawmakers. As David Stockman, Mr. Reagan's budget director, memorably recalled: "The hogs were really feeding. The greed level, the level of opportunism just got out of control." 
Well, it took more than 15 years of budget-cutting and tax increases to get the ensuing deficits under control. At least Mr. Bush said this week he would try to keep the size of the tax cut at the level he proposed. Whether he can do so is an open question. A bipartisan group of senators has proposed a sensible safety measure, making any tax cut contingent on budget surpluses materializing as projected. The two Republicans in this group, Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island and Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, will have to work to convince fellow Republicans that their party should fight for fiscal responsibility as hard as it fights for lower taxes. 
The Democrats have not yet organized themselves around a specific alternative set of tax cuts, although Tom Daschle, the Senate Democratic leader, said it was likely to be in the range of $800 billion over 10 years, while House Democrats are talking about a cut of $700 billion. The Democrats also propose adjusting rather than eliminating the marriage penalty and the estate tax so that the burden is eased on middle-income families more than the rich. 
These seem to us sensible proposals for providing some balanced tax relief at a time when the surplus is large but the future uncertain. In this environment, it is essential that the Democrats push the idea that tax cuts can be achieved without jeopardizing the economy, returning to federal deficits and dismantling the progressive nature of the tax system itself. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); MEDICARE (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); FAMILY (77%); RECESSION (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (76%); POLITICS (75%); CORPORATE TAX (69%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (67%); AGING (60%) TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (73%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2001 



213 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-17

Senate Votes to Pay U.N. $582 Million in Back Dues
The Senate voted, 90 to 0, for the immediate release of $582 million that the United States owed in dues to the United Nations, which agreed in December to reduce American dues. The move recognized that the United Nations had made progress toward changes sought by Washington. A9

Sharon Builds Coalition Base
Prime Minister-elect Ariel Sharon spent the day after his landslide victory trying to put together a broad-based Israeli government with his vanquished rivals from the Labor Party. He said such a coalition would pursue a new interim peace pact with the Palestinians. A16

Reaction in the Arab world was a mixture of indifference, predictions of dire consequences and occasional relief among Arabs hostile to Israel that the general would be the one to abort the idea of coexistence. A16

Libyan to Appeal Verdict
Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed al-Megrahi, who was convicted of murder for blowing up Pan American Flight 103 over Lockerbie in 1988, told Scottish courts that he wanted to appeal. A12

Russia Seen to Challenge U.S.
The C.I.A. director said Russia was using trade in weapons and technology to improve relations with China, India and Iran while seeking to revive its status as a great power and to challenge American influence. A10

President to Meet With Rebels
President Andres Pastrana is to venture into a rebel zone of Colombia today to meet with the Marxist leader of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, in what analysts regard as an effort to avert all-out war. A6

Aristide Sworn In in Haiti
Jean-Bertrand Aristide became president for the second time in a decade, promising to build a peaceful and viable future for his impoverished country and to reach out to the opposition, which defiantly installed its own alternative president. A6

World Briefing A8

NATIONAL A18-28

Slowing Economy Pinches Budgets of Many States
The slowing economy has sharply reduced state tax revenues in the last few weeks, forcing a growing number of states in the South and Midwest to cut their budgets for the first time in a decade. A1

President Pressed on Taxes
President Bush, who gives Congress his tax cut plan today, said various interests were pushing him to either scale back or increase its size. A22

Mr. Bush said patients should, as a last resort, be able to sue insurance companies that improperly deny them medical care. A26

Mr. Bush's chief of staff, Andrew H. Card Jr., said in a published report that White House offices devoted to AIDS issues would be closed, but the president's spokesman quickly said Mr. Card had misspoken. A26

Faulty Gun Locks Recalled
The Consumer Product Safety Commission said 400,000 gun locks would be recalled after a study found they could be easily opened. A20

Gunfire Outside White House
A former I.R.S. employee identified as Robert W. Pickett, 47, of Evansville, Ind., was shot in the leg by the Secret Service after he fired several shots outside the White House fence, officials said. They added that the president, who was in the White House, was never in danger. A26

Pardon Won't Halt Inquiry
Federal prosecutors in Los Angeles said they would proceed with a criminal investigation of Almon Glenn Braswell, a businessman pardoned by President Bill Clinton, because they believe the pardon applied only to crimes committed two decades ago. But a Justice Department official expressed concern that the pardon could complicate the inquiry. A24

Clintons Return Some Gifts
Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton sent back to the White House some gifts whose ownership was unclear. A28

Florida Businessman Slain
Gus Boulis, a developer who amassed a fortune in restaurants, hotels and casino boats, was shot in Fort Lauderdale late Tuesday. A18

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

City Shelter Population Is Highest Since 1980's
The number of homeless people lodging nightly in the New York City shelter system this winter has risen above 25,000, with the largest increases among women and children. A1

Battling Over Term Limits
Supporters and opponents of term limits engaged in face-to-face shouting matches at City Hall over a City Council bill to repeal the limits. B1

Neediest Cases B5

ARTS E1-12

SPORTS D1-8

EDUCATION

Victory for Disabled Students
The Educational Testing Service will stop flagging the results of students with physical or learning disabilities who receive special accommodations in taking many of its tests. A1

Diocese Begins Cost-Cutting
Archbishop Edward M. Egan of New York said he would close the financially failing John A. Coleman Catholic High School in Ulster County. B1

From Bronx to Long Island
The acting principal of the Bronx High School of Science, William J. Stark, is leaving to become principal of Manhasset High. B1

CIRCUITS G1-10

OBITUARIES A28-29

Anne Morrow Lindbergh
The author, aviator and widow of Charles A. Lindbergh was 94. A29

Dale Evans
The Queen of the West, who won the hearts of millions riding alongside her husband, Roy Rogers, in western films and on television, was 88. A28

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Drug Maker Names New Chief
Bristol-Myers Squibb, the nation's fourth-largest pharmaceutical company, promoted its president, Peter R. Dolan, 47, to chief executive. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

HOUSE & HOME F1-18

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Mental Effects of Bypass
A study has found that 42 percent of heart bypass patients had a decline on mental ability tests five years after their surgery. A18

Higher Costs for Medigap Plans
Rising prescription costs are driving up premiums of insurance plans that supplement traditional Medicare and include drug coverage. C1

Vaccine Ingredients Studied
Federal regulators learned last year that some vaccines were still being made with material from cattle raised in countries where there is a risk of mad cow disease. But officials said the vaccines were still safe. C1

EDITORIAL A30-31

Editorials: Are Democrats ready on taxes? the White House shooting; Topics.
Columns: William Safire, Thomas L. Friedman.

Bridge E8
TV Listings E11
Crossword E8
Weather C16
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); VERDICTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); TAX LAW (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (69%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (66%); AIDS & HIV (63%); INSURANCE (61%); PRODUCT SAFETY (60%); CONSUMER LAW (60%); PEACE PROCESS (56%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); MURDER (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (69%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); COLOMBIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SCOTLAND (91%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); HAITI (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2001 



214 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1600 words

HEADLINE: Onetime Illegal Immigrant Sheltered by Chavez Recalls Painful Past 

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT with RENWICK McLEAN 

DATELINE: BELTSVILLE, Md., Feb. 7 

 BODY:
The satellite television trucks that lined up outside her quiet suburban home here have left. The reporters who once vied for interviews have stopped calling. Life is slowly returning to normal for Marta Mercado.
 But for 72 hours last month, Mrs. Mercado's ordinary life as a homemaker and mother of four was swept up in a political tornado, which only Washington could create, that engulfed the incoming Bush administration and laid bare to an international audience a painful past she thought was behind her. 
 Mrs. Mercado's anonymity ended when President-elect George W. Bush picked Linda Chavez, the conservative commentator, to be his secretary of labor. Soon after, it became known that for more than two years in the early 1990's, Ms. Chavez sheltered Mrs. Mercado, then an illegal immigrant from Guatemala, asked her to do occasional chores and gave her at least $1,500 in spending money that Ms. Chavez and Mrs. Mercado insist was charity, not wages. 
Mrs. Mercado, now 40 and a permanent legal resident, was briefly caught in an intense partisan cross-fire over a woman named to a cabinet job with whom she said she had spoken only once in the last seven years. As Ms. Chavez was forced to detail her long-ago relationship with Mrs. Mercado, so too did Mrs. Mercado have to answer questions -- from reporters and the F.B.I. -- about a failed first marriage, a 10-day stay at a battered women's shelter and a lonely introduction to living in America.
While the media and public interest in her began to die the same day Ms. Chavez withdrew her name for secretary of labor, Mrs. Mercado's life was upended in ways that would take longer to dissipate. She says she is sometimes recognized in public places, such as restaurants near her Maryland home and even in the Miami airport. She said the disclosure of personal details about her troubled early years in the United States made her the subject of gossip in her community and even among her husband's co-workers.
"I was just living my life, and then suddenly I am surrounded by tons of reporters, and I had to talk about things that I thought I would never have to talk about publicly," Mrs. Mercado said in a conversation in her living room here the other day.
Now, she welcomed the opportunity to recount her full personal history, especially the part of her life that had nothing to do with Ms. Chavez and was thus virtually ignored in the accounts that were written during the controversy swirling around the labor nominee.
In recent years, Mrs. Mercado's life has centered on seeking economic opportunity and a better life, a story that has been told and retold for generations by immigrants to this country. She has married an American citizen, settled into this middle-class neighborhood, had a son and was reunited with the three daughters from her previous marriage that she had left behind in Guatemala. 
She was expansive and sometimes laughed during a two-hour conversation, conducted in Spanish.
"I don't know why the things that have happened to me have happened, but in a way I have to accept them," Mrs. Mercado said. "I don't want people to judge me negatively, but if they do, they do. They can suit themselves." 
"All of this caused me a lot of pain, a lot of tension, a lot of worry," added Mrs. Mercado, a small, elegant woman with short, black hair and striking brown eyes. "I don't know how politics works."
Her passage from obscurity to a footnote of Washington scandal lore wends from a poverty-stricken childhood in Guatemala to a shelter for abused women in Virginia to the fateful stay in Ms. Chavez's comfortable home in Bethesda, Md.
She was born and reared in Guatemala City, one of 10 children. Her father was a woodcutter; her mother sold tortillas. The family lived in a wooden shack with a sheet-metal roof. Mrs. Mercado said that when she was 9, she dropped out of school to earn money baby-sitting. "There was nothing poorer than we were," she said.
By 15, she was earning $100 a month working in an ice cream factory. At 19, she had a baby out of wedlock. Two months later, the infant died of meningitis, she said. 
In 1986, at 26, she married Domingo Arrivillaga, a musician. Before long, the couple had three young daughters, Marta Irene, Flor Alejandra and Andrea. But the marriage foundered. Mrs. Mercado said her husband was an alcoholic prone to jealous rages.
Faced with a failing marriage and the drudgery of a life that held little prospect beyond her meager tortilla business, Mrs. Mercado fled to the United States in April 1991. She said she paid $2,000 for counterfeit papers to fool American immigration officials. 
"I wasn't willing to let my daughters grow up in misery without me being able to give them anything," she said, adding that her husband and other family members cared for the girls in her absence.
She flew to Washington, where she had arranged to meet a former neighbor from Guatemala who lived in northern Virginia. He offered his home as a temporary sanctuary. 
While cordial at first, the man soon became "deranged," she said. "I was completely desperate because I didn't have anywhere to go," Mrs. Mercado said. "After he hit me and threatened to kill me, I left the house for the streets."
An acquaintance called the police, who took her to a shelter for battered women in northern Virginia, where she stayed for 10 days. A friend from Guatemala, Erica DeLeon, eventually took her in. Through an American couple whose home Ms. DeLeon cleaned, Mrs. Mercado met Ms. Chavez in October 1991. 
At times, Mrs. Mercado said, Ms. Chavez's home was a refuge. She had an airy basement room. Ms. Chavez helped enroll her in English classes and a women's support group, where she met other Spanish-speaking women. 
But life was still hard. She missed her children, ages 5, 3 and 1. Language was a barrier: Mrs. Mercado spoke no English at first. Ms. Chavez, her husband and two sons, spoke no Spanish. 
"It was a very difficult time," she said. "I was living without my daughters, and I missed them a lot, and I suffered a lot thinking about them, not knowing if their lives were how they should be. I lived with good people but I couldn't communicate with them, or share anything with them." 
Mrs. Mercado said she did occasional household chores, but did not feel exploited. "When Linda would go on a trip, she would ask me to do certain things: take care of the kids, the dogs, things around the house," Mrs. Mercado said. "Sometimes she would ask me to iron the suit she was going to put on, things like that." Ms. Chavez knew of her illegal immigration status.
In December 1993, Mrs. Mercado returned to Guatemala. "I wanted to see my daughters," she said. "I wanted to try to renew my relationship with my husband. I missed my family and my country." 
Six months later, she returned to the United States, this time on a legal tourist visa. Her marriage was over, but not her stubborn desire to improve her daughters' lives.
Mrs. Mercado said she contacted Ms. Chavez, but this time her former benefactor said she could not help. Mrs. Mercado lived with friends and saved enough money to rent a room.
In January 1995, she moved in with her current husband, Ismael Mercado, 48, a bus driver whom she had met two years earlier when she took the wrong route one day. She married Mr. Mercado, a native of Puerto Rico, in 1996. Soon after, as the spouse of a United States citizen, she applied for permanent residency, which was granted in October 1997. Two years later, her daughters in Guatemala came to live with her. 
Everything finally seemed to be working out. Then one night last month, Mrs. Mercado heard about Ms. Chavez's selection on the evening news. The two women had spoken only once since Mrs. Mercado's return to the United States, she said. "I was happy for her," she said. Then came calls from reporters, beginning in earnest on Saturday, Jan. 6, which eventually jammed her phone lines. They wanted to know whether Ms. Chavez had paid her Social Security taxes. She called Ms. Chavez to ask for guidance.
"I was tormented by this, and I wanted to know a little bit more about why this was happening," she said. 
Ms. Chavez told her to cooperate fully with the F.B.I., Mrs. Mercado said, but left it up to her to decide whether to talk to the reporters. 
Within three days, Mrs. Mercado said she had given at least 20 interviews, with her husband supervising. Television trucks clogged her street. "This place was flooded with people, and I was terrified," she said. "One of the things I was scared about was that I had to say how I got into this country, and I know that it's not pleasant for Americans to hear about that, to hear that people have entered the country like I did." 
Then just as suddenly, it was over. Ms. Chavez withdrew from consideration saying she had been victimized by Washington's game of "search and destroy." Mrs. Mercado did not appear at Ms. Chavez's withdrawal news conference, where other immigrants gave testimonials to the way she had helped them. 
Mrs. Mercado said she felt a twinge of guilt over what happened to Ms. Chavez, although she said Ms. Chavez told her not to fret. "I feel sad for her, because I think that she would be in the cabinet right now if not for having helped me during a time when I was in need," she said.
But Mrs. Mercado said she was not angry or bitter, waxing philosophical about the latest twist in her life voyage. 
"I have lived through some difficult things," she said, her voice softening with emotion. "I know I did things I shouldn't have done, and if I could change them I would, but I can't. I am not ashamed of my life." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marta Mercado, a former illegal immigrant and now a permanent legal resident, lived with Linda Chavez for two years and was swept up in her confirmation controversy. Mrs. Mercado was in her Beltsville, Md., home. (Lauren Shay for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); SUBURBS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICS (76%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (73%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (73%); WOMEN'S SHELTERS (72%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (69%); REFUGEES (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (65%); MARRIAGE (64%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE PROGRAMS (50%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (50%) ILLEGAL ALIENS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%) LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (75%) CHAVEZ, LINDA; MERCADO, MARTA; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SCHMITT, ERIC; MCLEAN, RENWICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2001 



215 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: Minimum-Wage Option 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 A Feb. 1 letter writer from the Economic Policy Institute criticizes President Bush's proposal to give states the flexibility to waive future minimum-wage increases. 
 But giving states this flexibility makes sense because some states are better able than others to absorb federally mandated increases in employment costs. 
Such federal mandates may help some workers, but they discourage employers from hiring workers with limited skills and job experience.
This is particularly true in distressed low-wage areas, in which the federal minimum could be unreasonably high. This problem is of concern now since states are pursuing federally mandated welfare reform to move welfare recipients into jobs.

RICHARD S. TOIKKA
Chief Economist
Employment Policies Institute
Washington, Feb. 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); MINIMUM WAGE (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%) LABOR; MINIMUM WAGE; STATES (US) 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (84%) EMPLOYMENT POLICIES INSTITUTE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) TOIKKA, RICHARD S; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2001 



216 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: Washington Memo; 
Tax Foes' Best of Times Equals Worst for Others

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
The last time federal taxes were reduced was 20 years ago. Not coincidentally, that was the last time a Republican took over the White House from a Democrat.
 One might think that two decades after the fact, economists and politicians would have reached some consensus on the positive and negative aspects of President Ronald Reagan's tax cut in 1981 and would be able to apply those lessons to the tax measure President Bush plans to send Congress on Thursday. 
 But that is not the case. Even now, Republicans credit the Reagan tax cut with almost everything good that has happened in the economy. And Democrats blame the cut for almost everything that has gone wrong. 
Here, for example, is what the new chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, had to say about the matter this week: "We've had a 20-year boom. It started with the tax cut of '81. It was good not just for the United States but for the world, because other countries had to lower their taxes just to keep up with us. 
"We've had phenomenal growth. The last eight years have been great. They would have been even greater if we hadn't had the '93 tax increase. The miracle of the last 10 years started with Reagan."
And here, for comparison's sake, is the view of Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader: "We do not want to repeat 1981. Let me repeat that. We do not want to repeat 1981. If you recall what happened in 1981, a new Republican president came in. In the era of good feeling and good will, we passed a tax cut on both sides, supported it on both sides. 
"That led us to a $4 trillion public debt that we're still saddled with today. We don't want to repeat that. Let us not repeat the mistakes of the past. If we do, shame on us."
The circumstances now are quite different from what they were in 1981. Then, the unemployment rate was high and inflation was rampant. Long-range economic prospects were uncertain. The budget was in deficit. And baby boomers were just beginning their most productive working years.
Now, the unemployment rate is the lowest since the 1960's and inflation is no problem. Long-term forecasts are glowing. The government is running a large budget surplus. And the oldest boomers are only a few years from retirement, when they will become a strain on the economy.
Mr. Reagan won handily over an unpopular Democrat and took office with a perceived mandate for change. Mr. Bush took office after a disputed election, winning favor more for his personality than his policies.
There is one important similarity. Federal taxes now, as was the case in 1981, are near a record high as a percentage of the national economy. But even here, there is an important difference. By 1981, almost everyone's taxes had risen over the years. In recent years, the only people whose taxes, on average, have risen are those in the wealthiest 20 percent of the population, and they are the ones who have received the greatest benefit from the economic boom.
A dispute also exists over how big the Reagan tax cut turned out to be and how Mr. Bush's plan compares in size. 
The best way to assess the two is to compare them as a percentage of the overall economy. Ten years from now, when the Bush tax cut would be fully in effect, the loss of revenue to the government would amount to 1.5 percent of the nation's gross domestic product, based on current economic projections. The Reagan cut was either much larger than that or about the same, depending on how the calculations are made.
C. Eugene Steuerle, who was a tax official in the Reagan Treasury Department and is now an economist at the Urban Institute, figured this week that in 1990, the 10th year of the Reagan cut, the loss of revenue was 5.6 percent of the gross domestic product. That would make the Reagan reduction nearly four times larger than what Mr. Bush is offering.
But Peter Orszag, who was an economist in the Clinton White House and is now in business as an economic consultant in California, did a different calculation this week. Mr. Orszag discounted the effect of inflation on tax brackets, subtracted the amount of the tax increase that was enacted in 1982 and concluded that the net cost of the Reagan cut was 1.3 percent to 2.1 percent of gross domestic product.
The size of the cuts aside, the rationales put forth by Mr. Reagan and by Mr. Bush are the same. 
The main argument is that people will spend their money more wisely than the government, so the best policy is to fatten people's wallets and starve the government. The corollary is that the way to ensure economic growth is to encourage private investment by lowering tax burdens.
These arguments cannot be proved or disproved. Most Republicans hold them as an article of faith, and Democrats reject them on the same basis.
When Mr. Reagan offered his tax proposal, he promised that government spending would be drastically reduced and that the budget would be balanced within three years. 
The spending reductions, of course, never materialized, the deepest recession since the Great Depression caused revenue to drop, and the budget deficit mushroomed -- to $290 billion in 1992 from $79 billion in 1981. 
Democrats attribute the huge deficits to the tax cuts. Republicans say that if only Democratic Congresses had acceded to the spending reductions proposed by Reagan, the deficits would never have occurred.
Five years after the tax bill was enacted, David A. Stockman, Mr. Reagan's budget director, asserted in a book that administration officials at the time, if not Mr. Reagan himself, were well aware that the tax cuts would have disastrous budget consequences.
Indeed, in 1982, the Reagan administration had to ask Congress for a tax increase to offset some of the damage done in 1981.
One lesson Mr. Bush may have learned from the Reagan experience was what business lobbyists can do if they get their nose under the tax tent. The president emphasized this week that he would try to limit his bill to tax relief for individuals.
In 1981, the White House and Democrats in Congress competed to add favors for business. The final bill had tax breaks for oil and gas producers, heavy industry, real estate developers, banks and a host of other businesses.
"It was the political equivalent of piling on," said William A. Niskanen, chairman of the Cato Institute, who was a member of Mr. Reagan's Council of Economic Advisers in 1981.
Another lesson for Mr. Bush might be the advantages of giving a good speech. So far, the president has tended to repeat over and over the same lines he used in his campaign. 
On Monday, he pointed to families he had brought to the White House for the occasion and said, "I strongly believe they deserve to keep more of their own money, and so does every family in America deserve to keep their own money."
That is hardly as memorable as Mr. Reagan's line at a similar occasion. "Well, you know," Mr. Reagan said, "we can lecture our children about extravagance until we run out of voice and breath. Or we can cure their extravagance by simply reducing their allowance." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BABY BOOMERS (88%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%) TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%) REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2001 



217 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
Murdoch's satellite TV goals raise doubts about the timing.

BYLINE:  By Geraldine Fabrikant 

 BODY:
RUPERT MURDOCH finally seems close to obtaining a satellite television system in the United States, but investors are fretting that he might overpay for a slowing business.
 As reports of an imminent deal made headlines and his holding company posted strong results for the quarter recently ended, stock analysts began to wonder if victory would be a bit elusive. 
 Mr. Murdoch, through the News Corporation, has long sought a satellite business to deliver his cable services in this country, as he does abroad. 
When News Corporation reported a 10 percent increase in operating income yesterday, Mr. Murdoch declined to discuss the negotiations. A day earlier, though, people close to the company said negotiations had intensified to merge its foreign satellite businesses with DirecTV, a domestic satellite business that is part of Hughes Electronics, which is represented by a tracking stock of General Motors. A combination would create a behemoth with a value of roughly $60 billion and leave News Corporation the largest single shareholder.
The satellite TV business appears to be slowing, though, and the economic slowdown could compound the problem. Investors, said Robert Kaimowitz, a media analyst at SG Cowen, are concerned that "in an economic downturn, consumers will be less inclined to invest in what some see as luxury home entertainment."
"They are also worried that as the cable industry upgrades to digital, its ability to offer more services will thwart the growth of the satellite business," he said.
Mr. Murdoch thinks that satellites are a cheaper and better entertainment choice than cable for American homes. And most of the United States still has analog cable service, which cannot provide as much programming as a satellite dish.
News Corporation is already vulnerable to a slowdown in advertiser spending with its holdings in broadcast and cable networks and newspapers. A substantial increase in its satellite TV business would hardly alleviate that problem.
Though the company's preferred American depository receipts rose 65 cents yesterday, to $34.47, they are far off a 52-week high of $57.19. 
Shares in Hughes and the rival EchoStar are also trading far off their 52-week highs. "The stocks have fallen because investors worried that the growth of new subscribers was slowing," Mr. Kaimowitz said. EchoStar closed down $1.38 yesterday at $29.19, down sharply from the 52-week high of $81.25. Concern that News Corporation will not pay a premium for Hughes pushed down the Class H shares of General Motors $2.96, or 13.6 percent, to $24.75, little more than half its 52-week high of $47 on March 23.
"In a bigger sense, what it brings to mind is that the satellite companies are spending huge amounts of money to acquire subscribers," said Richard Read of Credit Lyonnais Securities. Mr. Murdoch, he said, "is always good at creating value, but with him, it is a question of how long it takes."
Analysts take some comfort from Mr. Murdoch's planning a deal that will not add debt to his balance sheet. And at least some Murdoch operations turned in strong performances in the quarter that ended in December, notably the film division. The parent company lost $32 million, or 3 cents for each American depository receipt, in the quarter, in contrast to a profit of $677 million in the 1999 quarter. Operating revenue, at $3.8 billion, was close to that from December 1999. 
But operating profit jumped to $562 million from $510 million a year earlier, fueled by the success of filmed entertainment and the video success of "X-Men." 
In contrast, profit in the television division declined amid Major League Baseball postseason losses and a slowdown in advertising at the Fox stations. 
Over all, the company had a loss from write-offs. The biggest was from its ill-fated investment in WebMD, which accounted for about $200 million of the company's $281 million in special items.
With News Corporation's nonvoting shares down from their highs, Credit Lyonnais's Mr. Read says that the bet on satellites is probably worth the risk; the share price, in his view, does not reflect News Corporation's underlying value.
"Roughly $14 per A.D.R. is represented in the value of News Corporation's interest in film, TV and cable networks," he said. "Another $7 is in the newspapers and books and magazines." The debt of $4.5 billion is offset by assets off the balance sheet. "That leaves a remainder of $14 per share," he said. "And News Corporation's holdings in a host of publicly traded companies that are included in Sky Global, which will become the holding company for the satellite operations, are worth about $18. That totals more than $35, and it doesn't even include other News Corporation holdings such as Star TV." 
By merging with Hughes, the combination will be valued by the market. "News Corporation may get some benefit," Mr. Read said, "as long as it's at the right price." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SATELLITE TELEVISION (93%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); PUBLISHING (79%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (77%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (63%) TELEVISION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SATELLITES 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (95%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); CREDIT LYONNAIS SA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEWS CORP; HUGHES ELECTRONICS CORP 

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (95%); NWS (ASX) (95%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%) SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (92%) MURDOCH, RUPERT; FABRIKANT, GERALDINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2001 



218 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: To Blunt Criticism, Bush Reunites Working Families Backing His Tax Cut 

BYLINE:  By MARC LACEY with RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
President Bush today trotted out some of the working families that he used in the presidential campaign to put a human face on his tax-cut plan and counter Democratic suggestions that his proposal was overly skewed toward the rich.
 But even as Mr. Bush sought to focus on how the middle class would benefit from his plan, a group of business executives visited the White House to urge the president to increase the benefits that corporations would receive. 
 The president also met with 21 members of the Ways and Means Committee, the key tax-writing panel in the House, to try to forge consensus on the centerpiece of his domestic agenda. In that session, he faced supporters and skeptics alike and, in the words of Representative Jennifer Dunn, Republican of Washington, "showed the strength of his backbone." 
Mr. Bush, who is to send the plan to Congress on Thursday, acknowledged that he was being pushed by various interests to either scale back or ratchet up his campaign pledge to cut taxes by $1.6 trillion over 10 years. But the president said he would fight to keep the tax cut from wavering in either direction.
"I think for those who want to diminish the size of the tax cut, that would be inadvisable, and for those who want to increase the size of the tax cut, that would be inadvisable," Mr. Bush told reporters. "It's the right size." 
The president gathered in the South Portico of the White House this morning with 21 of the "tax families" that his campaign aides rounded up to stand on stage at rallies as examples of the everyday people who would benefit from Mr. Bush's tax policies.
It was a multiracial crowd that included a waitress, a car repairman, two secretaries, a physical therapist and plenty of children. "It's totally exhilarating to be here," said Lisa Law, a homemaker, who was flown from Little Rock to Washington for the event with her husband and three children. It was Mrs. Law's first plane flight, and the Republican National Committee paid for it. 
Mr. Bush called Mrs. Law and the others "real, live Americans who will benefit" from his proposals.
"I have one message for all the folks that were our 'tax families' and all the folks from around the country," the president said. "You helped me make my case, and now I intend to make good on my promise. I want it to be said that ours is a plan that fulfills a campaign promise."
After the families posed for photographs with the president, the business leaders arrived for lunch. The group of 22 executives included Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers; Donald Fisher, chairman of Gap Inc.; and Stephen W. Sanger, chairman of General Mills.
Despite Mr. Bush's clear message that he did not want to see his proposal weighted down with other provisions, business groups said they intended to press their case for corporate tax cuts at the White House and on Capitol Hill.
Some of the executives at the White House today were members of the American Council for Capital Formation, a coalition of trade associations and companies hoping to present a united front to the administration in pressing the case for a broader tax cut.
The coalition said it would press the administration to adopt one of two major changes: a reduction in the corporate income tax rate to 25 percent from 35 percent over three years, or an acceleration in the rate at which businesses could write off their investments in new equipment.
The group said it would also seek a change in the tax code so that multinational corporations based in the United States would only pay taxes in the United States on income generated in the country, while continuing to pay taxes abroad on profits earned overseas. 
In addition, the coalition said it would support a package of retirement savings incentives, including expansions of the popular individual retirement account and 401(k) programs.
Charls E. Walker, a longtime tax lobbyist who is chairman of the coalition, said he could not put a dollar figure on the provisions the group was seeking, but he said that the changes were affordable.
Mr. Walker and other members of the coalition met today with Donald L. Evans, the commerce secretary, and Lawrence B. Lindsey, the White House economic adviser, before their lunch with Mr. Bush.
Other business groups are also pressing Mr. Bush for corporate tax cuts. The Business Roundtable, a group of the largest corporations, said it would push for $1 of reduction in the corporate income tax rate for every $5 dedicated to tax cuts for individuals. That would amount to $320 billion on top of Mr. Bush's $1.6 trillion plan.
On Capitol Hill, House and Senate Democrats began a coordinated campaign to brand Mr. Bush's plan as far costlier than he was letting on and particularly favorable to the wealthiest Americans. Yet Democrats have not united around a particular alternative to Mr. Bush's plan.
The 54-member Congressional Progressive Caucus will introduce its proposed $900 billion tax-cut plan on Thursday. It would give a refundable tax credit of about $320 to every American, no matter what their income, and would make the benefit dependent on a budget surplus.
"A family of four earning $20,000 a year will receive about $1,300 in tax breaks, and Mr. and Mrs. Bill Gates and their children will receive the same," said Representative Bernard Sanders, a Vermont independent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The House speaker, J. Dennis Hastert, right, stood on the steps of the Capitol yesterday with the Capital Baptist Church Home Schooling Support Group, which favors President Bush's proposed tax cut. Mr. Bush also brought out some of the working families he had used last fall to advance his plan. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); FAMILY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (68%); FOOD INDUSTRY (61%) TAXATION; CORPORATIONS 

COMPANY: GAP INC (60%); GENERAL MILLS INC (50%)

TICKER: GPS (NYSE) (60%); GIS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (60%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (60%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (50%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (50%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (50%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); STEPHEN W SANGER (59%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); LACEY, MARC; STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2001 



219 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Vowing Peace, Aristide Is Sworn In Again as President 

BYLINE:  By DAVID GONZALEZ 

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Feb. 7 

 BODY:
Jean-Bertrand Aristide was sworn in today as president of this poor republic for the second time in a decade, promising not only to build a peaceful and viable future but also to reach out to the very opposition that defiantly installed its own alternative president this morning. 
 Speaking at the Presidential Palace, where he was serenaded by schoolchildren and cheered by crowds who pressed their faces against the mansion's green gates, Mr. Aristide touched on a conciliatory but firm note. Opposition groups, who failed to reach a political accord with Mr. Aristide and his Family Lavalas party over the weekend, have refused to acknowledge him as president. 
 "I open my hands and my heart to all political parties," Mr. Aristide said during his 50-minute address, speaking in Creole at a podium flanked by murals of a dove and the words "peace" and "unity." "I am the president of all Haitians. And I will be the president of everyone without exception. There is only one way to take us, and that is the road of peace. Between the opposition and Lavalas, we are the same. We are from the same mother. Haiti is our mother."
Speaking briefly in English, he pledged to support eight points that he outlined in a December letter to President Clinton, including resolving the dispute over last May's legislative elections, establishing a new electoral council and including the opposition in the government. 
"Here in Haiti we are committed to dialogue," Mr. Aristide said. "It is the ballot and not the bullet which proposes the way to change and leads to a better life."
But ballots have brought no peace since May, when a disputed counting method gave Lavalas an overwhelming majority that the opposition and the international community considered questionable. The opposition boycotted November's presidential election, where voter turnout was low, and considers the resulting government illegitimate.
Mr. Aristide, a former Roman Catholic priest who became Haiti's first democratically elected president in 1990, was overthrown seven months into his first term and was restored by an American-led invasion in 1994. At the end of his term, he was succeeded by Rene Preval, who today became the first Haitian president to serve a full term.
This morning, Mr. Preval smiled broadly after he removed the red and blue presidential sash and draped it over Mr. Aristide's slight shoulders. It was as if he was letting go of the troubles that had beset him for much of his term, which was marked by intense partisan fighting. The result was governmental paralysis, as economic and social problems festered. 
About the same time as the ceremony in Parliament, Gerard Gourgue, a professor of law who was a leading candidate in 1987 elections, addressed the nation. He said the country was worse off than the day exactly 15 years ago, when Jean-Claude Duvalier fled the country with his entourage and ill-gotten fortune. Mr. Gourgue said he would extend his hand to all who were willing to work for democracy.
While Mr. Aristide managed to return to power without making concessions to the opposition, the results of the dispute were evident. Although few appeared to have heeded the opposition's call for a peaceful protest today, the crowds for Mr. Aristide were nowhere as intense as they were during his first inauguration, when jubilant throngs crammed the streets from the Cathedral to the Palace.
Those lining the streets had little patience for the opposition. "They are just trying to have a psychological coup d'etat," said Jean Souverain. "There is no reason for it."
The support Mr. Aristide enjoys among the millions of the poor is as much as burden as a boon. 
During his inaugural address, Mr. Aristide vowed to create a half-million jobs, especially by focusing on labor-intensive public works.
He also said that poverty could not be eliminated without attacking corruption, and he promised to bolster the police force, which observers said was weak and suffering from low morale and outright corruption.
Foreign dignitaries were few, since most countries limited representation to their ambassadors. In a statement released before the inauguration, a spokesman for the French government echoed the concerns of the European Union, which recently stopped almost $50 million in aid in protest over the failed negotiations with the opposition. 
Speaking on a radio program after the inauguration, Serge Gilles, an opposition member, was skeptical of Mr. Aristide's promises, saying the opposition had been hearing such talk for years.
"The sweet talk is for the international community," he said. "We are still here waiting on the field."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jean-Bertrand Aristide, newly sworn in as Haiti's president, after his speech during inauguration ceremonies yesterday in Port-au-Prince. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); BOYCOTTS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); ETHICS (62%); RELIGION (61%); CHILDREN (56%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%) INAUGURATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%) ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GONZALEZ, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (92%) HAITI

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2001 



220 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 2869 words

HEADLINE: WEEKEND EXCURSION; 
Seat of Government, Seat of the Pants

BYLINE:  By DIANE COLE; Diane Cole is the author of a memoir, "After Great Pain: A New Life Emerges."

 BODY:
We had a great time, but a child-friendly introduction to government it was not. 
 "Mom, I thought they were going to arrest me." 
 My 11-year-old son, Edward, and I had not only just arrived at the nation's capital but at the Capitol itself. From the outside, the sight of the majestic multilayered dome had filled us with awe. 
Then as Edward walked through the giant bronze-paneled doors that lead to the opulent Rotunda, the metal detector suddenly beeped. Immediately, two wary police officers asked him to step aside and for the first time in his young life my son was frisked. 
It took only a minute for the officers to uncover the souvenir pocketknife Edward had forgotten to remove from one of the countless pockets that make cargo pants a favorite. But it brought home the need for tight security in the city. 
Having lived in Washington, I knew I was reverting to type when after our initial attempt to tour the J. Edgar Hoover F.B.I. Building was rebuffed (the limited supply of free tickets had been exhausted long before we arrived at 10:45 a.m.), I began worrying that my phone calls to try to arrange a visit later in our trip were being tapped. (What were all those clicks on the line, anyway?) 
Fortunately, the F.B.I. ultimately did come to our rescue, fitting us in for a tour on the afternoon of our departure, about which more later. 
But our Washington experience also taught us this: No matter how much you plan ahead, something your children are absolutely dying to see will prove unexpectedly off-limits, inexplicably closed or under repair. So if you want to accomplish anything in this town, don't just plan ahead. Plan to be surprised and come armed with a Plan B.
Our first day in Washington was a case in point. Edward's brush with authority was merely a prelude to our second disappointment at the Capitol. Neither my guidebooks nor the newspaper I had checked told me that no guided tours were being offered that day; take a brochure and lead yourself around was the only way to go about it. What a fine way to start the day.
Our efforts were ultimately rewarded, but in addition to getting off on the wrong foot at the Capitol we had already learned that several important players in our all-star, child-pleasing lineup would not be available. First, despite a severe case of panda fever, my son and I had to nix a planned pilgrimage to the newly arrived Chinese giant pandas Mei Xiang and Tian Tian at the National Zoo because these cutest of celebrities would not be unveiled to the public until a few days after our departure. (Now that these crowd-pleasers are accepting visitors, be prepared for long lines, we're told.) 
Next we found out no one could show us the money. The Bureau of Engraving and Printing, where our paper currency is produced, is closed to the public on weekends, major holidays and the week between Christmas and New Year's.
Third, though we yearned to go to the Navy Museum at the Washington Navy Yard to see the antique ship models and artifacts of Arctic exploration and inspect the recreated submarine room replete with periscopes and steering wheels, that visit was not to be. The main building will remain closed for renovations until the summer. 

Library of Congress
So we seemed to have struck out even before we arrived at the Capitol. Feeling defeated and depleted, we took a quick look at the impressive marble statues in the august building's public halls and corridors and retreated outside. Facing us across the street stood our next pinch-hit destination: the Library of Congress. Honestly, I asked myself, could the world's largest depository of books deliver when the visible symbol of our democracy had not? Then again, could we do any worse? 
We gamely entered the library's ornately decorated Beaux-Arts style Thomas Jefferson Building and discovered a surprise hit. 
First, on the ground floor came a small but enthralling exhibition of the cartoons of Al Hirschfeld. Down the corridor, while I paused to pay homage before George Gershwin's piano and his brother Ira's pen and typewriter, Edward wandered into the Bob Hope Gallery of American Entertainment, where he enjoyed a few of the continuously running comedy video clips. 
Then we ascended the grand staircase to the Great Hall, where we blinked at the dazzling 23-karat gold-leaf vaulted ceiling and gaped at the Main Reading Room's giant Corinthian columns and arched stained-glass windows. 
Another floor up and we arrived at the Treasures Gallery, which has a rotating display of a select few of the more than 110 million items in the library's holdings, with prizes like first editions of L. Frank Baum's "Wonderful Wizard of Oz" and the contents of President Abraham Lincoln's pockets on the night he was shot (including his spectacles, watch fob and a $5 Confederate note). 

At the Newseum
Our improvised schedule then led us to another substitute child pleaser that deserves to be in the family sightseeing starting lineup: the Newseum. Yes, that is the correct spelling for this highly interactive high-tech museum devoted to journalism. Across the Potomac River in Arlington, Va., it even provides a good excuse to ride the Metro, Washington's futuristic-looking ultra-quiet subway, which drops passengers a block away from the glass-and-concrete half-domed building. 
Inside the Newseum we quickly became caught up in the floor-to-ceiling displays chronicling the many ways throughout history that humans have found to spread the news, from cave paintings to beating ceremonial drums to hieroglyphics to ancient marathon-running messengers to the printing press and radio, television and the Internet.
We stayed for hours, captivated by a multitude of video minidocumentaries that teach youngsters and remind oldsters with a capsule history of broadcasting in the last 50 years. A gleaming broadcast studio and dozens of computer stations also allow visitors to play the roles of reporter, editor, photographer and anchor. In a wry touch, blooper headlines from real newspapers adorn the walls of the women's restrooms. My favorite: "Beheading Can Cause Kids Stress." Indeed.
That evening we took a city bus tour, which to my mind is the best method of fitting in famous monuments that adults find inspiring but can strike children as drafty echo chambers, all within the time allotted by a typical child's attention span. As we cruised along in our Gray Line tour bus, bright lights illuminated the grand neo-Classical structures that line the stately avenues and further heightened the already awe-inspiring settings of the Lincoln, Jefferson, Vietnam, Roosevelt and Korean War Veterans Memorials. We stopped at each for a few Kodak moments.

Stopping for Souvenirs
Clearly, we were on a sightseeing roll. We had even managed to sneak in some time at Union Station, which is more than a transportation hub. Its monumental Roman architecture and vaulted ceilings provide a stunning backdrop to a bustling shopping mall and a host of restaurants. Our top pick for souvenirs was Political Americana, which specializes in political and campaign memorabilia. There we found the perfect gift, at $10, for Edward's grandmother, a vintage 1940's red, white and blue lapel button proclaiming, "I Want Roosevelt Again!"
Feeling flush, we headed to the Washington Monument the next morning. At just over 555 feet tall (I explained tour-guide style to Edward), the gleaming white obelisk is the tallest structure in the city, and its super-fast 70-second elevator ride to the top leads to a breathtaking observation summit. 
That is, when the elevator is in service. 
Which, we discovered from a tiny sign that cited necessary repair work, it was not.
For a split second, I wondered if we had landed in a sightseeing Twilight Zone where nothing could go right. No, it was only Washington and as initiates to the city's tourist vagaries, we simply made do with the second-highest observation point of Washington: the clock tower of the pavilion at the Old Post Office on Pennsylvania Avenue. 

So Much to Do
It was another small gem, or given the building's immense size, a large gem. From atop this handsomely renovated 1890's Victorian-style turreted castle, we even spotted the White House, which because of security-conscious traffic rerouting and landscape camouflage is barely visible from the street anymore. This view was as much of the White House as we would get to see since the hours-long wait in line for the White House tour rivals the lines for Disney World's most popular rides, but without the payoff for the children. 
As for the Old Post Office the literal payoff is Ticket Place, where you can buy discounted tickets for any theater and concert performances available that evening. The pavilion's food court also offers inexpensive snacks and meals for hungry youngsters needing a break between sights.
So had we gotten the knack of navigating the city after all? Prepared for anything and everything, we set off for the numerous, multifaceted museums on the Washington Mall that make up the Smithsonian Institution. (And that's not even counting the additional ones elsewhere in Washington.)
Wondrously, anything and everything is what we did see, starting at the amazingly eclectic National Museum of American History. Or, more accurately, we knew enough by now not to be surprised that its two most famous holdings were not on display. The American flag that inspired Francis Scott Key to compose the "Star-Spangled Banner" is under restoration until 2002, and it was undecided, a friendly guard told us, when the free-swinging 240-pound brass Foucault pendulum -- which demonstrates the earth's rotation -- would reappear. 

Suits and Slippers
But what did it matter when there was so much else to gape and gawk at in the so-called attic of America: authentic model T's, steam trains and electric street cars, Samuel F. B. Morse's telegraph, Thomas Edison's light bulbs, Alexander Graham Bell's early telephones and Dorothy's ruby slippers from the Hollywood "Wizard of Oz." 
Free tickets provide entry to the newest permanent exhibition, "The American Presidency," where artifacts both fascinating and quirky abound: George Washington's uniform, the suit Harrison Ford wore in "Air Force One," Bill Clinton's saxophone, an 1896 White House dollhouse and Warren G. Harding's aqua Chinese silk pajamas. A presidential lectern also allows children (and exhibitionistic moms like me) to read presidential addresses from a teleprompter. 
Elsewhere in the museum we particularly enjoyed the "On Time" exhibition, which shows that Americans always have been obsessed with time management. Witness the weird science movie short made by home economists in the 1940's about the most efficient way to transfer eggs from carton to refrigerator. 

Bones and Bugs
Thus inspired -- and hungry -- we wasted no time making our way to the museum's Ice Cream Parlor and Cafe, which is decorated to resemble a 1900's soda shop. It offers reasonably priced soups, salads, pizzas, sandwiches and fountain treats. In a nice touch, the menu even explains the origins of some of America's favorite foods.
Next up: the National Museum of Natural History, which in many ways resembles the American Museum of Natural History in Manhattan, with dinosaur bones and taxidermic wonders galore. What Washington has that New York does not is an engrossing (and sometimes gross, several children exclaimed) Insect Museum that features live tarantulas, giant cockroaches, honey bees at work and a multitude of spiders, scorpions, centipedes, and millipedes, all at a child's-eye level. If you wish to be dazzled by a different kind of wonder, the gems and minerals hall holds the spectacular 45.5-carat Hope Diamond. 
A detour, anyone? While you're in the neighborhood, lovers of natural history might also consider a brief stop across the street t the National Aquarium -- an unpretentious, old-fashioned basement filled with about 50 tanks of exotic fish. It's refreshingly unglitzy, and its child-friendly atmosphere makes it a calm oasis away from the crowded bustle of the more popular museums. 
Speaking of which, most popular of all among Smithsonian museums is the National Air and Space Museum, which we had visited many times before and whose attractions, my son assures me, merit countless revisits. Here, too, some of the exhibitions were hidden from view because of renovations that are expected to continue through next year. But on our foray most of the museum remained accessible, from the Wright Brothers' original plane to Charles Lindbergh's Spirit of St. Louis to the Apollo lunar lander to Skylab. 

F.B.I. Building
And now, on our last afternoon in town, we come to the highlight of my son's -- and many children's -- Washington experience: the J. Edgar Hoover F.B.I. Building. The one-hour tour of the agency's fortresslike headquarters is so popular that lines commonly begin to form well before 8:30 a.m., and waits are often two hours or more. 
Your best bet for getting in is to write your representative at least three months in advance for a reservation. A press officer told me that she had seen the ticket lines starting as early as 6 a.m. during the busy summer vacation months. 
The worth-the-wait tour takes you through a history of crime starting with the gangsters of the 1930's. You get to examine the current Most Wanted list, and you peer through glass windows at several forensic crime labs; the Firearms Evidence Collection, which consists of weapons by the thousands; and mountainous displays of ill-gotten jewels and other luxury items seized by the feds. 
All this is only the warm-up act for the real show: an actual F.B.I. agent firing several magazines of ammunition from a variety of automatic weapons. 
"Mom, I never saw real live gunfire before," Edward exclaimed when the smoke had cleared from the target practice. "Can we come here again?"
Not this trip. But next time we'll plan ahead, and if the zoo doesn't close unexpectedly, we'll see the pandas, too. 

Capital Choices for Visiting Children
A sampling of one family's child-friendly favorites among the capital's sights.

Attractions

J. EDGAR HOOVER F.B.I. BUILDING, E Street, NW, between 9th and 10th Streets. Tours Mondays through Fridays, 8:45 a.m. to 4 p.m. Closed weekends and federal holidays. Admission free. During peak holiday seasons waits can be two hours or longer. Write or call your representative or senator's office to reserve spaces for parties of up to six people. Information: (202) 324-3447.

THOMAS JEFFERSON BUILDING OF THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS, 10 First Street, SE. Open Monday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Admission free. Gift shop. Exhibition information: (202) 707-4604; visitors' information: (202) 707-8000.

GRAY LINE BUS TOURS. Prices vary according to tour. Information: (202) 289-1995. There are many additional organized sightseeing tours of Washington; you can check with your hotel concierge or Washington Convention and Visitors Association, (202) 789-7000.

NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM, Independence Avenue at Sixth Street, SW. Open daily, 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Closed on Christmas. (Extended spring and summer hours are determined annually.) Free. Gift shop, restaurant and cafeteria on premises. Smithsonian Institution information: (202) 357-2700.

NATIONAL AQUARIUM, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW. Open daily year round, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Last admission at 4:30 p.m. Closed on Christmas. Admission: $3, adults; 75 cents, the elderly and ages 2 to 10; free, under 2. Information on shark and piranha feeding times: (202) 482-2825.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF AMERICAN HISTORY, Constitution Avenue between 12th and 14th Streets, NW. Open daily except Christmas, 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. (Extended spring and summer hours are determined annually.) Free. Gift shop, restaurant and cafeteria on premises. Smithsonian Institution information: (202) 357-2700.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY, Constitution Avenue at 10th Street, NW. Open daily except Christmas, 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. (Extended spring and summer hours are determined annually.) Free. Gift shop and cafeteria on premises. Smithsonian Institution information: (202) 357-2700.

THE NEWSEUM, 1101 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Va. Open Tuesday through Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; closed Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year's Day. Free. Gift shop and snack bar. Information: (703) 284-3544 or (888) 639-7386.

THE OLD POST OFFICE TOWER, 1100 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW. Free. Tower tour daily, winter months 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; extended hours in spring and summer. Stores and food court open daily. Closed Thanksgiving, Christmas, New Year's Day. Information: (202) 289-4224. Ticket Place hours: Tuesday to Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.

UNION STATION, 40 Massachusetts Avenue, NE. Building and station open daily. Hours vary for stores, restaurants and movie theaters. Information: (202) 371-9441.

Getting There

BY TRAIN: Amtrak, (800) 872-7245. A one-way ticket from New York to Washington costs $62 to $77 for an unreserved seat; $68 to $85 for a reserved seat; $124 for the Metroliner.

BY AIR: Round-trip fare on Delta, (800) 221-1212; United, (800) 241-6522; and U.S. Airways, (800) 428-4322 is $116 to $499, depending on date of purchase.
 DIANE COLE

GRAPHIC: Photos: Visitors at an information center in the Insect Museum, part of the National Museum of Natural History in Washington. (Linda Spillers for The New York Times)(pg. E33); Start spreading the news: Left, Adam Willess, 12, of Oakton, Va., reporting live from the Newseum, the highly interactive high-tech museum near Washington devoted to the history and practice of journalism. Below, Michael Orndoff, 5, of Winchester, Va., exploring outer space at the lunar module at the National Air and Space Museum.; Most wanted: Julia and Jeremy Brown of Fairfax, Va., striking a pose at the J. Edgar Hoover F.B.I. Building. (Photographs by Linda Spillers for The New York Times)(pg. E41) Map of Washington highlighting tourist destinations. (pg. E41)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); METAL DETECTORS (70%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (60%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%); NATIONAL AIR & SPACE MUSEUM (59%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (59%); NEWSEUM INC (59%)

PERSON: COLE, DIANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); HUNAN, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (58%) WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2001 



221 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 4657 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The New York Times of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free. * denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

* "ABCD: A COLLECTION OF ART BRUT," Museum of American Folk Art, 2 Lincoln Square, (212) 977-7170 (through mid-July). Memorably vivid and widely abused, the phrase Art Brut (meaning raw or rough art) was coined in the 1940's by the French artist Jean Dubuffet. This exhibition, drawn from the holdings of a Paris-based foundation, attempts to reinstate his original meaning, revisiting the amazing pantheon of artists who inspired it and proposing some additions. Its many highlights include works by acknowledged greats like Adolf Wolfli, Aloise Corbaz, Henry Darger and Augustin Lasage, but the show also introduces many equally riveting artists unfamiliar to American audiences. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. Free (Roberta Smith).

* "AFRICAN FORMS," Museum for African Art, 593 Broadway, near Houston Street, SoHo, (212) 966-1313 (through Aug. 8). This show forgoes the figurative sculptures and masks that made African art a foundation of Western modernism to concentrate on supposedly humbler stuff, objects of physical adornment and daily use. With some 400 objects created by 156 ethnic groups, it proceeds in clusters of related carved wood neck rests, stools and boxes; ivory hairpins and snuff bottles; all kinds of jewelry; baskets and ceramic vessels; as well as spoons, weapons and musical instruments. The show is pervaded with elegance, economy of form and a sensitivity to materials that is both intensely spiritual and protomodern. Figurative sculpture and masks may be the "high art" of Africa, but there is no low. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; $2.50, students and the elderly (Smith).

"CONTEXT: MEXICO'S TALLER DE GRAFICA POPULAR AND ITS LEGACY," Bronx Museum of the Arts, 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, (718) 681-6000 (through March 4). The Taller was established in Mexico City in 1937 to create a national art that would be accessible to the common man, and its utopian goals have inspired generations of Chicano and Puerto Rican artists. This small show, installed in the museum's permanent collection gallery, includes work by founding members of the Taller like Leopoldo Mendez and Pablo O'Higgins along with contemporary successors like Luis Jimenez, Rafael Tufino and Ester Hernandez. Hours: Wednesdays, noon to 9 p.m; Thursdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $3; $2 for students and the elderly (Holland Cotter).

"DISASTERS OF WAR: FRANCISCO DE GOYA, HENRY DARGER, JAKE AND DINOS CHAPMAN," P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center, 22-25 Jackson Avenue at 46th Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084 (through Feb. 25). Although they come from widely different times and places, the artists in this show share a theme: war and its horrors. Goya's masterpiece, the series of 83 etchings known as "The Disasters of War," is shown with 83 Goya-inspired etchings by the contemporary English artists Jake and Dinos Chapman, as well as blown-up photographs from the Chapmans' gruesome World War II tableau "Hell," on view in London. The wild card here is Henry Darger (1892-1973), an outsider artist whose maniacal vision of war was expressed in hundreds of watercolors depicting little girls pursued by ruthless male marauders. Darger's inclusion seems a bit of curatorial overreach, as his war was a personal crisis that began and ended in his mind. But the display of such a large slice of his work is the most rewarding reason for visiting this show. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $5 (Grace Glueck).

"LEONARDO DREW," Bronx Museum of the Arts, 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, (718) 681-6000 (through March 4). The large-scale two-part wall here continues a theme for which Mr. Drew is noted: subtly gridded three-dimensional compositions made of distressed wood, stacked boxes and various other materials, then coated with rust to simulate the encroachments of time and nature. The walls and the castoff objects they contain have an aura of gritty poverty, evoking hard times and marginal lives. But they also make high-art connections: the allover and actively layered surfaces alluding to Abstract Expressionism, the grids evoking the rigorous formalism of geometric abstraction. In the nine years since his first New York solo show, Mr. Drew's voice has not lost its eloquence, although the work has lost the fresh rawness that gave it its initial impact. Hours and admission: See above. (Glueck).

* "SOL LeWITT: A RETROSPECTIVE," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676 (through Feb. 25). Unexpectedly the most beautiful exhibition by a living artist in a New York museum in a long time and an antidote to the nonsense in several other museums around town. Just about every other wall is covered with wall drawings, alternately eye-popping and gossamer. Those out there (you know who you are) who flee any artist linked to Conceptualism may want to stop and re-evaluate your views after seeing what's here. The master of chaste white cubes has undergone a transformation since his last retrospective in the late 70's. Now opulence emerges from the same seemingly prosaic instructions he came up with years ago. The appeal is still to patient observation, a lesson for everyone, delivered elegantly. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays and Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $10; $8 for students and the elderly (Michael Kimmelman).

* "NINETEENTH- AND 20TH-CENTURY CHINESE PAINTINGS FROM THE ROBERT H. ELLSWORTH COLLECTION, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 879-5500 (through Aug. 19). The 19th and 20th centuries were shattering times for China, bringing wars, civil violence and the fall of an empire. In art old forms survived and flourished but also changed. This exhibition surveys how elite painting traditions developed for a new audience and under Western influences between 1850 to 1980. Among the highlights is a group of paintings by Qi Baishi (1864-1957), deservedly one of the most popular of all Chinese artists. The big news is that a major museum has quietly taken a firm stand on modern art in Asia, seeing it not as a postscript to a great tradition but as an integral, living part of the continuum. Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:15 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 8:45 p.m. Admission: $10; $5, students and the elderly (Cotter).

* "RAIN OF THE MOON: SILVER IN ANCIENT PERU," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through April 22). Symbols of power and prestige in ancient Peru, gold and silver were equally revered, and Peruvian metalsmiths acquired great skill in the techniques of working them. This show deals with silver, harder to capture and preserve than gold, dating from the late first millennium B.C. to the Spanish conquest in the 16th century. The objects range from nose ornaments and ear pieces, some of them amazingly large, to human and animal figures, like a famous Inka llama whose hanging fleece is evoked by the rippled, crumpled sheet of silver that covers its body. As most gold and silver objects in Peru were melted down by the Spanish conquistadors, this show -- half from the Met's collection and half from loans -- amounts to a bonanza. It is the first devoted to the subject of pre-Columbian Peruvian silver. Hours and admission: See above (Glueck).

* CHARLOTTE SALOMON, Jewish Museum, 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200 (through March 25). Put aside as much as possible the grim death that has boxed Salomon, like Anne Frank, into the eye-glazing, inviolate category of Holocaust artist, a disservice to her. "Life? Or Theater?," her quasi-fictional diary of text and nearly 800 pictures cued to musical themes, will make you feel you are in good company while flattering your intelligence. The allusions are varied, the tone at times surprisingly light. Film was a big inspiration to Salomon. Images vary among close-ups, flashbacks, long shots and montage. She had an illustrator's gift for distillation and paraphrase. The result is a complex meditation on the connection between love and art. It is a coming-of-age story about a woman squeezing a whole life into one great gesture. Ultimately the energy counts most, a civilizing energy. "Take good care of it," Salomon told the man to whom she entrusted the work before she was shipped to Auschwitz. "It is my whole life." So it was. Hours: Sundays through Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Tuesdays to 8 p.m. Admission: $8; $5.50 for students over 11 and the elderly (Kimmelman).

"ANDY WARHOL: PHOTOGRAPHY," International Center of Photography, 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 860-1777 (through March 18). When Warhol died in 1987, he left some 100,000 photographs in the form of prints, contact sheets and negatives. This exhibition is the first major examination of this material and focuses on its relationship to Warhol's photo-based paintings, early and late. Taken strictly as a display of photographs, the show feels a little thin, mostly because his output in the medium was almost willfully insubstantial. But as a fresh take on his hugely influential work and complex personality, the results are entertaining and sometimes revealing. Included is one of his "time capsules," cardboard boxes that he periodically filled with the material clutter of his life, then sealed, dated and stored away. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $8; $6 for students and the elderly (Cotter).

Galleries: Uptown

GENEVIEVE CADIEUX, Americas Society, 680 Park Avenue, at 68th Street, (212) 249-8950 (through Feb. 25). Each color photograph by this Montreal artist is like a moment from a slow, coolly romantic independent film. In two diptychs, beautiful, bigger-than-life lovers are separated by the gap between the panels. In one, he beseeches her, his hand extending into her space, but she looks away. Across the room is an eight-foot-square close-up of grass and purple clover. The mood is affecting, but oversize high-concept photography has become far too common (Ken Johnson).

* NINO MIGLIORI, "Neo-Realismo: Scenes of Life in Postwar Italy," Keith de Lellis Gallery, 47 East 68th Street, (212) 327-1482 (through March 3). Making you feel the camera wasn't there was one of the great attributes of the postwar Italian neo-Realist films like "Shoeshine" and "The Bicycle Thief." You tend to dismiss the artful camera, too, in Mr. Migliori's black-and-white stills, taken in the north and south of Italy from 1952 to 1959. Inspired by the great neo-Realist film directors, Mr. Migliori captured what might be called Italian quintessences in images that range from three pairs of women's white shoes clicking smartly along a sidewalk to a couple of monks playing volleyball, their long robes billowing about them as they leap (Glueck).

FRANK VON DER LANCKEN, "Artist and Educator," Hirschl & Adler, 21 East 70th Street, (212) 535-8810 (through Feb. 24). This well-produced exhibition brings to light a once well known but now largely forgotten American painter who trained in Paris, won medals in international exhibitions and from 1921 to 1936 directed the School of Arts and Crafts at the Chautauqua Institution. A skillful but less than adventurous painter, he made his best work -- modest, deftly painterly still lifes, portraits and light-dappled landscapes -- in the first two decades of the 20th century (Johnson).

* "WOMEN DESIGNERS IN THE U.S.A., 1900-2000: DIVERSITY AND DIFFERENCE," Bard Graduate Center for Studies in the Decorative Arts, 18 West 86th Street, (212) 501-3000 (through April 8). At the turn of the 20th century, female designers were mostly white, middle-class and skilled in "female" pursuits; today their ethnicity is widely diversified, and they have made enormous progress in fields once open only to men. Architecture, landscaping, interiors, furniture, textiles, apparel, posters, tableware, wallpaper, ceramics, lighting, jewelry, floor coverings, silverware, doors for cars, costumes and industrial products are represented in this bountiful show, which shoehorns some 220 objects into three floors of tight gallery space. Work by American Indians and African-Americans is given special attention (Glueck).

Galleries: 57th Street

EMMET GOWIN, "Close to Life: Photographs of Edith," Pace/McGill Gallery, 32 East 57th Street (212) 759-7999 (through Feb. 17). For nearly 40 years Mr. Gowin has been shooting his wife, Edith, at stages of the relentless journey from youth to age. Guileless, mostly unsmiling and often nude, she is caught in a variety of domestic roles and situations. What's moving in these superbly printed photographs is the recording of life's changes in the face, from the fresh anticipatory look of early youth to the weary, no-surprises expression with which age stamps it (Glueck).

PIERRE HUYGHE, Marian Goodman Gallery, 24 West 57th Street, (212) 977-7160 (through Feb. 14). Mr. Huyghe, from Paris, makes a striking New York solo debut with two recent short films that explore the fluid line between life and fiction. "The Third Memory" combines elements from the Hollywood film "Dog Day Afternoon" (1975) with memories of the attempted Brooklyn bank robbery on which that movie was based. "Two Minutes Out of Time" provides a Japanese-produced 3-D digital cartoon with a poignant human story. Cartoon fantasy and real emotions meet; history is simultaneously documented and invented, with a light touch and unsentimental cool (Cotter).

* "OUR BEAUTIFUL AND TORMENTED AUSTRIA: ART BRUT IN THE LAND OF FREUD," Galerie St. Etienne, 24 West 57th Street, (212) 245-6734 (through March 17). This extraordinary show introduces the recently discovered work of two self-taught Viennese artists: Emanuel Navratil (1875-1956), who made large color-pencil drawings that transform his native city into a magical kingdom of fantasy architecture, intricate pattern and bourgeois contentment; and Josef Karl Radler (1844-1917), a retired porcelain painter whose fusions of writing and painting infuse scenes of the hospital where he spent his final years with a power akin to illuminated manuscripts (Smith).

Galleries: SoHo

"HANDS ACROSS THE SEA," Phyllis Kind Gallery, 136 Greene Street, (212) 925-1200 (through March 15). Arranged in a series of telling, often surprising comparisons between American and European self-taught artists, this exhibition demonstrates that there is plenty of reason to stretch Jean Dubuffet's original definition of Art Brut beyond its original European perimeters (Smith).

GERALD MONROE, Donahue/Sosinski Art, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 226-1111 (through Feb. 24). A deft colorist, Mr. Monroe takes off in these abstract canvases from the shifts and interactions of forms in piles of dead leaves. His spirited arrangements involve subtle interplays of shape and hue. Although the works are abstract, they sometimes make references to nature, as in "Mecoxx," a bright blue ground that gleams with orange and aqua-green brushings that suggest the surface of water. What's particularly pleasing is the exuberance with which he brings off his intricate color play (Glueck).

MARTIN WONG, "Storefronts, 1984-86," P.P.O.W., 476 Broome Street, (212) 941-8642 (through Feb. 24). The large canvases depicting Lower East Side storefronts with padlocked gates and dark windows by a Chinese-American painter who died in 1999 have an impressive formal presence and a touching, Hopperesque melancholy. In each, a near life-size facade fills the canvas edge to edge like a Jasper Johns flag. Brusquely painted, palpably realistic, the paintings balance the material and the illusory, the social and the poetic (Johnson).

Galleries: Chelsea

RICCI ALBENDA, "Tesseract," Andrew Kreps Gallery, 516A West 20th Street, (212) 741-8849 (through March 3). Mr. Albenda's installation consists of a white, space-filling geometric form floating in the center of the gallery. Sleek curved reliefs, looking both anatomical and mechanical, bulge from the walls; one entire wall is a negative relief in the shape of a receding box, suggesting perspectival movement toward a vanishing point. Technically, the work is a little awkward, but it's packed with ideas about sculpture as architecture, about the chaste but not so innocent "white cube" exhibition space, about Modernism's mystical, utopian fourth-dimension. Mr. Albenda neatly distances himself from specific utopian ideas. But he also hints that he takes seriously the existence of such ideas (Cotter).

AZIZ + CUCHER, "Chimeras, Interiors, Naturalia," Henry Urbach, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 627-0974 (through Feb. 24). Known for their digitally mutated human images, Aziz + Cucher here present slick photographic images of vacant architectural spaces and mysterious mechanical objects, both of which have surfaces of human skin: moles, pores, follicles and all. The collapse of boundaries between the human and the inanimate is funny and, one fears, chillingly prophetic (Johnson).

ANDREW BICK, LiebmanMagnan, 552 West 24th Street, (212) 255-3225 (through Feb. 24). The way this English painter toys with form calls to mind Jonathan Lasker, Bryce Marden and Terry Winters. Nevertheless, his layering of wax, paint, hard-edged rectangles and scrawled grids has its own playful intelligence and sensuous physicality (Johnson).

GERNOT LINDNER, Annina Nosei, 530 West 22nd Street, (212) 741-8695 (through March 3). Mr. Lindner's large color photographs appear at first to be big-sky wilderness landscapes perfectly mirrored by glassy lake surfaces. Then you notice discrepancies between the upper half and the lower and realize that the lower half is actually an inverted copy -- or near copy -- of the upper. The pictures thus hover between soulful tranquillity and vacuous gimmickry (Johnson).

ROBERT LONGO, "The Freud Drawings," Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street, (212) 206-7100 (through March 3). Mr. Longo's new monumental charcoal drawings are based on photographs taken of Sigmund Freud's home in 1938 shortly before he fled to London. The drawings are competently made with strong contrasts between velvety blacks and glaring whites; if they are compelling, however, it is because they trigger highly charged associations. Thus, through the spiritually cheap act of appropriation, the artist lays claim to an unearned moral profundity (Johnson).

* JONATHAN PYLYPCHUK, Friedrich Petzel Gallery, 535 West 22nd Street, (212) 680-9467 (through Feb. 17). Combining the scale and heft of 1980's painting with the pathos of 90's abject art -- and lots of plywood scrap with old wallpaper, fabric, sand, glitter and much else -- this young artist from Los Angeles makes enormous collagelike paintings that suggest a Hallmark Cards/outsider art reprise of Synthetic Cubism. They are inhabited by tiny puppetlike figures whose disjointed exchanges communicate a dislocation in tune with the physical hodgepodge, and an air of inconsolability as big as the vast landscape spaces the hodgepodge so deftly depicts (Smith).

"SPECIFICALLY PAINTING," Edward Thorp, 210 11th Avenue, at 25th Street, (212) 691-6565 (through Feb. 17). This pluralistic show gives a good answer to why we still need painting: unlike machine-made art, it registers individual sensibility with infinite sensitivity. It includes Shawn Spencer's brushy and bizarre paintings of foxes; wide, blue, airy abstractions by Dorota Kolodziejczyk; materially sensuous, hard-edged geometry by Andrew Spence; Julia Wachtel's fusion of feminism, Pop and action painting; spiral doodling expanded into cosmic vision by Dave Perry; neat, richly colored biomorphism by Jenifer Kobylarz; and elegant, whiplash calligraphy frozen in space by Lisa Stefanelli (Johnson).

Other Galleries

DENNIS OPPENHEIM, Ace Gallery, 275 Hudson Street, South Village, (212) 255-5599 (through Feb. 28). This medium-size, occasionally amusing survey is what you would expect: a fun-house mixture of documentary photographs, booming electronics, videos, cockamamie sculpture and installations. The art is, at heart, about how hard it is to make art. Among the early works is a mechanized marionette, "Attempt to Raise Hell" (1974), a self-portrait that smashes its head into a big cast-iron bell. Frustration, anger and violence have been Mr. Oppenheim's creative touchstones, along with a sense of humor. His legacy is to have turned futility into a medium, a singular plan, sometimes effective, but often not memorable enough visually (Kimmelman).

CRISTIAN SILVA AND GRAZIA TODERI, The Project, 427 West 126th Street, Harlem, (212) 662-8610 (through Feb. 18). Much of Mr. Silva's first solo show in the United States is a surreal portrait of his homeland, Chile, made up of political "in" jokes about class and politics. Two pieces with a broader global reach stand out: a multilingual collage of "Incredible Hulk" comic book clippings and a wall piece, made of nails, string and cast shadow, in which the words "indestructible" and "vulnerable" merge. Upstairs is a DVD projection titled "Olympia" by Ms. Toderi, an Italian artist, offering just a taste of an intriguing body of her video work. The single, slowly rotating image of the Olympic stadium in Sydney during a nighttime rock concert looks like a great moist flower, a nebula and a mother ship about to lift off or descend (Cotter).

Last Chance

* "BIALA AND BRUSTLEIN: A SELECTION OF PAINTINGS," Kouros Gallery, 23 East 73rd Street, (212) 288-5888 (through tomorrow). This sweet exhibition of paintings from the 1930's to the 80's by Janice Tworkov Ford Brustlein, who died in September at 96, and her husband, Daniel Brustlein (1904-1996). While they lived most of their married life in Paris, their professional activities were centered in New York, where she exhibited regularly under the name Biala, and he painted covers for The New Yorker, which he signed Alain. This selection of landscapes, portraits and interiors shows a shared affinity for sophisticated color, formal abbreviation of the observed world and pungent brushwork. The works tend to invite a case-by-case tallying of hits and misses but the final score suggests that a more thorough, carefully selected survey of both artists, alone or together, would be more than justified (Smith).

PIERRE CARBONEL, "Combat de Densites Liquides," Luise Ross, 568 Broadway, at Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 343-2161 (through tomorrow). Mr. Carbonel, a Frenchman born in 1925, started drawing on his own in midlife and then was inspired and encouraged by Jean Dubuffet. Mixing various kinds of paints, inks, oils and dyes, he produced evocative, surrealistic abstractions suggestive of lumpy humanoid creatures or otherworldly geological formations. The works on paper in this show tend to a richly textured gray palette, except for one with a strangely intense turquoise hue and another in coppery green (Johnson).

FRED CRAY, Richard Anderson, 453 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 463-0970 (through tomorrow). On a recent trip to Europe, Mr. Cray ran rolls of film through his camera four times, producing densely layered multiple exposures of people, buildings, artworks and signs. He enlarged selected frames and coated them with wax, creating flickering, obscurely complicated images that are like elusive dreams or fading memories (Johnson).

NORMAN LEWIS, UFA, 526 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 633-2735 (through tomorrow). Having begun in the 1930's as a Social Realist focused on African-American experience, Lewis (1909-1979) made his mark as a painter of Modernist abstractions. The most compelling pieces in these works on paper from his last four decades are cosmically suggestive compositions of dark, misty spaces punctuated by razor-edged creases (Johnson).

* "MASTERPIECES FROM THE VITRA DESIGN MUSEUM: FURNISHING THE MODERN ERA," Smithsonian Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum, 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400 (through Sunday). All from the collection of the Vitra Design Museum in Weil am Rhein, Germany, this staggering survey of "modern" chairs, most from 1925 to the 1980's, runs from popular mass-market numbers that everyone has parked in, like the tubby fiberglass shell chair designed by Charles and Ray Eames in 1938, to elite neo-Baroque structures like Alessandro Mendini's 1978 "Proust," a wonderfully haughty looking chair absurdly covered with fabric painted in a pointillist swarm of dots. The show traces the innovative use of factory technologies by cutting-edge architects and designers who saw furniture design as part of their Modernist mandate. Hours: Tuesdays, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Wednesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Admission: $8; $5 for students and the elderly (Glueck).

"THE FINE ART OF LETTERS: THE WORK OF HERMANN ZAPF," Grolier Club, 47 East 60th Street, (212) 838-6690 (through tomorrow). Although revered within the closely related worlds of type design, calligraphy and fine book publishing, Zapf is all but unknown to the millions who see his work every day. His alphabets are among the core fonts on most Macintosh and Microsoft computers; his revolutionary sans-serif typeface, Optima, is ubiquitous in publishing and advertising and was used on Maya Lin's Vietnam War Memorial. This dense, elegant survey includes examples of original broadsides and limited-edition silk-screen prints that showcase Mr. Zapf's gifts as a calligrapher, as well as type specimens, dust jackets, title pages and copies of his influential manuals (Smith).

* "MOROCCO: JEWS AND ART IN A MUSLIM LAND," Jewish Museum, 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200 (through Sunday). When Arab Muslims arrived in Morocco, Jews had already been living there for centuries, and the two cultures formed a cooperative and uneasy bond. Their relationship is explored in this show, which offers a little bit of many things, mostly dating from the 19th and 20th centuries. In elaborate jewelry, shimmering textiles, liturgical objects and folk amulets, Jewish and Islamic ingredients often form a distinctive hybrid blend. A selection of European Orientalist paintings by Delacroix among others provides a firsthand outsider view of a once vibrant interaction. Hours and admission: See above (Cotter).

CAROLEE SCHNEEMANN, "More Wrong Things," White Box, 525 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 714-2347 (through tomorrow). Ms. Schneeman, who has spent a career resolutely bucking art fashions, stays personal and political with this installation. Video monitors are hung in the center of the darkened gallery, connected by a web of cables. The images are of depredations of all kinds, natural and unnatural, from documentary film of military atrocities in Bosnia to home movies of what the family pet dragged in (Cotter).

"SELECTIONS WINTER 2001," Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 219-2166 (through tomorrow). Standouts in this miscellaneous selection of works on paper by an international roster of nine artists include Royce Howes, who makes subtle, oddly distorted images by collaging newspaper photographs; Corey McCorkle, whose magically illusionistic collages appear to be layered translucent drafting stencils; Carolyn Swiszcz, whose planar, brightly colored cityscapes call to mind early David Hockney; and Scott Teplin, a wonderful miniaturist who fills notebooks with comically eccentric words and pictures (Johnson).

GRAPHIC: Photos: A still from Pierre Huyghe's film "Two Minutes Out of Time," part of his New York solo debut at Marian Goodman on West 57th Street. (Marian Goodman Gallery); Lin Fengmian's "Odalesque," in "Chinese Paintings" at the Met. (Metropolitan Museum of Art) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); ART COLLECTING (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (66%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (50%); MUSIC (50%); ETHNICITY (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); MEXICO (90%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2001 



222 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 4; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 3199 words

HEADLINE: SPARE TIMES 

 BODY:
 ATTRACTIONS

Museums and Sites

HISTORIC RICHMONDTOWN, Staten Island Historical Society, 441 Clarke Avenue, Richmondtown. More than 25 buildings from the late 17th to the 19th century, restored and furnished. This village and outdoor museum depict the history of Staten Island and the surrounding region. The exhibition "Toys!" will run through December. Guided tours are available. Tavern concert series, Friday nights at 7:30 and 9, Johnson Girls, five women who perform traditional and contemporary folk music, especially sea chanteys and other maritime music. Tickets: $10, includes a drink; prepaid reservations required. Sunday at 3 p.m., "The Journey to Freedom," a lecture by Annette Marks-Ellis, in commemoration of Black History Month. Free, but reservations are suggested. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Admission: $4; the elderly, children 6 to 18 and students, $2.50; 5 and under, free. Information: (718) 351-1611.

INTREPID SEA-AIR-SPACE MUSEUM, Pier 86, West 46th Street at the Hudson River, Clinton. The Intrepid is a converted World War II aircraft carrier with two full decks of displays, including four theme halls: United States Navy Hall, Pioneer Hall, Technologies Hall and Intrepid Hall. "Prepare to Dive: The 100th Anniversary of the Navy's First Submarine," an exhibition about the pioneering days of the submarine; "Mission Control: From the Space Race to the Space Shuttle," an interactive exhibition exploring the Mercury, Gemini, Apollo and shuttle programs; continuing. "Korea: The Forgotten War, Remembered," through September. Admission: $12; the elderly, veterans, reservists and ages 12 to 17, $9; ages 6 to 11, $6; ages 2 to 5, $2; under 2, free; wheelchair patrons, half price. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Information: (212) 245-0072.

MUSEUM OF CHINESE IN THE AMERICAS, 70 Mulberry Street, Chinatown. On permanent display is "Where Is Home? Chinese in the Americas," a collection of photographs and other artifacts, and "Family Portraits," photographs of Chinatown residents. "Tong Zhi/Comrade: Out in Asia America," an exhibition of works by Ken Chu addressing sexual orientation among the Chinese; through April 14. "Chinatowns in North America," a new CD-ROM installation featuring photographs by William Chu; on permanent display. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, noon to 5 p.m.; closed on holidays. Admission: $3; the elderly and students, $1; 12 and under and museum members, free. Information: (212) 619-4785.

MUSEUM OF JEWISH HERITAGE: A LIVING MEMORIAL TO THE HOLOCAUST, 18 First Place, at West Street and Battery Place, Battery Park City, Lower Manhattan. Artifacts, documents, photographs, videos and film clips are included in exhibitions on the Holocaust and on Jewish life before and after World War II. "Cyprus to Haifa, 1949: Photographs by Paula Horn Kotis," through Feb. 25. Hours: Sundays through Wednesdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays until 8 p.m.; Fridays and the eves of Jewish holidays, 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.; closed Saturdays. Admission: $7; students and the elderly, $5; children 5 and under, free. Tickets can be bought through Ticketmaster, (212) 307-4007, or by calling the museum on the day of the visit, (212) 945-0039. Information: (212) 509-6130.

MUSEUM OF TELEVISION AND RADIO, 25 West 52nd Street, Manhattan. A collection of taped radio and television broadcasts and exhibitions in other mediums, including drawings, posters and photographs. Monday from 6 to 7:30 p.m., Thomas Schlamme, director of "The West Wing," will present highlights and an overview of his career. Tickets: $10 ($8 for members). During February the museum is celebrating Black History Month with programs from the 1960's to the 90's; Tuesdays through Sundays at 12:15 p.m. Programs this weekend: today, "Of Black American: The Black Soldier" (1968) and for younger viewers, Shelley Duvall's "Tall Tales and Legends: John Henry." Tomorrow, "Mo' Funny: Black Comedy in America" (1993). Sunday, American Playhouse: Julie Dash's "Daughters of the Dust" (1991). "Super Bowl: Super Showcase for Commercials," television ads shown during the Super Bowl since 1984; today through Sunday at 1 p.m. "From Class Clown to Social Critic: The Television Comedy of George Carlin," featuring 30 years of his work; Tuesdays through Sundays at 3 p.m., with additional screenings on Thursday nights at 6 and Friday nights at 7; through March 4. Museum hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays until 8 p.m. On Fridays the theater is open until 9 p.m. Admission: $6; students and the elderly, $4; ages 12 and under, $3. Information: (212) 621-6800.

NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN, Alexander Hamilton United States Customs House, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan. Continuing exhibitions: "All Roads Are Good: Native Voices on Life and Culture," presenting more than 300 objects from the museum's collection chosen by 23 American Indians. "Beauty, Honor and Tradition: The Legacy of Plains Indian Shirts," featuring 49 shirts from the collection; through July 2. Hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays until 8 p.m. Free. Information: (212) 514-3888.

NEW YORK TRANSIT MUSEUM, Boerum Place and Schermerhorn Street, downtown Brooklyn. Opening Tuesday, "History in Motion: 25 Years of Collecting at the New York Transit Museum," through April 29. Continuing exhibitions include "Ceramic Ornamentation," a look at the mosaics, tiles and terra cotta used to adorn subway stations since 1904; "Here to There: Signs for Moving Around Underground," a display of more than 100 subway signs. Nineteen restored subway cars dating from 1903 to 1960 are also on view. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Admission: $3; the elderly and ages 6 to 17, $1.50; 5 and under, free. Free for the elderly on Wednesdays from noon to 4 p.m. Information: (718) 243-8601. At the New York Transit Museum Gallery at Grand Central Terminal, "All Aboard!," an exhibition of vintage scale models of classic American and European trains; through March 31. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; closed Sundays. Information: (212) 878-0106.

WORLD FINANCIAL CENTER, North Bridge, 200 Liberty Street, between West and Vesey Streets, Lower Manhattan. "The Best of Slovak and Czech Art," featuring works by young artists in the Slovak and Czech Republics; through March 3. Free. Information: (212) 945-0505.

Gardens

BROOKLYN BOTANIC GARDEN, 1000 Washington Avenue, Crown Heights. More than 12,000 kinds of plants from around the world are displayed on 52 acres. In February South African bulbs are in bloom in the Steinhardt Conservatory. The Japanese Hill and Pond Garden is open, and guided tours are available. Other events: free garden tours Saturdays and Sundays at 1 p.m.; meet at the Visitors Center. Admission: $3; $1.50 for students and the elderly; free for children 15 and under; free for all on Tuesdays, except holidays; free from 10 a.m. to noon on Saturdays. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. The conservatory closes 30 minutes before the grounds. Information: (718) 623-7200.

NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN, Southern Boulevard and 200th Street, Bedford Park, the Bronx. Includes 48 specialty gardens and plant collections. "Nature's Pharmacy: Plants That Heal," a botanical exhibition featuring medicinal and economically important plants in the Haupt Conservatory, including an audio tour narrated by garden scientists; through March 11. Through March 18 in the children's garden, "Family Fun With Tropical Treasures," which explains how to make chewing gum using the sap of the spodilla tree and how leaf shapes help plants survive in a rain forest. Tomorrow and Sunday at 1 and 3 p.m., "Whispers From the Wild," storytelling celebrating Black History Month, featuring Nilda Garces, and "The Laughing River, an African Folk Tale for Peace." Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 1 to 4 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays and holidays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Bird walks Saturdays and Sundays at 12:30 p.m. Forest tours, Thursdays at 1 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays at noon. Tram tours, daily, every 30 minutes. Garden highlights tours, Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays at 1 p.m. Grounds hours: Tuesdays through Sundays and Monday holidays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Botanical Garden admission: $3; students and the elderly, $2; children 2 to 12, $1; under 2, free. Conservatory admission: $5; students and the elderly, $4; children 2 to 12, $3; under 2, free. Adventure Garden admission: $3; students and the elderly, $2; children 2 to 12, $1; under 2, free. Grounds admission free for all on Wednesdays and from 10 a.m. to noon on Saturdays. Parking: $5. The best way to see the garden is with a garden passport combination ticket, which grants admission to the entire grounds and includes a tram tour: adults, $10; students and the elderly, $7.50; children 2 to 12, $4; under 2, free. Information: (718) 817-8700.

RECREATION

"VALENTINE'S DAY TWOSOME," Central Park. Featuring two runs: a 10-kilometer and a two-miler. Tomorrow at 9:30 a.m., beginning on the West Drive at 62nd Street. Sponsored by the New York Road Runners Club. Advance fee: $34; $24 for club members; $20 for junior and senior club members. Race-day registration: $44; $30 for club members; $24 for junior and senior members. Information: (212) 860-4455.

SQUASH TOURNAMENT, Grand Central Terminal's Vanderbilt Hall. The "CSFBDirect Tournament of Champions" runs through today. Matches begin at 7 p.m.; there is also a free public squash clinic today at 4 p.m. Seating ranges from $20 to $50; standing spectators can watch the action free. Tickets and other information: (718) 488-6262.

EVENTS

"BLACK HISTORY MONTH 2001: IN CELEBRATION OF BROOKLYN'S AFRICAN-AMERICANS," a bus tour of historic sites including the Lafayette Presbyterian Church, which has ties to the Underground Railroad, and the Weeksville community, an area settled by freed slaves in the 19th century. Meets tomorrow at 10:30 a.m. at the rear of the Marriott Hotel, on Jay Street, in downtown Brooklyn; by subway, it is closest to the Jay Street-Borough Hall stop on the A train. Fee, $35, which includes lunch. Sponsored by the Brooklyn Historical Society. Registration: (718) 254-9830, extension 26.

"AFRICAN-AMERICAN HISTORY -- WHERE WE WERE AND WHERE WE ARE IN QUEENS AND BEYOND," Flushing Public Library, 41-17 Main Street, Queens. A free panel discussion with local politicians, religious leaders and arts administrators. Sunday at 2 p.m. Sponsored by the Queens Historical Society. Information: (718) 939-0647.

"ROMANCE AT THE FARMHOUSE," Dyckman Farmhouse Museum, Broadway and 204th Street, Inwood. Readings from the love letters of the Dyckmans during tours of the house. Sunday at 1 and 2:30 p.m. Donation, $3. Information: (212) 304-9422.

WALKING TOURS

"TIMES SQUARE AND HOW IT GOT THAT WAY." A tour of the area with emphasis on theater history, architecture, urban planning and commercialization. Meets today at 11 a.m. on the the northwest corner of 47th Street and Avenue of the Americas. Fee: $10; $8 for students, the elderly and members of the Municipal Art Society. Sponsored by the Municipal Art Society. Information: (212) 935-3960.

"JAZZ NIGHTS IN HARLEM." A tour of the area followed by dinner at Sylvia's restaurant and a stop at a jazz club. Meets tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30 inside Starbucks on the northeast corner of Lenox Avenue and 125th Street. Fee: $65. Sponsored by Harlem Heritage Tours. Reservations: (212) 280-7888.

"GREENWICH VILLAGE AND SOHO: OFF THE BEATEN PATH." Combines tastings at local ethnic restaurants and specialty food stores with a stroll and a discussion of the history of the area. Tuesdays through Sundays at 11 a.m. Sponsored by Foods of New York. Fee: $30 (includes food and wine tasting). Information and meeting place: (877) 603-7049.

"GREENWICH VILLAGE LITERARY PUB CRAWL." Combines readings of works by noted writers with stops at the bars many of them frequented. Meets Saturdays at 2 p.m. at the White Horse Tavern, 567 Hudson Street, West Village. Sponsored by the New Ensemble Theater Company. Fee: $12; $9 for students and the elderly. (Refreshments not included.) Reservations: (212) 613-5796.

"BLAME IT ON THE BOSSA NOVA: THE AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS IN THE 1950's AND 1960's." An architectural and historical look at the Avenue of the Americas with stops at the Time-Life building, CBS building and monuments in Bolivar Plaza. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. at the southeast corner of Avenue of the Americas and 42nd Street. Fee: $15; $12 for members of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Municipal Art Society. Sponsored by the Municipal Art Society. Information: (212) 935-3960.

GRAMERCY PARK AND UNION SQUARE. The tour revisits the once fashionable theater district of Union Square. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. at the George Washington statue on the 14th Street side of Union Square. Fee: $12, $10 for students and the elderly. Sponsored by Big Onion Walking Tours. Information: (212) 439-1090.

"HARLEM CITY WALK." A five-mile walk through the districts of Mount Morris and Hamilton Heights with stops at the Hamilton Grange National Monument, St. Nicholas Park, the City College campus and Striver's Row. Meets tomorrow at 12:30 p.m. in the waiting room at Metro North's 125th Street station at Park Avenue. Fee: $3; free for members. Sponsored by the Outdoors Club. Information: (212) 348-5344.

"HIKE NEW YORK CITY," a six- to eight-mile hike of Manhattan, Midtown and Downtown, with commentary on its history and folklore. Meets tomorrow at 10 a.m. at the visitors' entrance to the United Nations, First Avenue and 45th Street. Fee: $25 plus refreshments. Led by Michael Kaback. Information: (212) 370-4214.

"WALKS IN OLD CHELSEA." A look at the stately buildings in the area and the stories behind them. Meets tomorrow at 2 p.m in front of the Flatiron Building, Broadway and 23rd Street. Fee: $10. Sponsored by Street Smarts N.Y. Information: (212) 969-8262.

"FOREVER FASHIONABLE FLATIRON," Manhattan, shows how the area has been a popular shopping destination for 100 years. Meets tomorrow at 2 p.m. in front of the Flatiron Building at the intersection of Broadway, Fifth Avenue and 23rd Street. Fee: $10. Sponsored by Street Smarts N.Y. Information: (212) 969-8262.

"ELEGANCE AND ALE: A GASLIGHT-ERA PUB CRAWL," Greenwich Village. A tour of sites in the Village, the Flatiron district and Gramercy Park. Meets tomorrow at 6 p.m. at the Washington Arch. Fee: $10; refreshments not included. Sponsored by Street Smarts New York. Information: (212) 969-8262.

"EDGAR ALLAN POE AND HIS GHOSTLY FRIENDS," Greenwich Village and East Village. Explore the neighborhoods and learn about the ghosts of Poe, Peter Stuyvesant and others. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. outside the Second Avenue Deli, 156 Second Avenue, at 10th Street. Fee: $12. Sponsored by Dr. Phil's New York Talks and Walks. Information: (888) 377-4455.

"THE GREENWICH VILLAGE VALENTINE AND DESSERT TOUR." Visits sites associated with romance in books, film and history as well as places to eat sweets. Stops include the Victorian town house where Woodrow Wilson proposed to Edith Galt and the site of the first presidential wedding. Meets tomorrow and Sunday at noon and 2:30 p.m. Fee: $16 (includes food). Sponsored by NYC Discovery Tours. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 465-3331.

"DANDIES, DUDES AND SHADY LADIES," Lower Manhattan. A look back at old New York and the seamier sides of SoHo and the Bowery. Includes adult subject matter. Meets Sunday at 2 p.m. at the subway kiosk at Astor Place. Fee: $10. Sponsored by Street Smarts N.Y. Information: (212) 969-8262.

"SOHO -- YESTERDAY AND TODAY" covers architecture, landmarks and history. Includes the sites where Mary Todd Lincoln shopped and where George Washington was nearly assassinated. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. at the southeast corner of Houston Street and Broadway. Fee: $10. Sponsored by I'll Take Manhattan Tours. Information: (732) 270-5277.

"GREENWICH VILLAGE GHOSTS GALORE." Includes stops at the site of the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire and a firehouse, the Hanging Elm, a town house and a restaurant, all said to be haunted. Meets tomorrow at 10:30 a.m. on the southwest corner of Fifth Avenue and Eighth Street. Fee: $5. Sponsored by Adventure on a Shoestring. Information: (212) 265-2663.

"HELL'S KITCHEN HIKE" tours the Midtown Manhattan area now known as Clinton. Meets tomorrow at 4:15 p.m. on the northeast corner of Eighth Avenue and 48th Street. Fee: $5. Sponsored by Adventure on a Shoestring. Information: (212) 265-2663.

"MILLIONAIRE'S ROW," Manhattan. A tour of the residential buildings and private clubs of Midtown, including the Pierre Hotel, Metropolitan Club and the former homes of Nelson A. Rockefeller and Danny Kaye. Meets tomorrow at 2:15 p.m. at the northeast corner of Fifth Avenue and 59th Street. Fee: $5. Sponsored by Adventure on a Shoestring. Meeting place and reservations: (212) 265-2663.

"SPLENDID GRAND CENTRAL TERMINAL." A tour of the railroad station, which has undergone a $200 million renovation. Stops include the former private apartment of John W. Campbell, the new East Balcony and the sites where "North by Northwest," "The Fisher King," "Superman" and "Midnight Run" were filmed. Meets tomorrow at 12:15 p.m. at the northeast corner of 42nd Street and Lexington Avenue. Fee: $5. Sponsored by Adventure on a Shoestring. Information: (212) 265-2663.

"MULTIETHNIC EATING TOUR," a gastronomic walk through the Lower East Side, Chinatown and Little Italy. Meets Sunday at 1 p.m. at the southeast corner of Essex and Delancey Streets, Lower East Side. Sponsored by Big Onion Walking Tours. Fee: $15 (includes food); $13 for students and the elderly. Reservations requested: (212) 439-1090.

"HISTORIC LOWER MANHATTAN." This walking tour explores landmarks and historic sites of Colonial New York, with stops at the first Capitol and a building where George Washington slept. Meets Sunday at 1 p.m. on the front steps of the Alexander Hamilton United States Customs House, 1 Bowling Green. Fee: $10. Sponsored by I'll Take Manhattan Tours. Information: (732) 270-5277.

"LITERARY GARRETS OF GREENWICH VILLAGE." Visits the homes or other places of significance in the lives of Theodore Dreiser, Edna St. Vincent Millay, Edgar Allan Poe, Marianne Moore and others. Meets Sunday at 1 p.m. in front of the Jefferson Market Library, Avenue of the Americas and 10th Street. Fee: $12. Sponsored by Dr. Phil: New York Talks and Walks. Information: (888) 377-4455.

HARLEM GOSPEL TOUR. Features a gospel music performance and stops at cultural institutions in the area. Meets Sunday at 10 a.m. on the southwest corner of Lenox Avenue and 116th Street. Fee: $25. Sponsored by Harlem Heritage Tours. Information: (212) 280-7888.

"A VALENTINE FOR STANFORD WHITE." Visits sites in the Madison Square area associated with the life of the American designer. Meets Sunday at 11 a.m. on the northeast corner of Madison Avenue and 26th Street. Fee: $15; $12 for members of the Municipal Art Society. Sponsored by the Municipal Art Society. Information: (212) 935-3960.

GRAPHIC: Photo: WALKING TOURS -- The Flatiron Building is the starting point tomorrow for two tours, of Chelsea buildings and of the area as a shopping spot. (Museum of the City of New York) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); HISTORY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (88%); HOLOCAUST (87%); WORLD WAR II (87%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (76%); NAVIES (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (74%); SPACE EXPLORATION (72%); DRINKING PLACES (71%); MILITARY VESSELS (71%); NAVAL VESSELS (71%); ARMED FORCES (66%); JEWS & JUDAISM (62%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: STATEN ISLAND HISTORICAL SOCIETY (84%); US NAVY (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2001 



223 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE ART 

BYLINE:  By Carol Vogel 

 BODY:
Whitney's '02 Biennial
 When Maxwell L. Anderson was faced with organizing his first Biennial at the Whitney Museum of American Art two years ago, he was new and reorganizing his curatorial team. Some curators had been pushed out; others had resigned. So Mr. Anderson, the museum's director, appointed a group of outsiders to produce the survey that the Whitney presents every two years to chart American contemporary art. Until then, one of the Whitney's own had always organized the Biennial. 
 This week Mr. Anderson named Larry Rinder, the Whitney's curator of contemporary art, as chief organizer for the next Biennial, which is to open in March 2002. Chrissie Iles, the museum's curator of film and video, will select the film and video portion. Performance and sound art will be overseen by Debra Singer, associate curator of contemporary art. 
Mr. Rinder will also put together a group of advisers from across the country. (In past years, Biennial organizers have used consultants to give the show a broad perspective.)
"We would call last time the exception," Mr. Anderson said. "But every Biennial is different."
People love to hate the Biennial. It has long been criticized for reflecting too much of the sensibility of a cliquish New York art establishment and not enough contemporary art across the country. But the last Biennial, with its six curators from everywhere but New York, was said to have been bland, too obviously striving for diversity. Mr. Anderson doubts that "this Biennial will have an overt theme," he said. "But it may have an overall sensibility."

Modern to Sell Photos
After a recent buying spree, the Museum of Modern Art's photography department has decided to auction about 350 duplicates in its permanent collection. The sale, at Sotheby's in Manhattan on April 25, is expected to bring $3 million to $4 million. In the last two months the Modern has acquired two major photography collections: 328 modernist works belonging to Thomas Walther, a German-born collector, and 1,000 prints by Lee Friedlander, a 66-year-old photographer.
"We periodically prune our collections," said Glenn D. Lowry, the Modern's director. "The proceeds will go toward strengthening our acquisitions fund." 
Sotheby's sale will include photographs taken in the first half of the 20th century by masters like Edward Steichen, Alfred Stieglitz, Walker Evans and Man Ray.
"The Modern is the art museum that put photography into an art setting," said Denise Bethel, director of Sotheby's photography department in New York. When the Modern started its photography department in 1940, it was the first museum in the United States to do so.
"Much of what we're selling charts the relationship these photographers had with the Modern," Ms. Bethel said. In some cases early exhibitions helped establish their reputations.
The use of the word duplicate is misleading, Ms. Bethel added. "The top photographs in this sale are so rare that it's inconsequential that the Modern would have another," she said. In the print world, the term duplicate connotes dozens of images that are exactly the same, but with certain photos only 2 or, at most, 10 duplicates of an image exist.
Among the highlights of the sale are Steichen's 1898 self-portrait, estimated to bring $150,000 to $250,000. "It's so rare, I only know of two others," she said. "One is at the Met, and the other in a private collection."
The sale will also include Walker Evans's image of a photographer's studio, "Penny Picture Display, Savannah" (1936), which is expected to sell for $150,000 to $200,000. There are also 11 photographs of Paris by Eugene Atget; one, a view of Notre Dame, is expected to sell for $20,000 to $30,000.

2 Houses Guess Right
Sotheby's and Christie's made a big move when they changed the dates of their important Impressionist, modern and contemporary auctions in London from December to February. Their thinking was that the change would give their experts more time to put together the sales, since such auctions in New York have always been held in November. Executives at the auction houses had speculated that collectors might feel slightly more flush in February since their Christmas bills presumably would be paid and spring would be just around the corner.
How right they were. The auctions achieved solid prices. While the artworks weren't as impressive as they had been in the November sales in New York, they were selected more carefully, and fewer works went unsold.
A. Alfred Taubman, the former chairman of Sotheby's and its major controlling shareholder, had a particularly successful week. He is the sole focus of the current Justice Department investigation of collusion and price-fixing between Sotheby's and its archrival Christie's. While Mr. Taubman denies any wrongdoing, he has agreed to pay $156 million of Sotheby's portion of a $512 million class-action settlement along with $30 million to settle a shareholders' lawsuit. He also faces mounting legal fees resulting from the investigations.
In November he failed to sell parts of his art collection in New York. But this week a painting and a drawing by Egon Schiele that he owned both brought record prices for that artist's work. The painting, a 1909 portrait of Anton Peschka, Schiele's brother-in-law, fetched $11.3 million. The drawing, "Embrace" (1917), brought $2.6 million. Dealers at the sale said the portrait was bought by Nick Acquavella, son of the New York dealer William Acquavella. The buyers at the sale for the most part were international, not regular Schiele collectors like Ronald S. Lauder.
"The environment was different than it had been in November," said Franck Giraud, head of Impressionist and modern art for Christie's worldwide. "The elections are behind us, and people feel more positive."
Melanie Clore, Sotheby's director of Impressionist and contemporary art worldwide, said she noticed a significant increase in buying from Europe and Southeast Asia. "It illustrates the increasing strength of the European economies," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Notre Dame, by Eugene Atget, one of 11 of his photos the Modern will sell at Sotheby's. (Sotheby's New York) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); AUCTIONS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); BOARD CHANGES (77%) ART; PHOTOGRAPHY; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); AUCTIONS 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (85%)

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC); WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART (NYC) 

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%)

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL; ANDERSON, MAXWELL L; RINDER, LARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2001 



224 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW; 
Children of the Renaissance, With a Hard Act to Follow

BYLINE:  By ROBERTA SMITH 

 BODY:
Correggio and Parmigianino, as the 16th-century painters Antonio Allegri and Francesco Mazzola are known, just missed the glory days. Born on either side of 1500, they were still incipient geniuses when the High Renaissance peaked in the decade before 1520. As such they belonged to the first wave of Italian artists to face working beyond the galvanizing yet daunting fusion of religious faith, classical form and empirical observation achieved by Leonardo, Michelangelo and Raphael.
 Their productive but relatively brief careers occurred in a moment almost as pluralistic as our own. It was once gathered under the term Late Renaissance and seen as a period of decline that ended with the rise of the Baroque around 1600. The 17th-century view that much 16th-century art was unnatural and exaggerated resulted in the term Mannerism, with which Parmigianino is typically associated. But the period didn't really begin to get much respect or careful examination until the early 20th century. 
 By now 16th-century styles have been refined into High Mannerism and Proto-Baroque (the anointment most frequently used for Correggio). But they're often applied conditionally, with the proviso that most artists of the period worked with a shifting ratio of classical, anticlassical and unclassical devices. 
The ferment implied by these terms -- and their fluidity -- is palpable in the copious and beautiful exhibition of drawings by Correggio and Parmigianino at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Organized with the British Museum from American and English collections, "Correggio and Parmigianino: Master Draftsmen of the Renaissance" contains 34 sheets by Correggio and 95 by Parmigianino and is the most extensive exhibition ever devoted to the work of either artist.
Although he may not have appreciated the sophistication of the local art patronage at the time, the art historian Bernard Berenson called Correggio's emergence in the "uninspiring surroundings" of Parma on the Emilian plain in northern Italy a miracle. This painter was born around 1489 in the nearby town of Correggio, whose name he eventually adopted, and his uncle, a modest provincial painter named Lorenzo, may have been his teacher. Parmigianino was born in 1403 in Parma itself, also into a family of artists.
They were birds of different feathers. Correggio spent most of his career in and around Parma, where he married and had a large family. A brief stint working in Mantua exposed him to Mantegna's frescoes, especially the laughing faces and illusion of blue sky painted on the ceiling of the Camera degli Sposa in the ducal palace. A visit to Rome gave him firsthand knowledge of the spatial majesty of Raphael's Vatican frescoes and the monumental figures of Michelangelo's Sistine ceiling. Leonardo's atmospheric sfumato -- the use of light and shade rather than line to define form -- was another crucial influence.
In contrast, Parmigianino was a restless, antisocial and somewhat tormented spirit whose life took him from Parma to Rome to Bologna and back to Parma. He died in nearby Castelmaggiore in 1540 after being jailed for failing to execute a commission whose contract had been extended three times. Correggio had died in 1534, it is thought, after a debilitating journey on foot from Parma to his birthplace to repay a small debt.
Parmigianino came directly under Correggio's influence in the early 1520's when they worked briefly side by side at the new basilica of San Giovanni Evangelista in Parma, where Correggio's responsibilities included frescoes in the cupola and apse, and Parmigianino was working in the side chapels, possibly on a subcontract from two uncles who were also painters. The exhibition includes a two-sided sheet scattered with images that Parmigianino selectively copied from Correggio's studies for the project.
A turning point in several senses was Correggio's "Vision of St. John," the fresco for the cupola, which blew the roof off Renaissance illusionism and, it seemed, the basilica itself, creating an intoxicatingly convincing vision of Jesus descending from a golden sky toward a ring of awestruck apostles. Images of levitating bodies were nothing new, but no one before Correggio had so completely erased the lines between architectural and painted space and between real and depicted light or populated this ambiguous sphere with such dazzlingly mobile, flesh-and-blood figures.
Its revolutionary nature was not lost on Parmigianino, who made plans to go to Rome and from this point on did his best to be where Correggio wasn't. As the British art historian Cecil Gould has written, "An indefinable mixture of admiration, envy and resentment of Correggio's greatness was to be perhaps the chief emotion of Parmigianino's life."
With the drawings by Parmigianino outnumbering those by Correggio three to one, this show divides into two unequal parts that are very different in feeling and mood but somehow about equal in weight. In Correggio's half, consummate skill and unruffled consistency prevail, along with a preference for red chalk and amazing delicacy of emotion and movement. There are exceptions: the almost masklike head of a grieving Magdalene, a study for one of the Mantua frescoes, has an awkwardness and raw emotion reminiscent of Mantegna, if not Giotto. And there are extremes: a study titled "The Madonna and Child With Saints" is so heavily worked in red chalk that rapid lines of black ink were added to reinstate the image, creating an almost Futurist sense of propulsion.
All the Correggios are studies for larger works, and a good number feature steeply foreshortened figures that are typically Proto-Baroque. But others, most notably the exquisite painterly drawings of an Annunciation and an Adoration displayed side by side, echo the more anchored compositions of High Renaissance. 
An unusually sensual rendering of Diana is consistent with Berenson's claim that Correggio's rare emphasis on "the charm of femininity" aligned him with the 18th century and that he was in effect proto-Rococo. So does a study for an image of St. Matthew for San Giovanni -- he doesn't look nearly so flirtatious in the finished work -- and two studies of Eve that might almost be by Fragonard or Watteau.
In the two galleries devoted to Parmigianino, the rosy-fingered consistency is replaced by a mercurial restlessness and constant shifts in subject, style, medium and influence that can sometimes be a bit dismaying. (Slightly fewer sheets might have been more effective.) There are works in which the tenderness of Correggio prevails, most notably a Virgin and Child from the San Giovanni years, and impeccably economical drawings from life, among them several small, beautiful profile portraits, a sunlit self-portrait and a vibrant landscape in black chalk.
There are images of other art, like the red chalk close-up of Laocoon and a feather-light pen-and-ink sketch after Raphael's "School of Athens." Several studies work out the details of Parmigianino's Mannerist masterpiece "Madonna of the Long Neck," especially the pose of the sleeping Christ Child, which resembles Michelangelo's Pieta. And there is a particularly lush study showing vessel-bearing women called "Three Canephori and Vaulting," for Santa Maria della Steccata in Parma, one of the few completed portions of the project that landed Parmigianino in jail.
The urgency that pervades these works is especially sharp in an ink drawing of a seated philosopher, quickly rendered on the page of a book. Most of the text was then cut out, creating the effect of a window partly framed in type. Similarly affecting are several sheets that, like the drawing inspired by Correggio's study, layer together unrelated motifs, usually on both sides. They bring Parmigianino's searching impatience squarely to the fore and demonstrate a relatively new notion for his time: drawing for the sake of drawing.
"Correggio and Parmigianino: Master Draftsmen of the Renaissance" remains at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710, through May 6.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 20, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An art review in Weekend on Feb. 9 about "Correggio and Parmigianino: Master Draftsmen of the Renaissance," at the Metropolitan Museum, misstated the year Parmigianino was born. It was 1503, not 1403.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A large detail from "Three Canephori and Vaulting," showing vessel-bearing women. It is one of the few completed portions of a project that landed Parmigianino in jail. (Metropolitan Museum of Art) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PAINTING (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); HISTORY (78%); ART HISTORY (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); RELIGION (71%); DRAFTING (64%) ART; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (82%); BRITISH MUSEUM (54%) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) 

PERSON: CORREGGIO (1489-1534); PARMAGIANINO (1503-40); SMITH, ROBERTA 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (54%) ITALY (79%); HOLY SEE (58%); UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2001 



225 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 4; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 2382 words

HEADLINE: DESIGN REVIEW; 
Products of a Modern Dreamscape To Keep Noses to the Cybergrindstone

BYLINE:  By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
WORKSPHERES," the new design show at the Museum of Modern Art, is a bright basket of carrots without the sticks. It's no secret that Americans, in particular, are working themselves to death. To which "Workspheres" offers a bonny riposte: yes, but what a way to go!
 Organized by Paola Antonelli, this salute to the glories of 24/7 style harks back to the Modern's "Good Design" shows of the postwar decades. Here the focus is on products for the workplace in the age of telecommunications. "Workspheres" does not deal with blue-collar work or what former Secretary of Labor Robert B. Reich calls "in-person service providers." Rather, it showcases tools for the symbolic analyst, the professional who gives raw data meaning and shape. 
 I'd been wondering when the Modern would get around to doing this show. It covers one of the biggest cultural subjects of our time: the extraordinary renaissance in product design sparked by the push and pull between the old and the new economies. Marshall McLuhan understood the potentially startling results when, as he put it, "information brushed against information." Too bad he didn't live to see a full-blown information industry brushing into every corner of our lives. 
"Workspheres" is a celebration of gadgets, all those goodies that keep American consumers in a fever pitch of desire. There are more than 200 items, a mixture of prototypes and products already on the market. They include sleek silver cell phones, saucy metallic clothing accented with hands-free devices, veils of woven electronic circuits, office partitions fashioned from the same slinky material as Speedo swimsuits. These objects are anchored by six very smart projects commissioned by the Modern from design teams in Japan, Spain, the United States and the Netherlands.
Like the old "Good Design" shows, "Workspheres" presents a mythology. It couples the idea of the Next with the belief that we must collectively work our way toward it. The Next will not descend from above, without our effort. We must toil to get there. On the other hand, our travel expenses will be paid, and the work will be performed with tools that have vast sex appeal. Isn't that a good deal?
The show's approach is unabashedly promotional. It draws heavily on the values of humanism and ameliorism to divert attention from the dark side of the digital: the discomforts of jet lag, eye strain and repetitive stress injury; the dystopian "Matrix" plot, in which people serve machines. One wall text touts the proliferation of comfortable new work areas at airports -- even for coach travelers! This show gives short shrift to air rage or other types of frustration.
But it's very long on problem solving. These designers have solved problems that you never knew you had. Naoto Fukasawa from the Japanese group Ideo, for example, has provided the sky you wish you could see from your windowless office. A touch pad on the desk can dial up about 50 different skies, from tropical to Saharan to rainy to a night sky with the constellation Orion. These are projected onto a translucent canopy suspended over the desk, a technological version of the sky domes that were a common feature in churches and other public buildings before the invention of electric light.
Jet lag got you down? Inspiration flagging? Belly up to the vending machines stocked with pills conceived by the Spanish designer Marti Guixe. The 21-unit pseudopharmaceutical system includes a Go Crazy aluminum pill that reacts with dental fillings to produce a mental jolt; Concentrate tablets in the form of worry beads for the tongue; and a selection of regional spice pellets to make generic airline food taste like home cooking. Bad breath from recycled air? Try the Pocket Window, a white capsule of Alpine atmosphere.
Try the whole show. Ms. Antonelli is my idea of the model symbolic analyst. People walk into an Antonelli show and smile: Ah, yes. We're going to like this one. "Work spheres" overflows with surprise, color, pace, humor, generosity and heart.
But sadly, it falls just short of greatness. It does not focus sharply enough on the extravagant theme represented by the best of its displays: the concept of time as an elastic dimension that can be stretched by design. But it lays out the evidence that a new perception of space-time is fast becoming a reality of working life.
Ms. Antonelli's smile quotient takes on particular significance in this show. Office workers are aware of the instant mood elevation that smiles produce. You can feel completely grim when you walk into a building, but if you return the receptionist's smile, however insincerely, the heightened serotonin levels produced in your bloodstream work better than the caffeine in your first cup of coffee.
The receptionist here is a gargantuan sport-utility vehicle called the MaxiMog Global Expedition Vehicle System. Designed by Bran Ferren and Thomas Ritter, this behemoth contains a sleeping deck and kitchen and bathroom pods. It is road-legal worldwide, can cruise at up to 90 miles per hour and is equipped with video technology, a fax machine, a computer and other road-warrior gear.
As an information device, the MaxiMog is out of sync with the age of miniaturization. As a building, however, it is dinky. Perhaps it's best to think of it as a house: an operable version of the plug-in units designed in the 1960's by the visionary British Archigram group for projects like Walking City. This vehicle introduces the theme of nomadism that runs throughout the exhibition. And it is useful to think of "Workspheres" as an architecture and urbanism show as well as a design show. These products are already recasting the dimensions of the contemporary city. And the ideas at work have much to teach today's architects, especially those in New York.
Inside the show the focus shifts from the scale of space to the scale of time. We may not become fully conscious of this until we reach the displays of familiar communications products: cell phones, pocket organizers, laptops. What is stunning about these products is how quickly they pass from Hot to Not. Wasn't it only yesterday, for instance, that we thought that we couldn't live without the Apple Power Mac G4 Cube computer? And now all we can think is: what is this dumb dinosaur doing here? Where's the new Platinum Powerbook?
But this reaction indicates that the Next is not purely a matter of consumer exploitation. The myth of the Next is contingent on a myth of the Last. It expresses a shift in perception that is summed up by the question: what time is this place? In the old days the "Good Design" idea was to support classics: chairs, plates and other objects that would never go out of style. "Workspheres" stands this philosophy on its head. It is a paradise for morphomaniacs, people who enjoy the infinite forms that objects can take. 
"The shapes of time," the art historian George Kubler's phrase, perhaps best describes these collected tools of yesterday, today and tomorrow. And it is hard to know, from moment to moment, just what shape we're in.
I must thank Rafael Vinoly, the New York architect, for giving me the key to another source of these products' appeal: "They have rediscovered the pleasure of function," Mr. Vinoly told me some months ago, referring to the new breed of designers. That about says it. Until recently the idea of function had been solidly embedded in the negative view we had of modernism and its inclination toward disciplined reform. We had forgotten how refreshing a plain, factory-made product must have seemed to those who felt suffocated by an overdecorated world.
Young designers have extricated function from the dour context of functionalism and given it the meaning of ice cream. Every craving you ever had to devour a banana split comes raging through the memory circuits, making you want to clutch the svelte Cosmo digital mobile phone, designed by Trium for Mitsubishi. Or Lawrence Sarragan's spiffy Banana Bag, a plastic shoulder bag filled with banana-shaped containers for hand-held and desktop work tools.
Me, I want one of the fake-fur toddler blankets with working green computers stitched into them. This project is by the Dutch designer Hella Jongerius. It's shown in sable but also comes in that 1950's shade of mink called autumn haze. Tippi Hedren wore it in "The Birds."
You will put your own memories to work at "Workspheres." At many points throughout the show, you become conscious of connections between human and technological storage. The work space is defined as a field where digital storage accelerates the interaction of the skills packed into separate human brains.
Scientists are developing the use of biological cells for computer memory functions. But there's no need to wait for hybrid biotech computing devices. They materialize each time we sit down at a keyboard. The polymorphic shapes of information devices are more than visual analogies for the mutable forms of ideas; they stimulate memory cells. In this instance, function follows form.
Mr. Vinoly also suggested regarding these instruments as architecture. I took this to mean that, as in his buildings, there is elegance in the relationship of the parts to a dynamic whole. The hardware of individual units, as well as the links between units, constitutes a spatial system. Once this organic principle is embraced, you can add on any other information you like, from colored face plates to MP3 music. Content is variable, expandable and modular.
The Vitruvian formula of firmness, commodity and delight is visible everywhere in "Workspheres." The delight often stems from blurring the boundaries between form and content. Nowhere is this more evident than at Hiroaki Kitano's mockup of a Tokyo atelier for designing robots. Mr. Kitano, whose team designed the Aibo dog robot for Sony, has engineered a structure for working on a humanoid version. A conference table and a wall divider articulate the space, along with fabric cocoons into which team members can retreat for a sense of fetal bliss.
The divider and the table are glass, suitable for writing on during brainstorming sessions. They are also screens for back-projected computer and video images. The surfaces are veils, in other words. They can be used to bring things into greater clarity or drive them into greater chaos, depending on the team's creative needs. Content can be in the foreground, or it can decorate the room with suspended ideas.
To the Renaissance theorist Alberti, architects were responsible for the design not only of civil buildings but also of military fortifications and clocks. No one understands better than a 24/7 worker why these three items should be grouped together. Subtract the conventional 9-to-5 office from the work environment, and you have an ideal climate for rapid burnout.
Home office and nomadic workers must learn to construct fortifications around their time. Memory storage devices -- answering machines, e-mail, caller ID -- are more than information tools. They are defensive weapons that secure private space against untimely invasion from without. These boundaries for time compensate for the loss of buffers in space.
To see the work environment in temporal terms is to experience it as an event more than a place. This experience may be the most profound idea at the show. The electronic appliances are tools for creating events out of relationships in space, time and sensibility. An event may be hierarchically structured, as in a typical management chart, or its architecture may be free-floating.
"Mind'Space," another commissioned project, offers the best demonstration of the free-floating event. It is a product of one. A collaboration by Haworth Inc., Studios Architecture, Optika Studios and Digital Image Design Inc., "Mind'Space" is one of the most ambitious projects developed by the new breed of designers who work in paperless offices in cyberspace.
Though physically anchored to the floor, "Mind'Space" uses information technology to elasticize space and time. The workstation is housed within a spiral-shaped enclosure that resembles a compartmentalized nautilus shell, a design that implies the time dimension. The shell is an accumulation of events: the formation of each cellular compartment. Inside the shell are two curved work surfaces: one horizontal, like a conventional desk; the second pitched above it, like a control panel. The surfaces are covered with simulated touch screens. Information is organized on the screens in movable, morphing bubble icons.
The icons resemble blobs of mercury, and this image suggests that the ancients understood the tissue of space-time better than we do. Mercury, inspiration, is winged. His gift is kinetic. He performs poorly in a fixed position. Thinking, too, is partly spatial. It relies on the fluidity of consciousness between different parts of the brain. It is apt that "Work spheres" is opening not long after scientists found a means to slow the speed of light. Mr. Guixe's Go Crazy pill is not at all futuristic. We already have drugs to speed up minds.
But we lack a vocabulary with which to speak clearly about the dimension of time in architecture. Several essayists who wrote for the show's catalog try to capture this dimension, without much precision or persuasion. We can talk about myth. We can use words like acceleration, relativity and event, but these are just metaphors, or analogies for scientific information that few architects or those who write about them truly grasp. It's not very useful to say that you've had moments of perception in which the dimensions of space and time have collapsed into each other, leaving no evident seams.
But I assure you that "Work spheres" offers many more such moments than any museum show you are likely to have seen. These flashes of the Next take us to a place beyond myth. They represent a transformation of the environment as radical as any we've seen since the Renaissance, when Alberti and Brunelleschi recast interior space along the lines of single-point perspective.
I'm delighted that it falls within my worksphere to share the good news: modernity is back at the Modern, and Ms. Antonelli's got it.
"Workspheres" remains at the Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 708-9480, through April 22.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "My Soft Office" by Hella Jongerius is among the design proposals for the workplace on display at the Museum of Modern Art.; A drawing from "Mind'Space," a proposed workstation in "Workspheres."; Naoto Fukasawa's "Personal Skies" includes a chair that changes color. (Photographs from the Museum of Modern Art)(pg. E33); Marti Guixe's project envisions pills that help workers adjust. (Museum of Modern Art)(pg. E35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%) DESIGN; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC) 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (77%); NETHERLANDS (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2001 



226 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: Poor and Homeless: Seeking a Way Out 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Homeless Shelters in New York Fill to Highest Level Since 80's" (front page, Feb. 8): 
 Our booming economy created a surge in homelessness. 
Skyrocketing rents have put housing out of reach for most poor people. Welfare-to-work programs have not offered the promised ladder up; their minimum-wage jobs only keep people mired in poverty.
In New York, most homeless families are headed by young single mothers who grew up in poverty and are the product of a failed education system. Some have lived in foster care much of their lives, and many are victims of domestic abuse.
We need to stop focusing on stopgap measures and develop long-term strategies. Training and skill-building, coupled with a real commitment to affordable housing and health care, may not be politically expedient, but can begin to offer us a way to end the cycles of homelessness and poverty.

ARNOLD S. COHEN
President
Partnership for the Homeless
New York, Feb. 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (95%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (88%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FAMILY (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); SINGLE PARENTS (54%) HOMELESS PERSONS; HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING 

ORGANIZATION: PARTNERSHIP FOR THE HOMELESS (82%) PARTNERSHIP FOR THE HOMELESS 

PERSON: COHEN, ARNOLD S 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2001 



227 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: Gannett's Quarterly Profit Increases 3.8% 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va., Feb. 8 

 BODY:
The Gannett Company said today that its fourth-quarter earnings rose 3.8 percent on higher advertising sales at its papers and purchases of publications in the United States and Britain.
 Net income climbed to $294.9 million, or $1.11 a share, compared with profit from operations of $284 million, or $1.01 a share, in the quarter a year earlier. 
Sales at the company rose 30 percent, to $1.89 billion from $1.46 billion, because of purchases. If Gannett owned the assets in both quarters, sales would have risen 6 percent. 
 Including earnings of $10.6 million, or 4 cents a share, from a cable television unit that was sold in January 2000, net income in the quarter a year earlier was $294.6 million, or $1.05 a share.
The results in the most recent quarter matched Wall Street expectations. 
Gannett said a slowing economy had hurt ad sales, a trend reported by other newspaper companies. December ad sales rose 12 percent, helped by an extra week and higher prices. Excluding the fifth week, classified ad volume dropped 1 percent and local ad volume fell 6 percent. At USA Today, ad sales fell 6 percent.
Sales in the quarter were bolstered by purchases. Gannett spent approximately $4.6 billion on acquisitions last year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); TRENDS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: GANNETT CO INC (97%)

ORGANIZATION: GANNETT CO 

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (97%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (97%) SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2001 



228 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate; 
Setback for Bill on Disclosing a Home's Defects

BYLINE:  By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
Despite its unanimous approval by the State Senate and Assembly, Gov. George E. Pataki has vetoed a bill that would have required sellers of private homes to disclose to potential buyers the physical and environmental condition of their properties.
 The legislation would have marked a significant shift from the legal doctrine that has historically governed real estate transactions in the state: caveat emptor, or let the buyer beware. The bill's authors say they are willing to negotiate with the governor in the current session to revise the bill to avoid another veto. 
 In his veto message, Governor Pataki said, "Although it may be appropriate for New York State to impose affirmative disclosure requirements upon sellers of residential real property, the bill before me contains a number of serious technical defects and ambiguities that command my disapproval." Thirty-three other states have a form of disclosure requirement.
The measure would have required the seller to fill out -- "to the best of your knowledge" -- what it calls a property condition disclosure statement. Among the 46 questions the statement poses are whether the property was ever part of a landfill or a designated wetland, whether it has fuel tanks above or below ground and whether it has asbestos or lead plumbing in its structure. It also asks whether the house has rot, water damage, pest infestation or other defects.
The bill's chief sponsor, Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester County Democrat, said the governor's veto message "is a laundry list; these things can be negotiated out, if the parties want to negotiate." He added: "This bill is too important to too many people to let it fail because of some technical, lawyerlike objections. We'll be flexible."
The bill, which would not have applied to co-op or condominium apartments, would have required the homeowner to deliver the disclosure form to the potential buyer by the time a contract was signed by the buyer, well before the closing. Saying the bill would have caused "a dramatic shift" in the way homes are bought, Prof. Michael H. Schill, director of the Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at the New York University School of Law, pointed out that New York courts "historically adhere to the doctrine of caveat emptor when it comes to real estate transactions."
"Although there has been some loosening of the doctrine in recent years, for the most part, if a buyer purchases a home, he or she has virtually no recourse if there is a defect," Professor Schill said. "Of course, if the seller affirmatively misrepresented some condition, verbally or in writing, the buyer could sue for fraud to void the contract."
In recent years, some courts have given buyers relief when the seller concealed relevant information. Professor Schill cited a 1991 case in which an appellate court "sided with the buyer of a house in Nyack who sued the seller for failing to disclose that the house had a reputation for being haunted." The court, while reaffirming the doctrine of caveat emptor, nonetheless voided the contract. Among the governor's objections to the disclosure bill is that it would hold sellers responsible for information about which they have only constructive knowledge -- a legal term meaning something they should have known about.
"Requiring a seller of real property to disclose conditions they should have been aware of but were not, in fact, aware of raises serious fairness questions," the governor said. "While the constructive knowledge disclosure standard may be ameliorated by another portion of the bill that allows monetary damages to be awarded only for a willful failure to comply with its requirements, the bill is confusing on this point."
The governor also found some of the legislation's definitions vague. Defects, according to the bill, are conditions that would have a "material adverse effect" on the value of the property, on the health and safety of occupants or on the "normal life" of the property. "The highly general and vague nature of these questions would unfairly require the seller to speculate as to precisely what the questions are asking and how they should be answered," Mr. Pataki said.
The veto message also pointed out that the bill would have allowed the disclosure form to be delivered after the buyer signed the contract, but before the seller did, obligating the buyer to go ahead with the deal even if there are defects. The bill also fails to provide a remedy for a seller's failure to provide a disclosure form to the buyer. Mr. Pataki said "prudent and well-counseled sellers" might well decide that the best course is to refuse to complete a disclosure statement.
Assemblyman Brodsky declined to address the governor's statement point by point. "We married environmental concerns with those of buyers and sellers of houses," he said. "The governor's concerns, while not trivial, are not central to the bill. If the governor has a counterproposal that makes sense, we'll listen."
The bill's sponsor in the Senate, Thomas W. Libous, a Binghamton Republican, said: "We need to pass the bill. I was disappointed in the veto. We need to sit down with the governor's attorneys and see where we can rectify their concerns." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETO (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); APPROVALS (78%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); WETLANDS (72%); LANDFILLS (72%); WRITERS (71%); APPEALS COURTS (60%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) HOUSING; CONSUMER PROTECTION; VETOES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); BRODSKY, RICHARD L (ASSEMBLYMAN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2001 



229 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: Cracking Down in Zimbabwe 

 BODY:
Zimbabwe's spiral into lawlessness has taken a turn for the worse in recent days. President Robert Mugabe, who is struggling for political survival after two decades in power, seems to be shedding whatever pretense of democratic legitimacy he once maintained, cracking down on three vital checks on his otherwise autocratic power -- the press, the courts and the political opposition.
 Two weeks ago the printing press of Zimbabwe's only independent daily newspaper, The Daily News, was bombed, only a day after Mr. Mugabe's spokesman threatened to "silence" the paper and two days after three of the paper's journalists were arrested. The paper had come under fire for its coverage of the assassination in Congo of President Laurent Kabila, Zimbabwe's ally in Congo's war. Zimbabwe has 12,000 troops in Congo, a deeply unpopular intervention that is costing Zimbabwe $3 million a day at a time of rapid economic decline, high unemployment and hyper-inflation. 
 Then last Friday, officials forced the chief justice of Zimbabwe's Supreme Court to resign, saying they could not guarantee his personal safety from government-backed militants who had recently stormed the courts while police stood by and the judges huddled in their chambers. Mr. Mugabe has flouted a series of court orders barring the seizure of white-owned farmland by state-backed thugs.
This week the police arrested two leading opposition figures on dubious charges of inciting violence. Zimbabwe's fledgling opposition movement, which succeeded last June in ending Mr. Mugabe's governing party's near-monopoly on power in parliamentary elections, has in fact largely refrained from violence. By contrast, in the year since a constitutional referendum exposed popular disgust with Mr. Mugabe's rule, 41 opposition supporters, all but 5 of them black, have been murdered. Mugabe partisans are suspected in the killings. No one has been charged in any of these deaths. 
A year from now Mr. Mugabe will seek a fifth term as president. He is clearly prepared to use violent means to secure victory. His opponents will need the support of their regional neighbors and friends abroad, including Washington, if they are to stick to their course of peaceful change. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); MURDER (74%); ARRESTS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); WRITERS (71%); REFERENDUMS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) EDITORIALS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

PERSON: MUGABE, ROBERT (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ZIMBABWE (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) ZIMBABWE

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2001 



230 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: MicroStrategy Chief Faces Huge Losses 

BYLINE:  By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
Like many a high-tech executive, Michael J. Saylor, chief executive of MicroStrategy, a Virginia software company, has seen his fortune soar and swoon in recent months. 
 Last March, when Mr. Saylor announced plans to donate $100 million to create an innovative free university on the Internet, his shares of the company were valued at $14 billion. By yesterday, his stake was down to a little more than half a billion. 
 It turns out that the 96 percent drop in the value of MicroStrategy shares is just part of Mr. Saylor's investment woes. 
He also suffered extensive losses last year when he sold investments unrelated to MicroStrategy, his tax adviser, Dominick Salvemini of the Ernst & Young accounting firm, said yesterday. Mr. Salvemini declined to identify the companies or say how much Mr. Saylor had lost, but there are indications it was tens of millions of dollars.
The accountant's comments were in response to questions about Mr. Saylor's unusual strategy for charitable gifts described in the company's earnings announcement. 
The company said on Tuesday that Mr. Saylor intended to sell 15,000 shares of MicroStrategy stock every day for the next two years "at market prices with no limitations on price or other conditions." 
The company said the sales, which will include as many as 7.2 million of his 43 million shares, were planned partly so that Mr. Saylor could diversify his portfolio. The announcement quoted Mr. Saylor as saying that the stock sales "will allow me to fund my previously announced charitable commitment to create a cyberuniversity."
Selling shares, paying the taxes on them and then giving the cash to charity is the exact opposite of the advisable strategy for people who have stock that has risen in value. Even at yesterday's closing price of $11.81, down $1.56, Mr. Saylor still has big gains on his shares, Mr. Salvemini said.
By giving away shares that have risen in value instead of selling them and then donating the proceeds, individuals can avoid capital gains taxes and receive a charitable deduction for the value of the shares at the time. This lowers their income taxes.
The only tax reason to sell the shares and donate the cash would be to offset other investment losses.
Mr. Salvemini, who works with many high-technology executives in northern Virginia, said he had other clients "who decided to roll money back into other companies" and ended up with losses when the Internet stock bubble burst last year.
Mr. Saylor said that despite his plans to sell shares, he remains confident about the prospects for MicroStrategy, which makes software that analyzes information in companies' databases and automatically alerts executives of its findings. For example, the software can tell a hotel chain that the average price for rooms at a specific hotel has fallen below the expected level or that certain types of rooms are in demand.
Though Mr. Salvemini would not say how much Mr. Saylor lost, he described "several buckets" of losses that the executive wanted to offset. If Mr. Saylor sold 7.2 million shares, he would have $85 million, at today's price. Mr. Salvemeni declined to say how much would go to the Saylor Foundation, which is so new that the Internal Revenue Service has not yet listed it on its Web site as an authorized charity.
In addition to Mr. Saylor's stock sales, Sanju K. Bansal, the chief operating officer of MicroStrategy, said he planned to sell up to $18 million in stock this quarter and as many as 5,000 shares each day for the next two years. Those plans were disclosed Tuesday night after shares of MicroStrategy, which hit a peak of $333 last March, closed at $16.94. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CHARITIES (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); TAX CONSULTING (75%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (75%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); INCOME TAX (74%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (70%); HOTEL CHAINS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (67%); STOCK OFFERINGS (65%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PERSONAL FINANCES 

COMPANY: MICROSTRATEGY INC (92%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSTRATEGY INC 

TICKER: MSTR (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%)

PERSON: SAYLOR, MICHAEL J; JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2001 



231 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: Xerox Facing New Pressures Over Auditing 

BYLINE:  By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH and REED ABELSON 

 BODY:
The Xerox Corporation, which has been struggling for months to maintain credibility with investors and customers, is now coming under sharp criticism from analysts and management experts for not doing more to address accusations of faulty accounting practices.
 In June, Xerox acknowledged that it had uncovered serious accounting improprieties in its Mexican businesses, and a former financial employee is now accusing the company of "significant accounting and financial reporting irregularities" in other countries as well. 
 Xerox insists that it has thoroughly investigated its operations outside of Mexico and found nothing wrong. Analysts and management experts say that the company and its board should have brought in outside experts to look into accusations made by James F. Bingham, a former Xerox assistant treasurer whose allegations and lawsuit for wrongful termination were reported in The Wall Street Journal on Tuesday. 
"The person making these allegations was a fairly senior financial executive who should be in a position to know about the company's accounting policies," said Howard Schilit, who heads the Center for Financial Research and Analysis, which studies accounting practices. 
While Xerox, which is based in Stamford, Conn., has dismissed Mr. Bingham's accusations, some investors and analysts think they deserve further scrutiny.
"Given how fast the situation deteriorated, there's a reasonable likelihood that the company was using its financing business and other mechanisms to bolster revenue," said Gibboney Huske, an analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston. Carol Levenson, editor of Gimme Credit, a newsletter for institutional investors, added: "It's tough to tell the difference between ineptitude and chicanery from the outside."
At the very least, the allegations have touched off discussions among investors and former executives about whether Xerox's internal checks and balances are adequate.
"I don't think anyone at Stamford said, 'Let's cook the books,' " said James W. Lundy, a former Xerox executive who is now a research director at the research firm Gartner. But Mr. Lundy noted that accounting rules are far more lax in Latin America than in the United States, making it tempting for companies to apply less rigor when they translate numbers back for American consumption. 
Indeed, Xerox's internal investigation "did find limited instances of exposed receivables in other countries," acknowledged Christa Carrone, a Xerox spokeswoman. Xerox has set aside reserves in several Latin American countries as a result. 
Mr. Lundy questions whether Barry Romeril, Xerox's chief financial officer, was vigilant enough. "The buck stops with the C.F.O., and I don't think Barry was really watching the store," he said. Mr. Romeril was in Europe this week and could not be reached for comment. 
Others raise the question of whether the board should have hired outside experts to investigate. Most governance experts say that is a tough call, but many note that outside investigations into accusations of internal wrongdoing usually provide more comfort for shareholders.
"An external investigation always gives the public more confidence," said Charles Elson, the director of the Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware.
Gerald C. Meyers, a University of Michigan business professor and former chairman of American Motors, agreed. "The best way to handle this is to overreact" by calling in outside experts, he said.
In an interview yesterday, Paul A. Allaire, Xerox's chairman, insisted that Xerox's self-examination had been thorough and that its board had been diligent. "We are aware of Jim Bingham's allegations, we investigated them, we found there was no basis, and I see no need for an independent investigation now," he said. 
Mr. Allaire also said that the audit committee, particularly, had been closely questioning KPMG, Xerox's external auditors, "to make sure that our accounting procedures everywhere are proper and in accordance with our procedures." He noted that Xerox hired independent investigators in Mexico only after its own investigation had confirmed that accounting fraud was taking place and that Xerox promptly fired the Mexican executives who had committed the fraud. 
He said that Daniel Marchibroda, a finance director in Europe and a 29-year Xerox employee, and a team of 35 people spent six months investigating accounting procedures at the company's Latin American, European and Asian operations as well as at its headquarters.
"He shared his reports with the audit committee, with management and with our external auditors," Mr. Allaire said. "Everyone had a high degree of comfort with the results" and thus decided an independent investigation was not needed. Even so, Mr. Allaire said, KPMG exhibited "a heightened sensitivity in doing their internal reviews of our operations and accounting and practices." 
Eleven shareholder suits have been filed since July, accusing Xerox directors of lax oversight in Mexico. Xerox's outside directors are all named in the shareholder suits, and no director was willing to comment. But in October, four board members -- Vernon Jordan, head of the nominating committee; Nicholas J. Nicholas Jr., the former co-chief executive of Time Warner and head of the finance committee; Ralph S. Larsen, chairman of Johnson & Johnson and head of the executive compensation committee; and Thomas C. Theobald, managing director of William Blair Capital Partners and head of the audit committee -- formed a special advisory oversight group to pay special attention to the company's continuing program to dispose of assets, cut costs and sort out the Mexican accounting trouble. 
Xerox has for some time been grappling with mounting losses, a liquidity squeeze and competitive inroads in all its markets. But the current controversy dates back to June, when Xerox discovered accounting improprieties at its Mexican operations and announced an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company used the law firm of Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld and the accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers to help it with the inquiry.
In July, according to his lawsuit, Mr. Bingham prepared a memorandum "outlining what he believed were significant accounting and financial irregularities" at Xerox. Although his suit does not spell out those irregularities, several analysts say that the questions center on such issues as whether Xerox was inflating revenue by booking equipment rentals as sales and whether it was using faulty assumptions about inflation and interest rates to pump up the value of future lease payments and the residual value of copiers as they came off leases. 
In his lawsuit, Mr. Bingham says he brought these concerns to the attention of the director of internal audit as well as the treasurer and chief financial officer and was subsequently dismissed. Mr. Allaire said Mr. Bingham was fired for insubordination, not whistle-blowing, but acknowledges that no board member debriefed Mr. Bingham personally. Xerox says it continues to cooperate with the S.E.C.'s developing investigation into Xerox's worldwide accounting practices. 
To be sure, some analysts and investors do not think a more thorough investigation would uncover a pervasive problem at the company. "Bingham's allegations and The Journal piece are red flags, sure, but I don't think there's anything I've learned in the last week that makes me feel these guys are cheating," said David R. Giroux, an investment analyst at T. Rowe Price Associates, which holds Xerox shares. 
But accounting uncertainties could hamper Xerox's attempts to turn itself around, particularly in selling its financing portfolio along with other assets to improve its liquidity. Questions about how it books rentals and loans could slow that process considerably. "If there are more perceptions of concerns about the quality of leases and receivables, whoever buys the business is going to ask a lot more questions so they don't get heat from their own shareholders," Mr. Giroux said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (91%); AUDITS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); DISMISSALS (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); WRONGFUL TERMINATION (69%); LITIGATION (69%) FINANCES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS 

COMPANY: XEROX CORP (93%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%)

ORGANIZATION: XEROX CORP 

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (93%); CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%) SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES; 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H; ABELSON, REED; BINGHAM, JAMES F 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (70%) MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); EUROPE (79%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2001 



232 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Governor Sees A Takeover In Waterbury 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

 BODY:
Increasing the pressure on his hometown, Waterbury, Gov. John G. Rowland of Connecticut told reporters yesterday that a state takeover of the city's troubled finances seemed inevitable and that he supported the creation of a three-member oversight board.
 "It's going to be a long process," Mr. Rowland said. "We'll be working with the legislature, working with the unions, trying to get some concessions. I think that they're very willing to do so." 
 Mr. Rowland's spokesman, Dean Pagani, said the governor had merely offered his opinion in response to a reporter's question and was not ordering immediate action. "He wasn't calling for anything or directing that anything be done," Mr. Pagani said.
But the governor's remark offered the strongest hint yet that the state legislature would in fact authorize an oversight board to take full control of the municipal finances in Waterbury. The city has a recurring debt problem and nearly ran out of money in December.
Waterbury's mayor, Philip A. Giordano, said he supported a takeover only if the enabling legislation authorized the state control board to overturn collective bargaining agreements with municipal unions.
"If you are going to give us the labor provision, come help us," he said. "If you are not going to give us the labor provision, then we can do what you can do, then leave us alone."
Such power was granted to an oversight board appointed to control finances in West Haven in the early 1990's. But the Rowland administration has expressed doubts about whether the Democrats who now control the legislature will grant authority for the contracts to be overturned in Waterbury.
Mr. Giordano has maintained that overly generous union contracts are mostly responsible for the city's economic troubles. He said that municipal union workers in Waterbury enjoyed much better benefits than other union workers in the state.
Mr. Pagani said Governor Rowland was now convinced that the city could not handle the situation. "He has been holding out that the city would be able to dig itself out on its own," Mr. Pagani said. "I think he is saying very clearly now he thinks the state is going to have to step in."
Officials have estimated that Waterbury is facing a two-year deficit of $50 million. The city's finance director, Richard Russo, has proposed a bailout plan that would include short-term borrowing of $86 million this spring.
In November, Mr. Rowland leveled blistering criticism at Mayor Giordano, accusing him of ignoring Waterbury's crumbling finances last year while pursuing a quixotic campaign for United States Senate against the wildly popular incumbent, Joseph I. Lieberman.
Yesterday, Mr. Rowland acknowledged that some concessions from labor unions would help Waterbury's situation, but he suggested that the problems ran deeper.
Waterbury's Board of Aldermen had set a deadline of Jan. 31 to decide whether to request action by the legislature. That deadline has been postponed so that city officials can consider the new bailout plan proposed by Mr. Russo.
In addition to heavy short-term borrowing, Mr. Russo's plan calls for the city to realize an additional $60 million in revenue, through a combination of spending cuts, tax increases and possible state grants. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); BAILOUTS (67%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES 

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (58%) HERSZENHORN, DAVID M; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV); GIORDANO, PHILIP A (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) WATERBURY (CONN); CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2001 



233 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Layoffs Galore in Silicon Alley, but Many Find a Traditional Net 

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
For Silicon Alley, the week started with Razorfish announcing that it would lay off 400 workers. On Wednesday, Barnesandnoble.com cut 350 jobs, Bluefly said it had agreed to be taken over by the billionaire investor George Soros, and GoRefer.com, an online marketing concern, said it was going out of business. 
 Yesterday, the bad news continued. Several technology companies announced job cuts totaling 215 jobs, and RCN Corporation said it would scale back the construction of its cable network and try to sell its Internet unit. 
 The layoffs and restructurings signal that New York is finally experiencing with full force the effects of the downturn in the Internet sector. But as the slowdown begins to take hold, economists say that New York may not suffer as much as many other technology corridors.
In fact, the economists say, many of the laid-off technology workers are quickly finding new jobs -- although they come with less pay and without stock options -- at Wall Street firms, corporations, government agencies and nonprofits that could not compete for their talent last year, when dot-coms were paying so much.
"It's not something that we want to diminish too much," Jason Bram, a senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said of the layoffs. "But in terms of the overall impact on the economy, you are talking about a city that has been generating a net of 8,000 to 10,000 jobs a month," with the exception of last December, when the growth figure was about 2,500.
RCN Corporation, based in Princeton, N.J., said yesterday that it would eliminate 65 jobs, including an entire division of employees who were building the company's cable network. Executives announced that all together, they had eliminated about 470 jobs since the beginning of December through layoffs and attrition.
In Silicon Alley, Predictive Systems, a network consulting company, announced that it would cut 130 jobs, reducing its work force of about 700 by about 18 percent. The company, based on Fifth Avenue in Midtown, reported a net loss in the final quarter of last year after 12 months of profitability.
The cuts, the executives said, were designed to bring the company back to profitability by the third quarter of this year.
Even with the cutbacks in the region, Mr. Bram said that job growth was at a healthy level in New York's private sector. The low growth in December was in part because of a slowdown in the retail sector and dot-com layoffs, he said. 
"Wall Street is really the primary industry in the city, and those indicators look pretty good," he said.
Even by the most optimistic estimates, the Internet industry in New York City makes up only 2 to 3 percent of private sector jobs. It is hard to track how many Internet-related layoffs have occurred in New York since the Nasdaq began its sharp decline last April, Mr. Bram said, but there was no noticeable impact on the number of people applying for unemployment.
Charles Millard, the former president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, said that the recent cuts were "reflective of the fact that a lot of these companies are in a more mature world" and that cutting unnecessary positions is a good long-term move for Silicon Alley.
Mitchell L. Moss, director of the Taub Center for Urban Research at New York University, said the dot-com layoffs had also have helped many companies, nonprofit organizations and government agencies who have been searching for technology workers.
"A lot of organizations which could not afford to match the salaries of the start-ups are going to find that they can hire them at discount prices," Mr. Moss said. "This is going to be a way to help a lot of public and nonprofit companies to replenish their operations." 

CORRECTION-DATE: February 22, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 9 about layoffs and other cutbacks at technology companies in the New York region referred incorrectly to one step taken by the RCN Corporation, a cable television, telephone and Internet service provider. It is writing off its investment in JuniorNet, a children's Web site that is seeking a buyer; the company is not trying to sell its Internet unit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); STOCK OPTIONS (67%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); EXECUTIVES (63%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR 

COMPANY: RCN CORP (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%); BARNESANDNOBLE.COM LLC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (91%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (91%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (91%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (91%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (57%) BLAIR, JAYSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; 

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2001 



234 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: MILOSEVIC FACING ARREST BY SERBS FOR A LOCAL TRIAL 

BYLINE:  By CARLOTTA GALL 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, Feb. 8 

 BODY:
Slobodan Milosevic, who led Serbs into four wars and 13 years of impoverishment and isolation, could be arrested very soon and tried for multiple crimes ranging from embezzlement and election fraud to discrimination against minorities and perhaps treason, the new Serbian justice minister said this week. 
 The prospect of arresting Mr. Milosevic, who is under 24-hour police surveillance, has been increasingly discussed since the visit two weeks ago of Carla del Ponte, the chief prosecutor of the United Nations war crimes tribunal in The Hague. 
 It remains far more likely that Mr. Milosevic, who remains active as leader of his Socialist Party, the largest opposition party in Serbia's parliament, would stand trial in Serbia. A decision on whether to extradite him -- as United Nations statutes require and Western donors like the United States have demanded -- to face trial in The Hague may be made in due course, but clearly attention now is on trying him locally. 
The topic is clearly moving up the agenda of Serbia's new leaders, who are warning the Serbian people that they face losing American aid if the government has not moved to arrest Mr. Milosevic by March 31, an American deadline for Serbia to show it is cooperating with the tribunal.
Mr. Milosevic's successor as Yugoslavia's president, Vojislav Kostunica, was dismissive toward Mrs. del Ponte and the tribunal, which indicted Mr. Milosevic in 1999 during NATO's war against Yugoslavia, for crimes allegedly committed by his forces in Kosovo. But top Serbian officials and, increasingly, Serbs themselves seem eager to bring Mr. Milosevic to some form of justice.
Vladan Batic, justice minister in the new Serbian government, said when asked about Mr. Milosevic's possible arrest, "I do not want to set a deadline, but I expect it to happen very soon."
Much of the evidence against Mr. Milosevic would come from former close associates, some of whom are already being investigated and interrogated, he said.
That would indicate that Mr. Milosevic is more likely to stand trial for economic crimes and other misdeeds in Serbia, not for the atrocities allegedly committed by his forces in the wars in Croatia, Bosnia and Kosovo in the 1990's. Serbia was also involved in a war in Slovenia. 
Ministers clearly do not consider charges of war crimes in those cases a priority, but have suggested that in due course hearings for a Hague trial could be held in Serbia.
New public prosecutors are being nominated this week and should be approved by the Serbian Parliament on Monday, Mr. Batic said. One of the first tasks of the chief prosecutor, he said, will be to start procedures against leaders who fell after a popular revolt on Oct. 5 forced Mr. Milosevic to hand power to Mr. Kostunica, who had won elections in September.
"Serbian citizens only care a lot about two things: They want to see the people who ruined their lives over the last 10 years in jail, and they want to see their living standards rise," Mr. Batic said. 
Other ministers, members of the 18-party alliance that defeated Mr. Milosevic and his allies in presidential and then Serbian parliamentary elections last year, have made similar comments.
Zoran Djindjic, who as prime minister of Serbia oversees the powerful police forces of Serbia, suggested last week that Mr. Milosevic would be charged within two weeks.
"We want all those who committed crimes to be held responsible; we want them to answer before our institutions," Mr. Djindjic said after meeting Secretary of State Colin L. Powell in Washington. Mr. Djindjic added that Serbia's new leaders wanted "to give a chance to our courts because they are competent."
"My impression is that we have secured an understanding in the State Department," he said.
A senior Bush administration official said today that the United States was "in constant contact with Belgrade," and added, referring to Mr. Milosevic, "We are still committed to bringing him to The Hague."
But the official added that "how we do it is still under discussion," and left open the possibility that the United States might not object if Mr. Milosevic was tried first in Serbia -- and then, if the politics and timing were right, extradited to face international charges.
Even before Mr. Djindjic went to Washington, the new Yugoslav police minister, Zoran Zivkovic, was talking of arresting Mr. Milosevic, but suggested that a few months were needed to prepare public opinion and make legal preparations.
"The world is telling us his place is in jail," Mr. Zivkovic said in an interview in late January. "We know that better than anyone."
Mr. Milosevic has continued to occupy the presidential residence in the secluded district of Dedinje, with the consent of Mr. Kostunica, who still lives in a modest apartment downtown. The ousted president is guarded by the police and is under constant surveillance, not least for his own protection, the Serbian interior minister, Dusan Mihajlovic, said last week.
The several dozen policemen who are guarding Mr. Milosevic remain loyal to him, Mr. Zivkovic said, but he added that he did not expect any difficulty in making an arrest once the authorities chose to act. 
Mr. Milosevic was most recently seen by outsiders at a memorial gathering on Wednesday for his former interior minister, Zoran Sokolovic, who died this week, apparently in a suicide. Today, Mr. Milosevic received a Hungarian politician.
He has lost weight and looks pale, even ashen, according to local reporters who have seen him.
Mrs. del Ponte's visit broke a taboo; under the old government, the tribunal was vilified in all official media and by many Serbs as a political body that is against them. Serbs make up the bulk of the scores of people publicly indicted by the tribunal.
Mr. Batic cautioned that Parliament could take several months to pass a law regulating cooperation with the tribunal.
Even Mr. Kostunica's alliance is divided on the issue. 
The Serbian government is meanwhile pressing ahead with building a case against Mr. Milosevic and his associates. "We are gathering evidence," Mr. Batic said. "Milosevic could be indicted for several criminal offenses including large-scale theft, corruption, embezzlement, violating citizens' rights and rigging elections."
He may even face charges of treason for capitulating during the war over Kosovo, he suggested.
The strongest evidence gathered so far deals with misappropriation of property and companies, Mr. Batic said.
The arrest of the head of the Yugoslav Customs Bureau, Mihalj Kertes, a close associate of Mr. Milosevic, has produced a wealth of evidence, Mr. Batic said. "He gave us a lot against Milosevic," he said, adding that the investigation against Mr. Kertes, who was subsequently released, is continuing. 
Mr. Kertes acquired enormous wealth in his position, which allowed him the opportunity to control vast smuggling rackets, and he is believed to have provided much of the finance for the Milosevic government, including funds for the operations of Serbian paramilitary units blamed for some of the worst atrocities of the Balkan wars. 
Mr. Kertes was arrested shortly after the popular uprising in October and after Mr. Djindjic ordered the customs offices seized. Mr. Kertes was released because he was then still entitled to parliamentary immunity from prosecution; he is now reported to be undergoing treatment in the military hospital in Belgrade.
His case has already proved that many of Mr. Milosevic's closest associates will talk, Mr. Batic said. "I think we will find the evidence with the arrest and confessions of his closest associates," he added. "There are a lot of them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Slobodan Milosevic, Yugoslavia's former president, appeared on Wednesday at a commemoration gathering in Belgrade for his former interior minister, Zoran Sokolovic, who died the day before, apparently in a suicide. (Reuters)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); POLITICS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); EMBEZZLEMENT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); WAR CRIMES (89%); INDICTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (77%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); APPROVALS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%) WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS; ELECTIONS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EMBEZZLEMENT; TREASON 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GALL, CARLOTTA; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES); BATIC, VLADAN (MIN); KOSTUNICA, VOJISLAV (PRES); DEL PONTE, CARLA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (92%) SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOSOVO (92%); NETHERLANDS (92%); CROATIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%) SERBIA

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2001 



235 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: The Big City; 
Term Limits: The Promise And the Perils

BYLINE:  By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
DURING a tumultuous news conference Wednesday, City Councilman Stanley E. Michels imagined what would happen if the new term limits law prevented most members of Council from running for re-election this year. 
 "We will destroy the Council," he predicted. 
 O.K. But is there a downside? 
It's not immediately obvious. Unless you've had a burning desire to rename a street, you probably find it challenging to remember anything the Council has done, let alone anything of benefit to the city. 
Since members are rarely held accountable for the long-term impact of their actions -- most voters don't even know their names -- they're tempted to do whatever provides immediate publicity, patronage and campaign contributions from special-interest groups. 
"Attending a City Council hearing is like entering an alternate universe," said Fred Siegel, a professor of history at Cooper Union. "It's a world almost completely divorced from the city's private economy. It's dominated by the concerns of the social-services industry, public-sector unions and local activists." 
Watching the Council, it seems as if there must be something especially wrong in New York. Does the city's size make the Council's job impossible? Is the Council's size (51 members) too unwieldy? Could the structure be somehow reformed? But Dr. Siegel, who compared New York with Washington and Los Angeles in his 1997 book, "The Future Once Happened Here," doesn't see better alternatives elsewhere.
"New York's City Council today is no worse than councils in other cities, and no worse than it's been for the past century," he said. "The role of any city council is inherently limited because it's a legislative body in what is essentially an administrative government. City councils are always prone to provincialism, and they're rarely composed of people capable of doing other jobs."
Our Council members couldn't do other work? Here I must differ. They're already experts at myriad occupations. They give builders and landlords exquisitely precise instructions on how do their jobs. Without doing marketing surveys, they know precisely where superstores should be built (nowhere) and how many diners want to smoke in private restaurants (none).
They are marvels of mercantile efficiency, as evidenced by the Council's various analyses of prices at movie theaters, A.T.M.'s, gas stations, barbershops, tailors, dry cleaners and other establishments. No matter what the business, the Council invariably concludes that prices need to come down, and occasionally members even offer specific cost-cutting tips.
Councilwoman Kathryn E. Freed, for instance, was not satisfied at a hearing in 1996 when a dry cleaner tried to explain why some women's shirts cost more to clean than men's. He said that smaller shirts had to ironed by hand because they wouldn't fit on the automatic press, but Ms. Freed promptly solved the problem. She said helpfully, "Your automatic machine should be a little more adjustable." 
HER technological breakthrough happened to come shortly before the referendum on term limits, in November 1996, and it convinced me that entrepreneurs like her were being wasted in the Council. I made a bold prediction for a city that still had one of the highest unemployment rates in America: New York's economy would boom if a term limits law forced members out of office, thereby unleashing their initiative in the private sector.
The voters approved the term limits that November, and the city's economy began soaring -- obviously in anticipation of the stimulus that would hit when the term limits took effect. Today, though, there are signs of an economic slowdown, which is just as obviously in reaction to the efforts of Mr. Michels and other members to repeal the term limits law.
Their attempt to overrule voters' wishes is being opposed by the Council speaker, Peter F. Vallone, and if he prevails it's safe to predict that the economy will soar again. But what will happen to the Council if most of its members are replaced by new faces this year? Believe it or not, Dr. Siegel thinks it could be even worse.
"The prospect is frightening," he said. "You've got many loco local activists who actually have a chance to win seats, and one of them could become the speaker. People don't appreciate how much Vallone has done to control the Council's wilder impulses. At some point we're going to run out of streets to rename, and the new Council could start doing something dangerous." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERM LIMITS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); HISTORY (68%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); GAS STATIONS (66%); TRENDS (65%); RESTAURANTS (60%); MARKET RESEARCH (60%); BARBER SHOPS (60%); MARKETING SURVEYS (50%) ELECTIONS; CITY COUNCILS; TERM LIMITS (POLITICAL OFFICE); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2001 



236 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 85 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
COMMERCE BANCORP SAYS IT WILL ADD 1,500 JOBS THIS YEAR

BYLINE:  Reuters 

 BODY:
 Commerce Bancorp, a regional bank based in Cherry Hill, N.J., said yesterday that it planned to hire 1,500 workers and open 30 branches this year. 
The bank said it would hire tellers, branch managers and top executives. It now employs more than 5,000 people in New Jersey, Pennsylvania and northern Delaware. It added 25 branches in 1999 and 30 branches last year. Its hiring push contrasts with plans by many other companies to lay off employees amid an economic slowdown that has hampered revenue growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANK BRANCHES (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); EXECUTIVES (84%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (82%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%) BANKS AND BANKING; LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION 

COMPANY: TD BANK NA (94%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE BANCORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2001 



237 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Federated to Close Stern's And Rename or Shut Stores 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
A darkening retail environment claimed another once-venerable but now damaged shopping institution, as Federated Department Stores said it would close its New Jersey-based Stern's department store division.
 Stern's, which was founded in 1867 in Manhattan, joins Bradlees and Montgomery Ward on the list of once-prominent department stores forced out of business after seeing their fortunes fall in the face of ferocious low-cost interlopers like Target and Kohl's. 
 Federated said it would convert 19 of the 24 Stern's stores, all located in New York or New Jersey, to stores of the more upscale Bloomingdale's or Macy's chains, also owned by Federated. The corporation said it would close the other 5 stores. The company said it would close three additional locations now scheduled to be converted to Macy's stores if it could get out of the leases. 
Most of the 7,400 Stern's employees will simply transfer to the Macy's payroll, the company said. However, approximately 2,600 employees who work in either Stern's headquarters, the locations being closed or the two stores converting to Bloomingdale's are not being assured positions. These employees will be given priority consideration for positions in Federated's other divisions, the company said, but some may be laid off.
Closing Stern's will allow Federated to concentrate on chains that company officials believe have more cachet in the suburban market. "We believe the best approach for Federated in the Northeast over the longer term is to concentrate on our two strongest department store brands there, Macy's and Bloomingdale's," James M. Zimmerman, Federated's chairman and chief executive, said in a written statement.
Although Stern's had a long run in the New York region, it clearly filled a niche under assault. In the economic boom after World War II it was the sort of store that blue-collar workers could aspire to shop at; proof that they were card-carrying members of the middle class. "In the 1960's, you'd done all right if you could shop at Stern's," said Wendy Liebmann, president of WSL Strategic Retail, a New York-based consulting firm.
But in recent years Stern's, like other midmarket retailers like J. C. Penney and Sears, found itself being squeezed between more upscale retailers that were cutting costs, and aggressive discounters like Target and Kmart, which were offering fashion at bargain prices. Stern's stores, in need of remodeling and in outmoded locations, began to look out of date, and sales went flat.
Perhaps the termination of the chain was inevitable, but the weakening economy and the recent entry of Kohl's in the New York marketplace made the need for action more pressing, retail analysts said. Kohl's -- the Midwest-based department store chain that offers designer fashions for cut-rate prices and that has been growing at a rapacious pace -- has opened 35 metropolitan area stores since last March, a move that has shaken up the local retail market.
"There is going to be some cost savings for Federated" in closing the Stern's division, said Richard Church, an analyst with Salomon Smith Barney. But more important, he said, "it will move the stores upmarket and put them a little further from Kohl's; those stores have everyone scared."
Federated said it would close the stores at Sunrise Mall in Massapequa, N.Y.; Smith Haven Mall in Lake Grove, N.Y.; and Roosevelt Field in Garden City, N.Y.; and stores in Monmouth Junction, N.J., and Valley Stream, N.Y., in August. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (96%); DEPARTMENT STORES (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); SUBURBS (64%); EXECUTIVES (63%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%); WORLD WAR II (50%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (97%); KOHL'S CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATED DEPARTMENT STORES INC; MACY, R H, & CO INC; BLOOMINGDALE'S; STERN'S (DEPARTMENT STORE) 

TICKER: M (NYSE) (97%); KSS (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (97%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (97%) SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES; 

PERSON: KAUFMAN, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2001 



238 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: With an Eye on U.S., Britain Cuts a Key Interest Rate 

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, Feb. 8 

 BODY:
Following cautiously in the footsteps of the Federal Reserve, the Bank of England cut its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point today, to 5.75 percent. 
 The reduction, the first rate change here in a year, reflected concern that the slowdown in the United States economy may retard Britain's already sluggish growth. 
 The change also narrowed the gap between rates in Britain and in the 12-nation euro zone to a single percentage point, another indication that the economies in Britain and Continental Europe may be converging just as the debate over possible British membership in the single currency is sharpening in advance of a general election expected in May. 
In parliament on Tuesday, Prime Minister Tony Blair said his Labor government would decide within two years after the election whether to propose euro membership to the British people in a referendum. Labor is expected to win easily in May. 
Mr. Blair's remarks were not much of a departure from the government's earlier statements that "early in the next Parliament," it would assess the benefits of euro membership to various sectors of the economy before deciding whether to call a referendum. The government has published five vaguely defined criteria for judging whether euro membership would be advantageous.
Still, the issue is so caught up in the politics of national pride and the mistrust of Continental Europe that Mr. Blair's two-year time frame was cast in banner headlines today as a "deadline" or "timetable" for euro entry.
Mr. Blair was thought to be eager to keep the euro debate out of the election campaign, particularly since surveys suggest that Britons are becoming increasingly skeptical about the euro and even about membership in the European Union. 
But the opposition party, the Conservatives, which virulently opposes consideration of joining the euro for at least five years, resolved today to thrust the issue into the campaign, taking advantage of Mr. Blair's remarks to suggest that the Labor Party would try to steamroll Britons on the issue. 
"We are absolutely clear that Britain should not enter the euro, that Britain should keep the pound," Michael Portillo, the economics spokesman for the Conservatives, said in a radio interview. "People will realize, I think, that the general election is the last opportunity they will have, or the last opportunity they might have, to vote to keep the pound."
His remarks, like those of Mr. Blair, underscored the feeling among many analysts that the question of whether Britain adopts the euro will be decided more by political factors than by economic ones.
Nonetheless, today's interest rate reduction by the Bank of England, which brought British and euro-zone rates closer than at any time since the euro was introduced two years ago, reinforced market calculations that British rates have further to fall as almost a decade of growth begins to ease. Interest rate futures contracts are already pricing in additional cuts as soon as next month, and some economists forecast that the benchmark rate will fall to 5.25 percent this year.
The British economy should grow about 2.6 percent this year, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, not quite as fast as the 3 percent growth expected in the euro zone, but for the first time in years, it may outpace the United States. 
Reflecting this picture, the Fed, in two separate actions last month, cut a full percentage point off its benchmark rate, to 5.5 percent, but the European Central Bank decided last week to keep its repurchase rate at 4.75 percent.
The Bank of England's mandate is to keep inflation at 2.5 percent. As usual, the bank will not explain its rate decision until later this month. But recent figures for house prices and industrial production and data showing lower oil prices and retail sales have suggested that inflationary pressures are easing.
Trade groups of industrial companies and retailers hailed today's move to lower rates as well judged and timely, and its effects were immediately seen in the banking sector.
Barclays P.L.C., one of the country's four major banks, lowered its base lending rate to 5.75 percent from 6 percent, and Halifax, the country's leading mortgage lender, cut its standard rate for home loans to 7.5 percent from 7.74 percent.
But the move by the Bank of England had little impact on financial or currency markets, where it was widely expected.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Tony Blair says euro membership will be studied. (Reuters) Chart: "Closer to Convergence"With inflation and unemployment both low and interest rates now headed downward, Britain's economy is becoming more synchronized with those of countries that have adopted the euro. INFLATIONChart shows change in consumer prices from a year earlier. UNEMPLOYMENT*Chart shows unemployment for 12 countries using the euro and Britain since 1999. INTEREST RATESBenchmarkChart shows interest rates for Britain and European Central Bank since 1999. *International Labor Organization definition(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO ZONE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TRENDS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); REFERENDUMS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CURRENCIES (71%) CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%) BANK OF ENGLAND; EUROPEAN UNION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (90%) COWELL, ALAN; BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (97%); EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (93%) GREAT BRITAIN; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2001 



239 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Credit Paradox: Junk Market Is Lending, but Banks Are Not 

BYLINE:  By Floyd Norris 

 BODY:
THERE'S life in debt land.
 The revival of the junk bond market has been the most impressive market story of 2001. Companies that could not have sold bonds late last year now get money easily. Even telecommunications bonds rated below B level -- the nether regions of junk -- are being sold. 
 That is great news for owners of junk bond mutual funds -- the median such fund is up 7.2 percent since the end of 2000 -- and for the companies that get the money.
For the rest of us, the important question is whether the sudden opening of the junk market portends the end of the credit squeeze that was one reason for the sudden economic slowdown. That outlook is not as bright.
Consider Levi Strauss, the junk-rated jeans maker whose business has suffered in recent years as it has lost market share. Profit rebounded last year, but revenue fell 10 percent and is down 35 percent from the 1996 peak. In October, it tried to sell $350 million in bonds but could not find buyers. But last month buyers lined up for $500 million in seven-year bonds that paid lower interest than Levi was willing to pay three months before. What had changed for Levi was not its financial outlook; it was the market.
So Levi has more cash available for advertising and investment, right? Wrong. Levi used to have $1.6 billion in bank credit available, but it renegotiated that deal in December. Now its bank line is down to $1.05 billion. Even with the bond proceeds, it has $50 million less in available credit.
That is in keeping with what the banks say they are doing. In January, 60 percent of banks told the Federal Reserve that they had tightened corporate credit over the last three months. None admitted to easing.
That isn't what the Fed wanted to hear. Back on Dec. 5, Alan Greenspan warned that bankers who had been too liberal in their lending might be going too far in the other direction, and urged them not to "cut off credit for borrowers with credible prospects." But bankers are seeing enough loans from earlier years go sour that they are scared to make risky loans now, as the economy weakens.
The evidence that the banks have so far ignored Mr. Greenspan's pleas will come as a surprise only to those who view him as omnipotent. A decade ago, he faced the same problem, which led to a lot of talk that the Fed's sharp easing of credit then amounted to "pushing on a string." Eventually the banks grew more friendly, but only after losses from previous credit cycles began to ease.
The January revival of the junk bond market reflected some factors that will not endure. Junk bond mutual funds entered 2001 with much more cash on hand than normal, as Martin S. Fridson, Merrill Lynch's junk guru, noted, creating something of a buying panic when the public suddenly started to send in money as well. There was also buying by "crossover investors," institutions that normally avoid junk bonds but that saw them as amazingly cheap.
Now such bonds seem reasonably priced, and some of the hot money may flee. Even if the junk bond market does stay relatively healthy, other sources of financing for non-blue-chip companies, whether the banks or buyers of new initial public offerings, remain cautious.
When capital was cheap and easy, a lot of money was wasted on bad investments and loans that will not be repaid. It will take time for those who provided the capital to work through the problems. In the meantime, corporations that need money face significant problems that will not be quickly solved by the Fed's interest rate reductions.

GRAPHIC: Chart shows high-yield bond funds median return through Feb. 7.(Source: Morningstar) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH YIELD BONDS (92%); BONDS (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BOND FUNDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MARKET SHARE (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%); APPAREL MFG (54%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: LEVI STRAUSS & CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (56%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (73%) NORRIS, FLOYD; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2001 



240 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Happily in the Middle 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 8 

 BODY:
During the presidential campaign, Al Gore portrayed George W. Bush's tax-cut proposal as way out on the fiscal fringe, a risky scheme that would send the healthy economy into a downward spiral. Even Republicans saw his tax plan more as a wish list than a program that could be enacted.
 Now, with the economy faltering, the budget surplus growing and Mr. Bush in the White House, the politics of tax cutting are evolving rapidly in ways that favor the new president. 
 As he formally sent his request for a $1.6 trillion tax cut to Congress during a carefully staged ceremony in the Rose Garden, Mr. Bush argued again today that his plan would be like CPR for the aging economic expansion by putting more cash in the pockets of increasingly hard-pressed individuals and eliminating barriers to prosperity built into the tax code.
More subtly, he continued to maneuver himself into the comfortable middle of a debate over how big a tax reduction the nation can afford.
Emboldened by the latest increase in the surplus projections and the blessing bestowed on a tax cut by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, many Republicans are demanding that the tax reduction be substantially larger than what Mr. Bush has proposed. Mr. Bush's plan would reduce all income tax rates, double the child credit, give a break to many two-income couples and repeal the tax on large estates.
Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader, said in a memorandum to his Republican colleagues this week that a figure of as much as $2.6 trillion was "not unreasonable." Business leaders, many of whom helped finance the Republican campaign effort last year, trooped to the White House on Wednesday to tell Mr. Bush that corporations deserve a bigger tax break as well.
After defending his proposal for more than a year against accusations by Democrats that it was much too big, Mr. Bush found himself this week in the welcome position of warning against fiscal recklessness, telling those who want more that he would not go a penny above $1.6 trillion.
At the same time, he kept up the pressure on Democrats, who are struggling to hold the tax-cut line at around $800 billion over the next decade. Tax relief of that magnitude, Mr. Bush suggested, would be measly in the context of a $5.6 trillion surplus and an economy that could be headed into recession.
"The more the debate rages on the poles of both parties, the more solidly Bush is in the middle," said Scott Reed, a Republican strategist who managed Bob Dole's 1996 presidential campaign. "He's roaring right down the middle of the highway, and that's the perfect position to be in if you want to govern."
Republicans in Congress are no doubt sincere in their belief that a tax cut bigger than $1.6 trillion is justified. But they are no doubt also aware that they are doing Mr. Bush a favor by trying to tug him to the right at the same time that Democrats are trying to drag him to the left in the name of bipartisanship.
Democrats said they knew exactly what Mr. Bush was up to. But they acknowledged that their defenses against a big tax cut were crumbling.
"We're on the verge of a feeding frenzy here," said Senator Max Baucus of Montana, the senior Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee. "It's reminiscent of 1981, when every different group wanted its cut, and members of both parties attempted to outbid each other. We need a timeout."
Part of the problem for Democrats is that Mr. Bush has managed to equate tax cuts with rescuing the economy from a downturn, making voting against tax relief tantamount to a vote for rising unemployment.
It has been of little help to Democrats that tax cuts are by no means a sure-fire antidote to short-term economic weakness. Among economists there is considerable doubt as to whether any tax cut can be passed and implemented quickly enough, and be large enough at the start, to make much difference to the economy before the business cycle turns upward again.
In its current form, Mr. Bush's plan calls for no tax cut at all this year, and just $21 billion in cuts next year -- a tiny drop in a $10 trillion economy. The big tax savings would not come for five years or more, after the plan's main provisions have been fully phased in.
Mr. Bush repeated today that he would like to see Congress accelerate his plan so that it kicked in this year and put more money into the pockets of individuals in a matter of months. 
But he did not offer details of how he would like to see it done. And any move by Congress to give the tax cut substantially more economic punch in the next year or so would drive the proposal's price tag up well above Mr. Bush's target of $1.6 trillion.
At a time when businesses are questioning their plans to continue investing heavily in new technology and consumers are under pressure from high levels of debt, it is unclear how big a tax cut it would take to get the economy expanding again.
"It would be a modest help, but only a modest help," said Ed McKelvey, an economist at Goldman Sachs, who said his assessment was based on the assumption that Congress would enact a tax cut worth $30 billion to $50 billion for the current year.
Unable or unwilling to do battle over the proposed tax cut's purported economic stimulus, Democrats are trying to build a case for scaling back Mr. Bush's plan on other grounds.
The tax cut would shower its benefits disproportionately on the wealthy, they said. It would leave too little money for more pressing needs, like providing additional federal aid to schools and creating a prescription drug benefit to help retirees cope with the rising costs of medicine. And, Democrats said, it would risk a replay of the 1980's, when a big tax cut contributed to economically crippling budget deficits.
Mr. Bush is also facing some pressure from his party's right wing. Economic conservatives, who have been waiting since 1981 for another chance to push through a big tax cut, are pressing him to use his advantage now to add to his plan a reduction in the capital gains tax, among other measures.
And while his party's hard-core conservatives would no doubt be disappointed if Mr. Bush compromised too much with Democrats by scaling back his current plan, they are elated that nearly every political and economic force is going their way.
"Bush is not going to have much maneuvering room to come down," said Bill Dal Col, who managed the presidential campaign of Steve Forbes in the Republican primaries last year. "But the Democrats are going to be hard pressed not to move toward him because the economy is making people very nervous out there."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Max Baucus of Montana said competing demands for tax cuts were nearing a frenzy. (Susana Raab) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX RELIEF (93%); TAX LAW (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICS (76%); INCOME TAX (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%) TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (73%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2001 



241 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 9, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: Bush Tax Plan Sent to Congress, Starting the Jostling for Position 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 8 

 BODY:
President Bush formally sent Congress his proposal today for the broadest and deepest tax cuts in two decades, touching off a debate that seemed sure to produce a major cut in personal income taxes this year. 
 But no sooner had Mr. Bush described his plan in the Rose Garden, declaring it a boon for the working poor, than Democrats began jockeying to limit its size while conservatives and business groups sought to expand it. The White House said it would try to head off corporate lobbyists -- many representing major contributors to the Bush campaign -- who seek to garnish it with huge cuts for their wealthy clients. 
 Vice President Dick Cheney, in one of a series of interviews intended to sell the program, warned this afternoon against the temptation to expand the $1.6 trillion plan. 
"We're going to try to discourage that," Mr. Cheney said on WSMV-TV of Nashville. "President Bush met with business groups just yesterday and urged them not to fall into the trap of trying to get every pet provision added to the bill."
The elements of the plan Mr. Bush described today contained no surprises: a reduction of tax rates and a simpler structure of tax brackets; a doubling of the child tax credit to $1,000 a child; a cut of the marriage penalty that affects two-earner couples; and elimination of the estate tax -- which Mr. Bush and other Republicans call the "death tax."
Before an audience of Hispanic business owners, Mr. Bush argued that the first beneficiaries would be middle-class families, who would see the deepest percentage cuts in the taxes they pay. But their savings would be relatively small compared with those for the wealthy, whose smaller percentage cuts would reflect far larger dollar amounts.
The president also urged Congress to make the cut retroactive to Jan. 1, a move he said would help lift the nation out of an economic slowdown.
"A warning light is flashing on the dashboard of our economy," he said. "We need tax relief now. In fact, we need tax relief yesterday."
Under current law, the five tax brackets range from one of 15 percent for households with taxable annual income of not more than $27,050 for single taxpayers -- and $45,200 for married taxpayers filing jointly -- to one of 39.6 percent for taxable income of more than $297,350.
Under the plan, the lowest bracket would be 10 percent, for single taxpayers earning up to $6,000 a year or married taxpayers earning up to $12,000. (Those taxpayers rarely, in fact, have any income tax liability.) The highest rate would be 33 percent, for single taxpayers earning more than $136,750 and married taxpayers with income of more than $166,500.
The Bush plan would, over eight years, end the estate tax, which now applies only to estates of more than $675,000 for individuals, and roughly double that for married couples.
By the time Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill formally delivered the proposal on Capitol Hill, the clamor to alter it radically was already in full cry.
Democrats called the savings for the poorest households illusory: While Mr. Bush boasts that his plan would drop the taxes of a poor family of four to zero, families of four making up to roughly $25,000 now pay little or no income tax. And the plan does nothing to cut the $3,800 such a family would pay annually in Social Security and Medicare payroll taxes.
Isaac Shapiro, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal-leaning group, estimates that "12 million families, both the poor and those just above the poverty line, are left out entirely" of the Bush plan.
This afternoon, Lawrence B. Lindsey, the White House's economic adviser, declined to say why the administration would provide no relief to the working poor, who pay only payroll taxes.
"I want to focus on the structure of the tax cut the president sent up today," he said, adding later that under Mr. Bush's Social Security reform proposals, the poorest workers, like the richest, would have "more control over that money for investment purposes."
Such statistics led the Democratic leaders of the House and Senate, Richard A. Gephardt and Tom Daschle, to summon reporters for a display of their own automotive metaphor for the tax plan.
As they appeared with a black Lexus sedan and battered replacement muffler, Mr. Daschle argued that the car was "just like the Bush tax cut -- fully loaded. If you're a millionaire, under the Bush tax cut, you get a $46,000 tax cut, more than enough to pay for this Lexus. But if you're a typical working person, you get $227, and that's enough to buy this muffler."
Republicans welcomed Mr. Bush's plan, with Dick Armey, the House majority leader, saying, "This is one of the most exciting days of my congressional career."
But the race was on to make the cut even bigger than the $1.6 trillion, over 10 years, that President Bush has insisted is "the right figure."
Hundreds of lobbyists have swarmed across Capitol Hill in recent days complaining that there is nothing in the tax cut for businesses -- beyond making the research and development tax credit permanent, and eliminating, over eight years, the estate tax.
Mr. O'Neill, the former chairman of Alcoa, has said he believes that the corporate income tax should be eliminated -- just not this year.
Others are not so patient. At a presentation to members of Congress on Tuesday, Andrew Grove, the chairman of the Intel Corporation, made a pitch for large tax breaks for small businesses that install high-speed links to the Internet.
"The real digital divide in the U.S. economy is between small businesses that are information have-nots and large businesses," he said. But he also acknowledged a desire to help the once high-flying technology corporations that were hit in last year's market selloff. 
The frenzy itself reflects how quickly the political reality about tax cuts has shifted here. Throughout the presidential campaign, Mr. Bush's call for a major tax cut -- $1.3 trillion at the time -- seemed politically unattainable. President Bill Clinton seemed to cut off prospects of a major tax cut by declaring that the surpluses should go toward saving Social Security first -- leaving very little room for anything else.
Since Mr. Bush arrived in Washington, though, the ground has shifted drastically. The slowing economy and the blessing by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, of some kind of tax cut created an unexpected momentum in Mr. Bush's direction.
Now Democrats speak of trying to hold the cut to $700 billion to $900 billion -- twice what Al Gore proposed during the campaign -- and Mr. Bush's bigger challenge may be to hold off demands in his own party to expand his tax cuts further.
The big question is whether the White House is just making a show of limiting the tax cut to $1.6 trillion, or if it really plans to hold the line.
The chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Charles Grassley, an Iowa Republican, urged Mr. Bush today to veto any tax-cut plan that exceeded his $1.6 trillion proposal. 
"If it looks like it's getting out of hand, I would encourage the president to say that he would veto it," Mr. Grassley said. 
Asked whether Mr. Bush would follow that advice, Mr. Lindsey shrugged and offered no answer -- an invitation to the lobbyists to push their favorite provisions into whatever tax bill emerges.
Mr. Bush's proposal today was, in many respects, a page from Ronald Reagan's playbook in 1981. The cuts enacted that year are still the subject of ferocious argument, with many Republicans insisting they began America's economic boom, and many Democrats saying they created an era of fiscal irresponsibility and huge debts.
Mr. Bush, who has learned much from the ways Mr. Reagan handled the first days of his presidency, quoted a Democrat today, noting that President John F. Kennedy had pressed for a tax cut himself.
"He warned then against storing up dollars in Washington by taking away more than the government needed to pay its necessary expenses," Mr. Bush said. "High tax rates, he said -- and I quote -- 'are no longer necessary. They are, in fact, harmful. These high tax rates do not leave enough money in private hands to keep this country's economy growing and healthy.' " 
But the conditions at that time were very different: The top tax rate was 91 percent, on income of more than $200,000 for single taxpayers and $400,000 for married taxpayers, and the government deficit was relatively small.
And today, dollars are not "stored up" in Washington; they go to pay down the national debt.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 13, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Friday showing how President Bush's proposed tax cut would affect 14 hypothetical households misstated the figures for a married couple with two children and a gross income of $20,000 a year before deductions. Correcting its model yesterday, the accounting firm of Deloitte & Touche said that such a couple, claiming the dependent child care credit, would realize no tax saving -- not $33 in the first year and $168 when the tax plan was fully phased in.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush sending his tax proposal to Congress yesterday. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A1); From left, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, at the Capitol yesterday to deliver the Bush tax cut plan, with Representative Bill Thomas and Representative Dick Armey, the majority leader.; Democrats used a visual gimmick to attack the president's plan. Under the plan, Senator Tom Daschle said, a millionaire would get enough to buy a Lexus, but "a typical working person" would get enough for a muffler. (Photographs by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A20) Chart: "What the Tax Cuts Would Mean for Different Families"Accountants at Deloitte & Touche calculated how various households would fare under President Bush's tax proposal. GROSS INCOME BEFORE DEDUCTIONS: $20,000FILING STATUS: SingleTAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: $1,883SAVINGS IN FIRST YEAR OF BUSH TAX CUTS: SAVINGS$60 WHEN BUSH TAX CUTS ARE FULLY PHASED IN: FIRST$300 INCOME: $20,000SECOND INCOME: -- GROSS INCOME BEFORE DEDUCTIONS: $20,000FILING STATUS: Head of Household -- One childTAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: -SAVINGS$691 IN FIRST YEAR OF BUSH TAX CUTS: SAVINGS$176 WHEN BUSH TAX CUTS ARE FULLY PHASED IN: FIRST$633 INCOME: $20,000SECOND INCOME: -- GROSS INCOME BEFORE DEDUCTIONS: $20,000FILING STATUS: Married filing jointly* -- Two childrenTAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: -$2,553SAVINGS IN FIRST YEAR OF BUSH TAX CUTS: SAVINGS$33 WHEN BUSH TAX CUTS ARE FULLY PHASED IN: FIRST$168 INCOME: $12,000SECOND INCOME: $8,000 GROSS INCOME BEFORE DEDUCTIONS: $60,000FILING STATUS: SingleTAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: $8,272SAVINGS IN FIRST YEAR OF BUSH TAX CUTS: SAVINGS$211 WHEN BUSH TAX CUTS ARE FULLY PHASED IN: FIRST$752 INCOME: $60,000SECOND INCOME: -- GROSS INCOME BEFORE DEDUCTIONS: $60,000FILING STATUS: Married filing jointly -- No childrenTAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: $5,880SAVINGS IN FIRST YEAR OF BUSH TAX CUTS: SAVINGS$180 WHEN BUSH TAX CUTS ARE FULLY PHASED IN: FIRST$900 INCOME: $40,000SECOND INCOME: $20,000 GROSS INCOME BEFORE DEDUCTIONS: $60,000FILING STATUS: Married filing jointly* -- Two childrenTAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: $3,050SAVINGS IN FIRST YEAR OF BUSH TAX CUTS: SAVINGS$380 WHEN BUSH TAX CUTS ARE FULLY PHASED IN: $1,900FIRST INCOME: $40,000SECOND INCOME: $20,000 GROSS INCOME BEFORE DEDUCTIONS: $100,000FILING STATUS: Married filing jointly -- One childTAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: $13,308SAVINGS IN FIRST YEAR OF BUSH TAX CUTS: SAVINGS$633 WHEN BUSH TAX CUTS ARE FULLY PHASED IN: $2,603FIRST INCOME: $140,000SECOND INCOME: $60,000 GROSS INCOME BEFORE DEDUCTIONS: $200,000FILING STATUS: Married filing jointly -- No childrenTAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: $39,298SAVINGS IN FIRST YEAR OF BUSH TAX CUTS: $1,441SAVINGS WHEN BUSH TAX CUTS ARE FULLY PHASED IN: $6,138FIRST INCOME: $140,000SECOND INCOME: $60,000 GROSS INCOME BEFORE DEDUCTIONS: $200,000FILING STATUS: Married filing jointly* -- Two childrenTAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: $36,565SAVINGS IN FIRST YEAR OF BUSH TAX CUTS: $1,408SAVINGS WHEN BUSH TAX CUTS ARE FULLY PHASED IN: $7,480FIRST INCOME: $140,000SECOND INCOME: $60,000 GROSS INCOME BEFORE DEDUCTIONS: $500,000FILING STATUS: SingleTAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: $173,175SAVINGS IN FIRST YEAR OF BUSH TAX CUTS: $5,933SAVINGS WHEN BUSH TAX CUTS ARE FULLY PHASED IN: $23,621FIRST INCOME: $500,000SECOND INCOME: -- GROSS INCOME BEFORE DEDUCTIONS: $500,000FILING STATUS: Married filing jointly -- Two childrenTAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: $138,542SAVINGS IN FIRST YEAR OF BUSH TAX CUTS: $4,621SAVINGS WHEN BUSH TAX CUTS ARE FULLY PHASED IN: $18,044FIRST INCOME: $500,000SECOND INCOME: -- GROSS INCOME BEFORE DEDUCTIONS: $1,000,000FILING STATUS: SingleTAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: $311,997SAVINGS IN FIRST YEAR OF BUSH TAX CUTS: $11,542SAVINGS WHEN BUSH TAX CUTS ARE FULLY PHASED IN: $46,758FIRST INCOME: $1,000,000SECOND INCOME: -- GROSS INCOME BEFORE DEDUCTIONS: $1,000,000FILING STATUS: Married filing jointly -- No childrenTAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: $306,842SAVINGS IN FIRST YEAR OF BUSH TAX CUTS: $11,655SAVINGS WHEN BUSH TAX CUTS ARE FULLY PHASED IN: $47,114FIRST INCOME: $600,000SECOND INCOME: $400,000 GROSS INCOME BEFORE DEDUCTIONS: $1,000,000FILING STATUS: Married filing jointly -- Two childrenTAXES OWED UNDER CURRENT LAW: $306,842SAVINGS IN FIRST YEAR OF BUSH TAX CUTS: $11,421SAVINGS WHEN BUSH TAX CUTS ARE FULLY PHASED IN: $46,094FIRST INCOME: $1,000,000SECOND INCOME: -- Note: A negative number in the "taxes owed under current law" row indicates a rebate due. Incomes of less than $50,000 reflect the standard deduction; others use estimated itemized deductions based on I.R.S data.*Claiming the dependent child care credit. (pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); ESTATE TAX (90%); LOBBYING (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ESTATE PLANNING (86%); MARRIAGE (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); AFFLUENT MARKET (74%); CONSERVATISM (71%); WILLS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%) TAXATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; WILLS AND ESTATES; MARRIAGES; TAX CREDITS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CORPORATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); DICK CHENEY (90%); TOM DASCHLE (71%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2001 



242 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 YEN DECLINES. The Bank of Japan lowered its discount rate, bolstering speculation the economy will have to stumble more before the bank cuts the overnight rate. In New York, the dollar settled at 117.67 yen, up from 116.62.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since August. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%) CURRENCY 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (58%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (75%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2001 



243 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: Net Drops 11%, But Electrolux Sees Good Year 

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE KAPNER 

DATELINE: LONDON, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
Electrolux A.B., the maker of Frigidaire refrigerators and other appliance brands, said today that a streamlining program, including the elimination of 2,000 jobs, would buoy its profits this year despite a looming slowdown in the United States economy.
 That positive outlook came even as the company, based in Sweden, released results for 2000 that included an 11 percent decline in fourth-quarter profit, before special charges, to 1.4 billion kronor ($145 million). 
Earnings per share rose slightly because the company had been buying back and retiring shares. 
 Group sales rose 4 percent, to 29.4 billion kronor ($3.05 billion) from 28.4 billion kronor a year earlier.
Electrolux said it would continue restructuring and save 440 million kronor in 2001 by eliminating 2,000 jobs. Since joining the company in 1997, the chief executive, Michael Treschow, has trimmed the work force 11 percent, with more than half the cuts coming last year. Electrolux took a restructuring charge of 1.12 billion kronor in 2000. With growth easing on both sides of the Atlantic, it will need to continue nipping and tucking to meet profit forecasts.
Nearly half the company's revenue last year came from sales of consumer durables in the United States, which declined 2 percent in the fourth quarter. Two competitors, Whirlpool and Maytag, also reported declining earnings last month.
Sales for "white goods," major appliances like washers and dryers, slowed 1 percent in Europe in the fourth quarter, after growing 9 percent in the first quarter of 2000. Still, in 2001 Electrolux expects demand in Europe, Asia and Latin America to compensate for a slackening in the United States and, coupled with cost reductions, to help "achieve improvements in income and value created for the full year 2001." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAJOR APPLIANCE MFG (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); LABOR FORCE (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); EXECUTIVES (53%) COMPANY REPORTS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: AB ELECTROLUX (97%)

ORGANIZATION: ELECTROLUX AB 

TICKER: ELUX.B (STO) (97%); ELUX.A (STO) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3639 HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCES, NEC (97%); SIC3633 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT (97%); SIC3632 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATORS & HOME & FARM FREEZERS (97%)

PERSON: KAPNER, SUZANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); SWEDEN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (65%); ASIA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2001 



244 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Motorola Cuts 3% of Its Jobs As Chip Demand Cools Off 

BYLINE:  By DAVID BARBOZA 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Feb. 9 

 BODY:
Motorola Inc. said today that it would eliminate 4,000 of its semiconductor jobs, or about 3 percent of its global work force, because of slowing demand for its products.
 The job cuts, which come just weeks after Motorola laid off 2,500 employees and closed its last domestic cellular telephone plant, are further evidence that the economy is slowing, and that big makers of cell phones and the chips that power them and other communications devices are reducing their operations. 
 Nokia, Cisco Systems, 3Com and other large high-technology businesses have been faltering recently, forcing the companies to trim their profit forecasts, and in some cases, prune their work forces. 
Motorola, one of the world's biggest producers of cell phones and semiconductors, said the downturn resulted from weak consumer spending and the resulting oversupply that led to semiconductor inventory buildup at many of its customers.
"The chip industry has been going through one of its periodic declines," said Ken Phillips, a spokesman at Motorola, which is based in Schaumburg, Ill. "We've been cutting costs, cutting operating budgets and now we're at the point where we have to cut people."
Shares of Motorola, which have been battered for much of the last six months on declining profit expectations, fell 4.6 percent, or 92 cents yesterday, to $18.90.
The company, whose cell phone business has also stumbled, in part because of marketing blunders and high manufacturing costs, is now trying to reduce its expenses through job cuts, outsourcing and attrition.
After faltering badly in 1997 and 1998, the company's profits and share price rebounded strongly in 1999 and the early part of 2000 under the leadership of Christopher B. Galvin, the chief executive. 
Now, after an executive shake-up, Mr. Galvin is trying to reignite a company that just a year ago was aggressively pushing plans to put itself at the center of the wired world with chips that would power wireless devices in everything from cell phones to cars to digital televisions to wired appliances.
Today, however, Motorola seemed to be giving more evidence of moderating its expectations. The company said the 4,000 job cuts represent about 12 percent of its chip-making work force. No chip-making operations are expected to be closed.
The efforts are supposed to help Motorola recover from a sharp profit slowdown that came into view after the third quarter of last year, when the company said its fourth-quarter profit would fall far short of expectations. The downturn is expected to continue at least through the first half of this year, Motorola said.
The company, which makes chips for its own cell phones, said today that all parts of its chip business were faltering, including demand for chips that are used in cell phones, automobiles, digital products and communications or networking equipment. Just about every segment of the business has been hurt by an overcapacity of semiconductors on the market.
"This just reflects what's going on in the industry," said Brian Modoff, an analyst at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown. "There's been an overestimation of demand, and now they're trying to rationalize their business." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (91%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INVENTORIES (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (75%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); POLICE FORCES (71%); CONSUMER SPENDING (70%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (61%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; COMPUTER CHIPS 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (96%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: MOTOROLA INC 

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (96%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (96%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%) SIC3663 RADIO & TV COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT; 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2001 



245 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Report to Back Forests to Fight Warming 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
An influential panel of scientists is preparing to endorse two strategies for curtailing global warming that have been major points of contention between the United States and Europe in efforts to complete a climate treaty. 
 In a report scheduled for next month, the panel concludes that by protecting existing forests and planting new ones, countries could blunt warming by sopping up 10 to 20 percent of the heat-trapping carbon dioxide that is expected to be released by smokestacks and tailpipes over the next 50 years. 
 It also says the cost to industrialized countries of a global climate plan could be cut in half if they were allowed to buy and sell credits earned by those that make the deepest reductions in carbon dioxide and other so-called greenhouse gases.
The conclusions could bolster the position of the United States when negotiations over details of the treaty resume this summer. But some experts involved in the talks stressed that a scientific analysis of untested climate-control strategies says little about whether such efforts would prove effective. 
"The big question is whether real programs in the real world will work," said Dr. Daniel A. Lashof, a senior scientist at the Natural Resources Defense Council, a private environmental group. "The devil's in the details."
The report was written by a working group within the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a network of hundreds of scientists who advise governments on climate issues under the auspices of the United Nations. The group plans to release it at a meeting in Ghana.
A final draft was recently sent to governments for comment, and a copy was given to The New York Times by an American official. 
The panel's findings are closely watched by governments as a barometer of mainstream scientific thinking on global warming. 
A report by another working group last month concluded that the burning of fossil fuels and other human activities are responsible for most of a one-degree rise in average global temperatures measured in the last 50 years. This was the first time the 12-year-old panel found that human actions were the dominant force behind the recent warming.
The climate treaty, the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, would require 38 industrial countries to cut emissions of greenhouse gases by 2012 to 5 percent below emission levels in 1990. It has been signed by more than 100 countries but lacks fine print and has not yet been ratified. 
Negotiations over details broke down at a tumultuous meeting in November in The Hague when the European Union rejected an American proposal calling for trading in credits for emissions reductions and granting credit for planting forests and crops. 
The report lends some new credence to the American positions. According to the panel, "Forests, agricultural lands and other terrestrial ecosystems offer significant, if often temporary, mitigation potential." 
Even if the carbon taken from atmospheric carbon dioxide is eventually released again from plants or soil, the report said, "conservation and sequestration allow time for other options to be further developed and implemented."
The scientists added that if the rules for such living carbon reservoirs were right, they could also preserve endangered species and improve water quality.
The European Union and some private environmental groups have opposed giving credit for forest planting, saying it could take the pressure off industrial countries to cut emissions from the source: vehicles, power plants and industry. 
In The Hague, the United States scaled back the amount of credit it sought for farm and forest changes, but American negotiators and many representatives in Congress say this remains an essential component of the final Kyoto treaty.
Trading of emissions credits is equally contentious. Such trading is a way of encouraging the greatest cuts in pollution where they can be done most cheaply. In theory, under such a program the United States or another wealthy country -- either directly or indirectly -- could get credit toward greenhouse-gas targets by investing in new, efficient power plants in, say, Eastern Europe. 
The new plants would represent a big leap in performance over old, pollution-belching plants there, proponents of trading say. Building similar plants in the United States would cost more and would result in a smaller improvement in emissions. 
According to the new report, a variety of economic models predict that a climate plan without trading among industrialized countries would result in a range of losses to their gross domestic products of anywhere from two-tenths of 1 percent to 2.2 percent. Under a climate plan with emissions trading, the range of losses could be cut in half. 
Over all, the report says, even in the middle of this range of possible losses, costs of adjusting power plants and other sources of greenhouse emissions would be small enough that no substantial economic harm would result. On one point, the scientific panel, some environmental groups and some industry officials all agree: To make emissions trading work, there must be clear, enforced rules and an accurate way of measuring changes in gas emissions. 
"If you don't have a system that's legitimate and verifiable, there's tremendous potential for gaming the system," said Dale E. Heydlauff, senior vice president for environmental affairs of American Electric Power, a $12-billion-a-year energy company that supports trading under the climate treaty.
But some environmental groups insist that there is a moral obligation for countries to make a significant amount of their emissions reductions at home. 
"From the European perspective, we think that should be a priority," said Frances MacGuire, the climate change policy director in the London office of Friends of the Earth. "There is a place for trading, but it shouldn't be without limit." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%) WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; CARBON DIOXIDE; FORESTS AND FORESTRY; TREATIES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (82%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (55%) UNITED NATIONS; INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C 

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (70%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); GHANA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2001 



246 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1189 words

PERSON: Herbert A. Simon 

HEADLINE: Herbert A. Simon Dies at 84; Won a Nobel for Economics 

BYLINE:  By PAUL LEWIS 

 BODY:
Herbert A. Simon, an American polymath who won the Nobel in economics in 1978 with a new theory of decision making and who helped pioneer the idea that computers can exhibit artificial intelligence that mirrors human thinking, died yesterday. He was 84.
 He died at the Presbyterian University Hospital of Pittsburgh, according to an announcement by Carnegie Mellon University, which said the cause was complications after surgery last month. Mr. Simon was the Richard King Mellon University Professor of Computer Science and Psychology at the university -- a title that underscored the breadth of his interests and learning. 
 Mr. Simon also won the A. M. Turing Award for his work on computer science in 1975 and the National Medal of Science in 1986. In 1993, he was awarded the American Psychological Association's award for outstanding lifetime contributions to psychology.
In 1994, he became one of only 14 foreign scientists ever to be inducted into the Chinese Academy of Sciences and in 1995 was given awards by the International Joint Conferences on Artificial Intelligence and the American Society of Public Administration.
Awarding him the Nobel, the Swedish Academy of Sciences cited "his pioneering research into the decision-making process within economic organizations" and acknowledged that "modern business economics and administrative research are largely based on Simon's ideas."
Professor Simon challenged the classical economic theory that economic behavior was essentially rational behavior in which decisions were made on the basis of all available information with a view to securing the optimum result possible for each decision maker.
Instead, Professor Simon contended that in today's complex world individuals cannot possibly process or even obtain all the information they need to make fully rational decisions. Rather, they try to make decisions that are good enough and that represent reasonable or acceptable outcomes.
He called this less ambitious view of human decision making "bounded rationality" or "intended rational behavior" and described the results it brought as "satisficing."
In his book "Administrative Behavior" he set out the implications of this approach, rejecting the notion of an omniscient "economic man" capable of making decisions that bring the greatest benefit possible and substituting instead the idea of "administrative man" who "satisfices -- looks for a course of action that is satisfactory or 'good enough.' "
Professor Simon's interest in decision making led him logically into the fields of computer science, psychology and political science. His belief that human decisions were made within clear constraints seemed to conform with the way that computers are programmed to resolve problems with defined parameters.
In the mid-1950's, he teamed up with Allen Newell of the Rand Corporation to study human decision making by trying to simulate it on computers, using a strategy he called thinking aloud.
People were asked for the general reasoning processes they went through as they solved logical problems and these were then converted into computer programs that Professor Simon and Mr. Newell thought equipped these machines with a kind of artificial intelligence that enabled them to simulate human thought rather than just perform stereotyped procedures.
The breakthrough came in December 1955 when Professor Simon and his colleague succeeded in writing a computer program that could prove mathematical theorems taken from the Bertrand Russell and Alfred North Whitehead classic on mathematical logic, "Principia Mathematica."
The following January, Professor Simon celebrated this discovery by walking into a class and announcing to his students, "Over the Christmas holiday, Al Newell and I invented a thinking machine."
A subsequent letter to Lord Russell explaining his achievement elicited the reply: "I am delighted to know that 'Principia Mathematica' can now be done by machinery. I wish Whitehead and I had known of this possibility before we wasted 10 years doing it by hand."
But in a much-cited 1957 paper Professor Simon seemed to allow his own enthusiasm for artificial intelligence to run too far ahead of its more realistic possibilities. Within 10 years, he predicted, "a digital computer will be the world's chess champion unless the rules bar it from competition," while within the "visible future," he said, "machines that think, that learn and that create" will be able to handle challenges "coextensive with the range to which the human mind has been applied."
Sure enough, the I.B.M computer Deep Blue did finally beat the world chess champion Gary Kasparov last year -- about three decades after Mr. Simon had predicted the event would occur. 
Because artificial intelligence has not grown as quickly or as strongly as Professor Simon hoped, critics of his thinking argue that there are limits to what computers can achieve and that what they accomplish will always be a simulation of human thought, not creative thinking itself. As a result, Professor Simon's achievements have sparked a passionate and continuing debate about the differences between people and thinking machines.
Born on June 15, 1916, the son of German immigrants, in Milwaukee, Herbert A. Simon attended public school and entered the University of Chicago in 1933 with the intention of bringing the same rigorous methodology to the social sciences as existed in physics and other "hard" sciences.
As an undergraduate his interest in decision making was aroused when he made a field study of Milwaukee's recreation department. After receiving his bachelor's degree in 1936 he became an assistant to Clarence E. Ridley of the International City Managers Association and then continued work on administrative techniques in the Bureau of Public Administration of the University of California at Berkeley.
In 1942, he moved to the Illinois Institute of Technology and in 1943 received his doctorate from the University of Chicago for a dissertation subsequently published in 1947 as "Administrative Behavior: A Study of Decision-Making Processes in Administrative Organizations."
In 1937, he married Dorothea Pye, who survives him along with three children, Katherine Simon Frank of Minneapolis; Peter A. Simon of Bryan, Tex.; and Barbara M. Simon of Wilder, Vt.; six grandchildren, three step-grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
A member of the faculty of Carnegie Mellon University since 1949, Professor Simon played important roles in the formation of several departments and schools including the Graduate School of Industrial Administration, the School of Computer Science and the College of Humanities and Social Sciences' psychology department.
He published 27 books, of which the best known today are "Models of Bounded Rationality" (1997), "Sciences of the Artificial"(1996) and "Administrative Behavior"(1997).
In 1991 he published his autobiography, "Models of My Life," and remarked then about his vision of that all-vanquishing computer hunched over the chess boards of the world: "I still feel good about my prediction. Only the time frame was a bit short." And so it was.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Herbert A. Simon (Ken Andreyo/Carnegie Mellon University) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); AWARDS & PRIZES (91%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (66%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%)

SIMON, HERBERT A (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); SWEDEN (79%)

CATEGORY: Science and Technology 

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2001 



247 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: State's Poorest Facing Loss Of U.S. Aid 

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

 BODY:
Nearly a third of New York State's poorest families risk losing their federal welfare benefits at the end of this year, when the first batch of welfare recipients hits the new lifetime limit for receiving public assistance, new state figures show. Their cash benefits will be replaced by a system of state and local aid, but the details are far from worked out.
 This December, about 71,400 families, with roughly two children each, will have been on welfare for five years, the federal limit enacted in the 1996 overhaul of the system, according to the estimates released this week. 
 State officials speculate that these families are not measurably different from the rest of the welfare caseload. Among the most striking facts about them is that about 28 percent are wage earners who work an average of 30 hours a week but who still cannot lift their families above poverty. The vast majority -- more than 59,000 families -- live in New York City, followed by the upstate counties that include the cities of Buffalo and Rochester, with 2,800 and 2,400 families respectively. 
These families are widely regarded to be among the most marginal of the state's welfare recipients. Most were unable to capitalize on the economic boom of recent years. They are likely to suffer from mental illness or substance abuse problems. About 15 percent are considered to have a disability that keeps them from working. That is twice the share of disabled people in the overall welfare caseload.
State officials use this data as an illustration of their own progress in moving people off the welfare rolls. In 1995, a year before federal time limits were enacted, about 148,000 welfare families in New York had been on public assistance for five years or longer. That number has shrunk by half, officials said. And by December, when the federal deadline hits, they hope to have reduced it further to 45,000 families. 
"We've still got work to do to change the culture of cash assistance," Robert Doar, the executive deputy commissioner at the State Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance, said in an interview yesterday. "The message to families is this is not a lifetime arrangement."
But advocates for the poor say the number of people facing the deadline gives cause for concern. 
"I think it's a wake-up call," said Anne Ericson, executive director of the Great Upstate Law Project, a poor people's advocacy group in Albany.
"Here's a population that's deep in poverty, that's doing what we're asking them to do, and because we have a federal law that is completely arbitrary and says from this day on, we will not help you -- as far as the federal government is concerned, they are no longer needy, no longer worthy," Ms. Ericson said.
In New York, no one will actually lose benefits in December. After the welfare overhaul, some states, like Wisconsin and Florida, imposed shorter time limits, and about 60,000 families across the country have lost their benefits, according to a June 2000 study by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal-leaning group. But at least eight states, including New York, have pledged to pick up the cost of those who were left on the rolls after the time limits hit. Many other states are considering extensions and waivers. 
Two crucial things will happen in New York when the sand pours to the bottom of the hourglass for the first batch of welfare families. First, those families will see their cash benefits significantly reduced. Instead, they will get a new debit card, similar to a bank card, to buy goods of roughly the same value as the reduction in their cash benefits. The Electronic Debit Transfer cards will not be ready until at least March 2002, officials said. 
Under the new local system, known as Safety Net, a family of three in New York City that now receives, say, $291 a month in cash benefits will receive $58.20 a month in cash for personal expenses and a debit card valid for the rest.
A debit card system, however, cannot always be stretched like cash, the welfare recipients and their advocates point out. "You are restricting them to what is, for this population, potentially high-cost venues," Ms. Ericson said. For example, a toy that can be bought used for $3 at a yard sale might cost $10 at Kmart, advocates say. State officials cannot yet say whether the cards will be valid at low-cost alternatives, like the thrift stores operated by the Salvation Army. 
The state and local counties will have to pick up the cost of these benefits. The federal government will no longer contribute its 50 percent share, as it does now. It will make exceptions for some of those welfare recipients who cannot work because of a disability. 
Officials with the state and New York City, which will shoulder the largest share of those reaching time limits, could not provide estimates of how much the Safety Net program would cost. 
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has said the city will provide subsidized jobs for up to six months to those reaching the five-year limit. After that, he said last month in his annual address to the City Council, they will have to work for Safety Net benefits. 
For state and local government agencies, the bureaucratic hurdles themselves are formidable. State welfare officials have notified each of the state's 62 counties about the families in their respective caseloads that are approaching the time limits. County officials, in turn, must reassess their own clients. 
The challenge now, state and county officials said in interviews this week, is to shrink the numbers further still.
So, over the coming year, state and county officials plan to focus on this segment of their caseload. Many of them have begun notifying families who are nearing their deadlines. They will try to transfer some in this group to other federal aid programs, like those that offer disability benefits. They will go after child support payments from absent fathers more aggressively.
In Suffolk County, for example, welfare officials said they had already begun to conduct intensive interviews with recipients nearing their five-year limits to assess what has kept them from becoming self-sufficient. "Early indications are that many are disabled or need significant rehabilitation," said Dennis Nowak, a spokesman for the Department of Social Services. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POOR POPULATION (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); FAMILY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CHILDREN (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (66%); MENTAL ILLNESS (65%); DISABLED PERSONS (64%); EXECUTIVES (61%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%) WELFARE (US) 

PERSON: SENGUPTA, SOMINI 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2001 



248 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: NYC; 
Scrounging To Feather A New Nest

BYLINE:  By CLYDE HABERMAN 

 BODY:
DEAR NYC:
We are a middle-aged couple who have lived in public housing nearly our entire adult lives. Through no fault of our own, we were forced to leave our last residence and strike out on our own. As we left, we took a few items that we thought were meant for us -- nothing much, just some lamps, a couple of sofas, an ottoman, a kitchen table and four chairs. 
Out of the blue, the managers of our old housing complex said we had no business taking these things. So we returned them. Now we have to find replacements, and haven't a clue where to start. Any suggestions?

Yours truly,
Chairless in Chappaqua

Dear Chairless:
 Have you tried Goodwill? The furniture selection seems not to be quite what it once was, but there are still some excellent bargains to be had. 
 We discovered that on visits yesterday to a thrift store in Harlem and to Astoria, Queens, where Goodwill Industries of Greater New York and Northern New Jersey has its headquarters.
In case you've never been to the Astoria site, it is an impressive operation. It employs scores of people and tends each day to some 300 New Yorkers who go there for a variety of programs: English instruction, welfare-to-work training, computer courses, day care and the like.
You might have found the warehouse especially interesting, Chairless. It was humming yesterday. Workers, some of them mentally or physically disabled, sorted through what seemed to be tons of clothes. All of the goods were donated and destined for the most part to wind up at 29 Goodwill thrift stores in the New York region.
Business has been good in recent years, the people at Goodwill say. At the Salvation Army, officials say basically the same thing. In a thriving economy, it seems, people are prepared to be generous, and not only when it comes to a middle-aged couple accustomed to living well (and rent-free) in public housing.
But nothing can be taken for granted, said William Forrester, Goodwill's executive vice president. For one thing, nonprofit groups like his have to fend off growing competition from profit-seeking companies that also collect old clothes and furniture, and run their own thrift shops.
"It is a tougher world to operate in every year," Mr. Forrester said.
Then, too, the economy may head south. That's when donations may shrivel, as people decide to "push the suit an extra season," he said. Meanwhile, others may have no choice but to "drop down a notch" and head for thrift stores in search of bargains.
Here's the thing, though, Chairless. Many people think that all they will find in Goodwill stores is schlock. That is not necessarily the case.
"The misconception is that Goodwill is only for low-income people," said Mauricio Hernandez, the organization's director of operations. "That just doesn't apply. We have people coming from all segments of society to our stores."
They include the likes of Alfred G. Vanderbilt (yes, Chairless, as in the Vanderbilts). Mr. Vanderbilt is on Goodwill's board of directors, and is its spokesman at times. He was on hand the other day at the opening of a new thrift shop in Harrison, N.J. While there, he could not resist plunking down $9.99 for a cappuccino maker.
Frankly, our first instinct was to wonder if times were harder than we'd realized. Not to worry. It is simply that "when you go to a store and get a good price for something, you buy it," Mr. Vanderbilt said.
And that, Chairless, is really the point. Now that you're out of public housing, you might try buying something on your own.
If high prices are a concern, you can go to the large Goodwill store at Fifth Avenue and 135th Street in Harlem. No offense, but if a thrift shop is O.K. for a Vanderbilt, you may want to set your own sights a little lower.
The furniture selection is a shadow of what it was a few months ago, said Michael Mathlin, the Harlem store manager. Collecting donated furniture began to be very expensive, he said, and is now done in a limited way.
Still, some good buys remain, Chairless, though you better move fast. A $600 bedroom set has been sold. But there are matching striped sofas to be had for $195, possible replacements for the ones you gave back. There is also a kitchen table, with four chairs, for only $275, and a coffee table for $75.
Tried to find you a substitute ottoman yesterday, but didn't see one. Sorry. Nobody's perfect. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (89%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (88%); POOR POPULATION (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); POLITICS (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GIFTS; ETHICS; WHITE HOUSE (WASHINGTON, DC); FURNITURE 

ORGANIZATION: GOODWILL INDUSTRIES 

INDUSTRY:  SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES; SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES; 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE; CLINTON, BILL; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2001 



249 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Stocks Drop Broadly, Wiping Out Gains of 2001 Rally

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Despite two Federal Reserve rate cuts and a big technology stock rally in January, the three major stock indexes have now given up all their gains for the year.
 The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index fell 3.6 percent yesterday and is now ahead just 0.02 percent for the year. Two and a half weeks ago, it was roaring ahead with a 15.7 percent gain. 
 Smaller declines yesterday in the Dow Jones industrial average, off 0.9 percent, and the Standard & Poor's 500 index, down 1.3 percent, nudged those indexes to slight losses for the year. 
Since the technology rally peaked last month, investors have begun to grapple with two disappointments. The first is that the Federal Reserve, which fueled the Nasdaq run-up with a cut of a full percentage point in its benchmark interest rate last month, may be less aggressive in lowering rates in the months ahead.
The second is drooping earnings reports in the technology sector, capped this week by a jolt from Cisco Systems. After 44 quarters of consecutive revenue growth, Cisco said its revenues would decline as much as 5 percent this quarter and be flat in the next quarter.
With Wall Street forecasters already predicting that corporate earnings will fall 1.2 percent in the first quarter and 0.2 percent in the second quarter, the Cisco forecast, weak reports from other companies and layoff announcements are making investors doubt whether the economy and corporate profits will recover by the second half of the year. Technology companies' earnings, according to First Call/ Thomson Financial, are now expected to decline for the next three quarters.
"Technology is down, and the fundamentals are still deteriorating," said Thomas McManus, the equity strategist at Banc of America Securities. "And I believe that the risk is that technology suffers another leg down."
Mr. McManus said that much of the recent rally was powered by once-wary investors, who avoided stocks at the end of last year, jumping back in the market this year. One reason for this activity -- often referred to as the January effect -- is that investors seem more willing to take on risk when they have a whole year ahead to recover from setbacks.
People who sold stocks to take tax losses at the end of 2000 also saw these stocks as relatively cheap as the year began. This momentum was supercharged by the Fed's cuts in interest rates. But looking back, Mr. McManus said, "The market just took leave of its senses in January."
The Standard & Poor's 500 index dropped 17.77 points yesterday to 1,314.76 and was off 2.6 percent for the week. It is now down 0.4 percent for the year after being up as much as 4 percent. The Dow industrial average fell 99.10 points, to 10,781.45, and is down 0.8 percent for the week. The Dow is now off 0.05 percent for the year after being up 1.8 percent. The Nasdaq finished the day down 91.09 points at 2,470.97. For the week, it was off 7.1 percent, its worst showing since a 9.1 percent plunge in the second week of December.
The Dow and the S.& P. 500 have suffered less than the Nasdaq because they are filled with stocks investors are turning to as the 2001 technology rally fizzles. Exxon Mobil, Philip Morris, Johnson & Johnson and McDonald's all rose yesterday, limiting the Dow's decline. Pfizer and Anheuser-Busch joined these stocks in retarding the S.& P. 500's fall.
The bond market rallied as some investors fled the stock market and others bet that slowing economic growth will push interest rates lower. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 5.02 percent from 5.08 percent Thursday, as the price, which moves in the opposite direction, rose 16/32 to 9928/32 . The yield on the 30-year bond fell to 5.38 percent from 5.46 percent on Thursday.
Negative news was plentiful yesterday. Motorola, the second-largest maker of celluar phones, said it would cut 4,000 jobs, or 3 percent of its worldwide work force. Its stock fell 92 cents, to $18.90. Lucent Technologies, the troubled phone equipment manufacturer, said that its accounting practices were being investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Its stock dropped $1.53, to $15.36.
Several stock analysts predicted that Dell Computer would soon announce job cuts, which would be the first major job reductions in that company's history. Its stock fell $2.56, to $23.50. And outside the technology sector, Cigna, the health insurer, reported that its fourth-quarter profit fell 3.7 percent and that its earnings for this year would fall below expectations. Its stock dropped $10.14, to $110.75.
If the stock market continues to swoon, Federal Reserve policy makers may consider another rate cut before their next scheduled meeting on March 20. A sharp decline in stock prices could undermine consumer confidence, and consumers have been the driving force behind the decade-long economic expansion. Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said recently that a break in consumer confidence would probably push the economy into a recession.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BOND MARKETS (85%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (94%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (66%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (53%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (94%); BAC (NYSE) (53%); BAC (LSE) (53%); 8648 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2001 



250 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
 Motorola Plans to Eliminate 4,000 Chip-Making Jobs
Motorola said it would eliminate 4,000 semiconductor jobs, or about 3 percent of its work force, because of slowing demand for its products. Motorola recently laid off 2,500 employees.
 After faltering badly in 1997 and 1998, the company's profits and share price rebounded strongly in 1999 and the early part of 2000 under the leadership of Christopher B. Galvin, the chief executive. Now, after an executive shake-up, Mr. Galvin is trying to reignite Motorola. Page B2. 

Division Over Bush Tax-Cut Plan
Economists are deeply divided over whether President Bush's tax-cut plan would hurt the economy over the long run or make it stronger and more efficient. But on one point, the debate dies away, ideological differences are put aside and there is wide agreement: Whatever the tax cut's final form, it is bound to come too late to work as a stimulus to overcome the current slowdown. News Analysis. A9.

VoiceStream Changes Confirmed
Deutsche Telekom confirmed yesterday that it had added a clause to the terms of its acquisition of VoiceStream Wireless that would delay the completion of the deal until the last day of May or in early June and pay its new shareholders a special stock dividend. The new dividend effectively raises the price Deutsche Telekom will pay for VoiceStream. B2.

Japan Symbolically Cuts a Rate
The Bank of Japan announced an interest rate reduction that was almost purely symbolic, while leaving most other aspects of its monetary policy unchanged. The country's discount rate was reduced to 0.35 percent from 0.5 percent. The more significant overnight call rate was left at 0.25 percent. B2.

Executives Speak Out on U.S. Trade
Business executives urged the federal government to step up its efforts to negotiate new trade agreements, warning it risks losing 50 years of trade leadership to countries with more ambitious agendas. "Time is running out for the United States to get back into the game," the Business Roundtable said. B3.

Shares of Cigna Tumble on Forecast
Shares of Cigna tumbled $10.14, or 8 percent, to $110.75 on the New York Stock Exchange, after officials said that the economic slowdown would probably cause results to fall short of expectations this year. The company also reported fourth-quarter net income of $277 million, or $1.76 a share, compared with $292 million, or $1.63 a share, in the period a year earlier. Its operating profit fell 3.7 percent, to $285 million, or $1.81 a share, but beat expectations of $1.76 a share. B2.

11% Decline in Electrolux Earnings
Electrolux reported an 11 percent decline in fourth-quarter profit, before special charges. The Swedish appliance maker said a revamping program that includes 2,000 job cuts this year would lift profits, despite slowing demand in the United States. B2.

Cooper Tire Plans Plant Cutbacks
Cooper Tire and Rubber said that it would close or reduce production at 22 plants and cut 1,000 jobs as part of a reorganization announced in October. It reported fourth-quarter profit fell to $6 million from $32 million a year earlier. Cooper also said its first-quarter results would drop because of weakening car and truck production. B3.

NTT DoCoMo May Raise KPN Stake
Royal KPN, the Dutch phone carrier, said NTT DoCoMo of Japan might raise its stake in KPN's mobile phone business, but added that KPN still planned to press ahead with an initial public offering of stock in its cell phone unit. B2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart tracks Cigna's progress since Jan. 1999. Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,781.45 down 99.10Nasdaq composite -- 2,470.97 down 91.0910-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.02% down 0.06The euro -- $0.9258 up 0.0078The dollar -- 117.67 up 1.05

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); DIVIDENDS (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (62%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (62%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (90%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (55%); BANK OF JAPAN (54%); CIGNA CORP (52%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (90%); DTE (FRA) (55%); DTE (BIT) (55%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%); CI (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (52%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2001 



251 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1646 words

HEADLINE: A Ferry Loop Plan To Connect the Dots For New York Bay 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW JACOBS 

 BODY:
From Boston to Seattle to San Diego, maritime cities across the country have embraced ferries as an inexpensive and people-pleasing way to ease congestion, spur waterfront revitalization and stitch together far-flung communities snubbed by other forms of mass transit. 
 Now a coalition of ferry advocates in New York and New Jersey has quietly put together a proposal for an ambitious, 25-stop ferry loop for Upper New York Bay, one that would link Manhattan, Staten Island, Brooklyn and New Jersey with a fleet of 99-passenger vessels. 
 In the proposal it will make public next week, the Metropolitan Waterfront Alliance, a year-old civic and planning organization set up to promote waterfront recreation and economic development projects, maps out a ferry loop crisscrossing New York Harbor. The plan seeks to revive the glory days of trans-harbor travel, when 112 steamer and ferry routes traversed the upper and lower bay, linking towns and cities from Coney Island to the Jersey Shore. 
The plan depends on a private operator's willingness to run it, and almost certainly on some public subsidy to start and perhaps to maintain it. Neither is assured, and there is no guarantee the plan will ever come to fruition. But similar operations have sprouted around the country in recent years. And in a region where it can take two hours to reach Jersey City from Red Hook, Brooklyn -- places separated by just three miles of water -- the plan offers the hope of saving travel time, increasing cross-harbor commerce, and opening job opportunities for people across the region. Beyond that, its promoters have a loftier goal: to inspire local officials to think of their shared waterway as a freeway that unites communities, not a watery void that sets them apart.
"In looking around the harbor, we saw this extraordinary collection of parks, cultural institutions and commercial nodes virtually unreachable from one another," said Carter Craft, project director of the alliance. "We have a free highway right on our doorstep but until now, it's been largely abandoned."
The group envisions a privately run system of eight boats that would make 25 stops around Upper New York Bay. Launching every 20 minutes on weekdays and using Battery Park and the World Financial Center as end points, the $18.5 million service would move clockwise and counterclockwise around the harbor and connect mid-route with the Staten Island Ferry, which would serve as an express run to Lower Manhattan. The average ride between stops would be about seven minutes. The one-way fare would be $3.
Supporters of the idea, including the National Park Service, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and Howard Golden, the Brooklyn borough president, say a comprehensive ferry system would help to revitalize vacant waterfront property, reduce the dependency on private cars and lure tourists to attractions that are, for now, largely inaccessible by public transportation.
Private ferry operators said they welcomed the idea but expressed caution, saying public subsidies might be required to sustain the loop in its early years. "It's very forward thinking and perhaps a bit rosy in its projections but then again transportation professionals thought we were crazy when we started up 15 years ago," said Arthur Imperatore Jr., president of New York Waterway, whose nine Hudson and East River routes now carry 32,000 passengers a day, up from 18,000 five years ago.
And recent history gives reason for both optimism and concern. While two dozen ferry routes have begun since 1986, low ridership has forced operators to discontinue more than half of them, including a Queens-to-Midtown Manhattan link that New York Waterway plans to abandon next month and the Delta Air Lines LaGuardia Airport water taxi, which made its last run in December.
Despite obstacles that include a historically tempestuous relationship between New York and New Jersey, the plan's boosters say there is an untapped market for nautical transit. According to their projections, the system, which would cost $5 million a year to operate, could be up and running in a year. Local transportation agencies, they said, could use loans from the federal Department of Transportation to buy boats, which would then be leased to private operators. Many of the 15 landings that do not yet exist would be created with floating barges, at a cost of $5 million.
"This is not like building a Second Avenue subway," Mr. Craft said.
Ultimately, he and others say, the service could carry as many as 12,000 passengers a day. Ideally, they said, ferry travel would become part of a regional fare-collection system, similar to E-ZPass, that would allow easy transfers among boats, buses, trains and subways.
The harbor loop seeks to capitalize on the growing popularity of ferries in both New York and in coastal cities around the world. In addition to the Staten Island Ferry, which transports 63,000 people a day, five private ferry operators carry passengers in the metropolitan area. In 1985, there were none.
Ferries have also made a comeback in Boston, which now has 10 commuter routes supported by $5 million in subsidies, and San Francisco, which has 7 lines and plans for 35 more, part of a proposed system that would be run by a newly established Bay Area Water Transit Authority. With 27 routes and 25 million passengers a year, Washington State's publicly run ferry service is the largest in the nation.
In 1910, before bridges and tunnels knit together the region's patchwork of islands and peninsulas, New York harbor buzzed with ferries and steamers. But with traffic clotted and the prospect of new bridge and tunnel construction unlikely, many transportation planners see ferries as part of a solution to the region's congestion woes.
"They're the only form of urban transportation that has actually gotten faster in the last generation," said Alan Olmsted, director of private ferry service for the New York City Transportation Department. New watercraft, he said, can travel at 52 miles an hour, more than twice as fast as the older class of vessels.
Except for the Staten Island Ferry, a free ride that costs the city $100 million a year, none of the harbor's ferry operators receive public subsidies, although the Transportation Department has been spending millions of dollars to upgrade private ferry landings. Mr. Olmsted reacted positively to the loop idea but he said he had not seen the proposal and could not comment on its feasibility.
Citing the proliferation of waterfront construction in both states, urban planners and real-estate executives agree that alternatives to roads are needed. "We have 11,000 new apartments and 10.8 million square feet of office space coming to Hudson County waterfront," said Ciorsdan Conran, executive director of the Hudson River Property Owners and Conservators Association. "Are all those people going to jump into their car? It would be wonderful if they could leave their cars and hop on a ferry."
But more than just a pressure valve for congestion, some see ferry service as a way to jump-start development in places that have been shunned by investors, largely because they lack public transportation. Regional planning experts estimate that 700 acres of waterfront await redevelopment, including much of Governors Island, Staten Island's Homeport and Military Ocean Terminal, a 327-acre pier in Bayonne that is the region's largest chunk of fallow waterfront. All three sites would be served by the harbor loop.
Though it is hardly more than a stone's throw from Wall Street, the once-booming piers along Red Hook in Brooklyn remain a desolate landscape. Teresa Williams, executive director of Southwest Brooklyn Industrial Development Corporation, said two proposed ferry landings in the neighborhood might help draw companies and employees now repelled by the idea of working in place so removed from the rest of the city. "It now takes longer to get from Manhattan to Red Hook than it does to get to Philadelphia," said Ms. Williams, whose group has already lured 1,100 companies and 23,000 workers to the piers and warehouses of southwest Brooklyn, most of them in Sunset Park, a neighborhood served by bus, subway and a 10-minute ferry ride to Lower Manhattan.
With seven stops in Brooklyn, the loop would also knit together waterfront neighborhoods that are now disconnected from one another. A number of parks and recreation areas around the harbor also stand to benefit from the service, which would feature a so-called cultural loop on weekends. The 15 stops include a new golf course in Bayonne, Sailors Snug Harbor cultural center on Staten Island and Brooklyn Bridge Park.
The National Park Service, which manages a half-dozen local waterfront sites, is supporting the plan as a way to entice more visitors to its more isolated parks and monuments.
Private ferry operators and transportation consultants, however, warn that without subsidies, fares would exceed $3 and reduce the appeal to middle-class commuters. At worst, they say, the failure to obtain government support would doom the project.
John Koenig, president of New York Fast Ferry, which runs high-speed catamarans between Manhattan and Monmouth County, N.J., said most other cities either operated their own ferry service or provided sizable subsidies. "It's tough to compete with buses and trains, which receive billions in subsidies," he said.
Kent Barwick, president of the Municipal Art Society, which provided office space for the Metropolitan Waterfront Alliance, likened the bay to Times Square, a crossroads. "The harbor is the crossroads of our entire region," he said. "This vast metropolis was born from the water but then we turned our backs and became estranged from it," he said. "This is a chance to embrace the water. It's an enormous opportunity, but one that might not be around for very long."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Private ferries like New York Waterway, boarding passengers yesterday on the Hudson, have prospered. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. B4) Map of Upper New York Bay highlighting the Proposed Loop Ferry System. (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (88%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (78%); CRUISES (75%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); PORT AUTHORITIES (74%); NATIONAL PARKS (74%); CITIES (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (52%) FERRIES 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN WATERFRONT ALLIANCE 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (60%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (60%)

PERSON: JACOBS, ANDREW; CRAFT, CARTER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK HARBOR; NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2001 



252 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: AMERICAS; 
CANADA'S UNEMPLOYMENT RATE IS UP

BYLINE:  By Timothy Pritchard 

 BODY:
 Canada's unemployment rate rose slightly, to 6.9 percent, in January, from 6.8 percent in December, but economists were surprised by the small increase in the number of new jobs and the sharp drop in full-time work. Marc Levesque, senior economist at the TD Bank Financial Group in Toronto, said the latest report contains "ominous signs that the economic slowdown that is under way in the United States is starting to make its way across the border." 
Almost 20,000 full-time jobs were eliminated last month, half of them in manufacturing. Only a marginally bigger increase in part-time employment produced a net gain of 700 jobs, ending a string of increases averaging 38,000 new jobs a month since August. Timothy Pritchard (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (87%); LAYOFFS (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: TD BANK FINANCIAL GROUP (72%)

TICKER: TD (TSX) (72%); TD (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%)

PERSON: PRITCHARD, TIMOTHY 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (74%) ONTARIO, CANADA (74%) CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2001 



253 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

Powell Sets Mideast Trip; Seeks a Regional Approach
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell plans to travel this month to Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Kuwait, as well as Israel and the Palestinian territories, in another sign of the Bush administration's broad regional approach to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. General Powell said he would consult with the newly elected Israeli prime minister, Ariel Sharon; the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat; and other leaders in the region. A1

Mr. Sharon offered the post of defense minister to Ehud Barak, who had announced his retirement from politics, Israeli radio and television said. Mr. Sharon invited another former prime minister, Shimon Peres, to be foreign minister, officials said. A8

Anger at Rape Broadcast
Israeli state television this week showed a video of a rape that was taped by the rapist himself, generating outrage from women's groups. A8

Progress in Colombia Talks
President Andres Pastrana and Manuel Marulanda, the leader of the largest rebel group, announced a broad agreement designed to restart the stalled peace negotiations. A3

Russian Defector Identified
A Russian diplomat at the United Nations who defected to the United States in October was really an intelligence officer, Sergei Tretyakov, American officials said. A3

Call for South African Unity
President Thabo Mbeki urged South Africans to embrace racial reconciliation. Moving to allay the fears of whites and investors in his state of the nation speech, Mr. Mbeki urged broad cooperation to reinvigorate the economy and reduce inequality. A4

Planning a Caspian Oil Pipeline
Chevron said it would take part in the engineering and construction phases of the proposed Baku-Ceyhan pipeline to carry Caspian Sea oil to Western markets via Turkey. A5

World Briefing A8

NATIONAL A10-12, 16

U.S. Sues to Halt Genetic Tests of Workers
The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission filed its first court action challenging genetic testing by an employer. The suit seeks to end a Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railroad policy requiring union members who claim work-related carpal tunnel syndrome to give blood for a DNA test for a condition that may predict some forms of the syndrome. A10

Effort Behind Rich Pardon
Lawyers and advisers to the financier Marc Rich joined his former wife, Denise Rich, in arranging a complex legal and political campaign to win a last-minute pardon from President Clinton, whose own legal advisers opposed it, according to documents and interviews. A11

U.S. Sub Hits Fishing Boat
The Greeneville collided with and sank a Japanese vessel as the sub surfaced near Pearl Harbor, the Navy said. The fishing boat carried 35 people, including students, and nine were unaccounted for as the search continued off Honolulu, officials said. A16

EDUCATION

Differing Views on Head Start
A cadre of developmental psychologists and educators, including members of the Head Start establishment, disagree with President Bush's support for broadening the scope of Head Start beyond the provision of care, meals, play and limited learning. They say it may actually work to the disadvantage of poor children the program is intended to help. A1

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Progress on Deadly Infection
Researchers reported strong results for the first drug to reduce the death rate from severe sepsis, which is usually caused by infection and kills 225,000 Americans a year. If approved, the genetically engineered version of a substance from human cells, called activated protein C, will be sold under the name Zovant. A11

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Plan to Create Ferry Loop In Upper New York Bay
A coalition of ferry advocates in New York and New Jersey has put together an ambitious proposal for a 25-stop ferry loop linking Manhattan, Staten Island, Brooklyn and New Jersey with a fleet of 99-passenger vessels. A1

Torricelli Campaign Inquiry
Lawyers and others said federal investigators had evidence that the chief fund-raiser for Senator Robert G. Torricelli, Adam C. Crain, had solicited illegal campaign donations from two fugitive businessmen. B1

Roosevelt Auction Proceeding
A collection of Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt memorabilia will be sold at Christie's next week, despite pleas from Park Service officials, historians and some family members. B1

Welfare Clock Winding Down
Nearly a third of the poorest families in New York State, about 71,400, are at risk of losing federal welfare benefits at the end of the year, when a new time limit for receiving public assistance takes effect. Their cash benefits are supposed to be replaced by a system of state and local aid. B1

Beliefs B6

Neediest Cases B1

ARTS & IDEAS B7-18

OBITUARIES A13

SPORTS D1-8

Jeter and Yanks Reach Deal
The Yankees and their star shortstop, Derek Jeter, agreed on a 10-year $189 million contract that is second only to Alex Rodriguez's $252 million deal with the Texas Rangers. D1

First Round in Davis Cup
The United States and Switzerland were tied, 1-1, after matches in Basel, in Patrick McEnroe's debut as captain of the American team. D7

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Stocks Lose Year's Gains
The Nasdaq fell 3.6 percent, and is now ahead just 0.02 percent for the year. Two and a half weeks ago, it was roaring along with a 15.7 percent gain. Smaller declines for the day left the Dow and S.& P. 500 showing slight losses for the year. C1

Lucent Investigation
At least one former Lucent executive was said to have been subpoenaed in an S.E.C. inquiry into accounting practices at the troubled technology company, which recently reduced its revenue by hundreds of millions. C1

Tax Scrutiny of Small Business
The I.R.S. plans to announce next week that it is actively pursuing small-business owners who are bragging on the Internet and in seminars that they do not withhold Social Security, Medicare and income taxes from their employees' paychecks. C1

Effort to Acquire Loews
An investor group that holds much of the debt of Loews Cineplex Entertainment was said to be negotiating to acquire the cinema company after it makes a bankruptcy filing. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Mr. Hagel's reform ruse; starting fresh in the Middle East; a referendum for term limits.

Columns: Anthony Lewis.

Bridge B17
TV Listings B18
Crossword B16
Weather A16
Public Lives A10

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MARINE VESSELS (86%); GENETIC SCREENING (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (74%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (74%); SEX OFFENSES (74%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (69%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (69%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (69%); DNA (67%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (67%); PSYCHOLOGY (66%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); DNA TESTING (62%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (61%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (61%); ENGINEERING (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (52%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (52%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); EHUD BARAK (57%); SHIMON PERES (57%); THABO MBEKI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%) CASPIAN SEA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) ISRAEL (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EGYPT (92%); JORDAN (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2001 



254 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: Divided Over Public Spending and Private Savings 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
The nation's economists are deeply divided over whether President Bush's tax-cut plan would hurt the economy over the long run or make it stronger and more efficient.
 Strip away the politics, the slowing economy, the argument over whether the rich will get too much, and the Bush plan rests on two propositions. One is that people will work harder, with greater dedication and efficiency, if they pay less in taxes. The other is that the country will run better if the government spends less. 
 Those are the beliefs put forth by many conservative economists who supported the tax cuts proposed by President Ronald Reagan 20 years ago and now favor President Bush's plan to cut taxes by $1.6 trillion over 10 years. It is a view that liberal economists attack as steeped in misconceptions. 
"The debate reflects very different priorities and very different conceptions of the way people behave," said Joel Slemrod, an economist and tax expert at the University of Michigan.
Those who favor the Bush plan say that people would work harder if they were paying income taxes at a top rate of 33 percent in the proposal, rather than the nearly 40 percent that now prevails. And leaving the budget surplus in government hands rather than returning it to the citizenry through tax cuts, they say, encourages all sorts of wasteful spending.
"If you are offered an extra dollar of pay, and told that you are going to get to keep 70 cents of it instead of 60 cents, you are more likely to work harder to earn that raise," said John Makin, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research center in Washington. 
Mr. Makin's assertion is a basic tenet of supply-side economics, one often challenged by liberal economists like William Dickens, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.
"Most people don't get to choose how many hours they work," Mr. Dickens said. "If they have a job, they work a certain number of hours as well as they can."
For those who oppose the Bush tax cut, the projected $5.6 trillion budget surplus over the next decade is needed to meet important social and economic goals. The money would help to build Social Security funds to pay for the coming retirement of aging baby boomers, would finance long-neglected social programs and would support corporate investment indirectly.
Corporations would benefit, according to this point of view, if some of the surplus was used to pay down government debt. The people who held the debt, in the form of treasury securities, would then shift their repaid savings to corporate bonds and stocks. Companies, in turn, would invest this extra money in new equipment, in new technology, in skilled workers -- the building blocks, in sum, of a more productive, robust economy.
"You have to ask yourself, Would I rather have $100 billion spent to subsidize child care or to pay for new television sets and vacations in the Bahamas, and people value these things differently," said Robert M. Solow, a Nobel laureate in economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "I am a knee-jerk liberal, so I prefer subsidizing child care. But I also value, even before such public spending, the building up of private savings through the repayment of the government's debt."
Conservative economists see a very different dynamic. For them, entrepreneurs who are allowed to keep more of each dollar they earn become willing to invest their money in riskier ventures. The economy, as a result, grows more rapidly, and at some point, the growth is fast enough to generate rising tax revenues, even though tax rates have been cut.
In this supply-side view, the stimulus to human activity from a tax cut outweighs the payoff that would accrue to society from the government's having spent the money on child care, health insurance, mass transit and other public services. For conservatives, public spending is justifiable only for services the private sector cannot provide, like the military.
"Public spending has to prove itself to be worth not only the dollars involved but also the human waste -- the disincentive -- involved in maintaining higher tax rates," said Martin Feldstein, a Harvard economist who was President Reagan's chief economic adviser in the early 1980's.
That is too narrow a view, the liberals say. "The only way we are going to ameliorate pressing social needs is through public intervention," said George Akerlof, an economist at the University of California.
The Reagan tax cut did coincide with a significant upturn in the economy in the early 1980's. But economists have never been able to sort out whether that was a result of the tax cut, Federal Reserve policy, the rapid rise in military spending, or all of the above and a few other factors as well. 
The Reagan tax cut was also much sharper than the cut President Bush proposes. The top income tax rate in the Reagan era went to 50 percent from 70 percent and finally to 28 percent in 1986. Tax cuts that large are more likely to encourage people to work harder and entrepreneurs to take more risks than Mr. Bush's relatively modest reductions. 
"You would expect the reaction to be smaller now," Mr. Slemrod said.
Many liberal economists go further. They expect the Bush plan to have no impact at all on work incentives and entrepreneurial activity. Not only is the Bush cut too small, they say, but it is also phased in over too many years. In addition, one-third of the work force earns too little now to pay any income tax.
Moreover, they argue, contrary to the supply-side view of human behavior, there was plenty of risky entrepreneurial activity after the Clinton administration raised the top income tax rate -- to 39.6 percent in 1993 from 31 percent in 1990. Dot-com ventures -- at least for a while -- blossomed everywhere.
"People invested on a gamble and got rich beyond anything they expected," Mr. Akerlof said. "They hardly contemplated the tax rate on the last $100 million." 
Those who endorse the Bush tax plan do not see any need to maintain a large federal budget surplus. Global capital markets are now large enough for American companies to tap them to finance capital spending, Mr. Makin says, adding that companies do not have to rely on a growing supply of private savings at home, as Mr. Solow says. 
The global capital market is indeed large enough, Mr. Solow acknowledged. "But in one case you pay interest to foreigners and in the other to your own citizens," he said, "and if there is a flight from the dollar, then global capital is more likely to flee from the United States."
But on one point, the debate dies away, ideological differences are put aside and there is wide agreement: Whatever the tax cut's final form, it is bound to come too late to work as a stimulus to overcome the current slowdown.
Even conservative economists fault the president for trying to sell his proposal as an antirecession stimulus. By that logic, they say, the tax cut should be reversed once the economy booms again.
"The president has increasingly made his case for a tax cut as a way of avoiding a recession," said William Niskanen, an economist who heads the free-market Cato Institute in Washington. "I think that is a major mistake." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); INCOME TAX (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); AGING TRENDS (71%); CORPORATE BONDS (67%); BABY BOOMERS (65%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%) TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%) UCHITELLE, LOUIS; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2001 



255 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Through the Voters' Eyes, Senator Clinton's Missteps 

BYLINE:  By JANE GROSS 

 BODY:
There is some gentle needling going on in the Harrison household in Amsterdam, N.Y., these days as a couple who canceled each other out in the voting booth last November watch with dismay the untidy start of Hillary Rodham Clinton's career in the United States Senate. 
 "This is just what I was saying to Bob regarding the Clintons all along," said Cathy Harrison, a nurse and mother of two who had cast her vote for Representative Rick A. Lazio while her husband, a social studies teacher, chose the first lady. 
 "There is not one inch of honesty between them. I value a candidate, any candidate, whether Democrat or Republican, if they have morals. So, yes, I've been telling him 'na-na-na-na-na, I told you so.' " 
Mr. Harrison takes the ribbing in stride, agreeing, up to a point, with his wife's view of the Clintons' latest stumbles: the 11th-hour presidential pardons of Mrs. Clinton's supporters, the flurry of gifts to help furnish the couple's two houses, her $8 million book advance, his huge new office. 
"It doesn't sit too well with me," Mr. Harrison said. "This isn't a good start. But I still want to see what she does in office. She's cost herself points coming in. So now she better start producing. Let's see how she handles the upstate economy and education. I can be critical of her as a person and still think she's effective. But I need to see what she does."
The Harrisons are two of 11 undecided voters who began sharing their thoughts on the Senate race with The New York Times in December 1999. Two withdrew from the project early on. Of the remaining nine, three wound up voting for Mr. Lazio and six for Mrs. Clinton. 
Mrs. Clinton's supporters included three who remained undecided until Election Day, weighing to the very last minute their misgivings about her character versus her position on the issues, her dogged campaign and her potential to fill the shoes of Daniel Patrick Moynihan. 
Of those three, Mr. Harrison is disappointed but waiting for a legislative record to unfold, and Tom Smith of Saugerties, N.Y., a customer service manager at Wal-Mart, is unfazed. "I consider it all nonsense," he said. "It has no effect on me or my family directly, so what's the sense of getting mad?" 
But Doug Taggart, a Wall Street executive who lives in Cortlandt Manor in Westchester County, is questioning the wisdom of his decision to vote for Mrs. Clinton. He never planned to support Mr. Lazio, but seriously considered withholding his vote out of queasiness that Mrs. Clinton might abuse it. "Sitting it out would have been a better bet," he said. "Intuitively I knew this would happen."
Mr. Taggart noted that it was too early to handicap Mrs. Clinton's performance as a senator, since her two official acts so far have been voting against John Ashcroft for attorney general and reciting Edgar Allan Poe's "The Raven" to settle a Super Bowl bet. But absent a legislative record, he said, "anything that happens reflects even worse because there's nothing to balance it out." 
The underlying themes are depressingly familiar, Mr. Taggart said. "She has in the past made great public hay of 'We have enemies; they're trying to bring us down,' " he said. "But she so easily plays into her enemy's hands. I can't get over the lack of sensitivity, the inability to learn any lessons whatsoever, the cavalier disregard of right and wrong, the whole sense of the Clintons being above the law and not held to the same standards as other people." 
Tom Beck, a high school guidance counselor on Long Island and an early Lazio supporter, also saw new proof of the Clintons' flaws. "It always comes back to money with them," he said. "It's like a trailer-trash type thing. Then they rationalize what they do with damage control later on -- or by blaming it on the right-wing conspiracy. It fits with their whole moral fiber. There's a hollowness to them." 
Mr. Taggart and Mr. Beck were not alone is their condemnation. But others were more willing to compartmentalize, to separate the Clintons' personal failings and political skills. 
Dave Temkin, a telecommunications expert from Queens who voted for Mrs. Clinton, gleefully recited all the latest jokes from late-night television, and added a few of his own ("They had to take Air Force One because a regular airline would not have allowed them enough carry-on baggage."). 
But, he said, "there are times and places where we put up with miserable people who are good at what they do," making comparison to a surgeon who has a sterling track record but a miserable bedside manner.
Karl Schwartz, a computer consultant from Staten Island and a Lazio supporter, made a similar distinction. "Her ethical positions are questionable," he said. "But I'm not surprised, indignant or morally aghast. I think most of us are jaded about how politicians behave on a personal level. And in the big scheme of things, what matters is how effective she is at getting issues across."
Mr. Schwartz, and others, see the pardons and gifts as yet another compelling argument for campaign finance reform. "The system limits the kind of people you get," he said. "If there was a larger pool -- not just people who can play the game and raise the money -- we'd probably have better choices."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Amsterdam, N.Y., Cathy Harrison, a Lazio supporter, has been needling her husband, Bob, about his decision to vote for Mrs. Clinton. (Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (66%) ELECTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); CONGRESS (US) 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); RICK PERRY (75%) GROSS, JANE; HARRISON, CATHY; HARRISON, BOB; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM (SEN); LAZIO, RICK A 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK STATE; AMSTERDAM (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2001 



256 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: 80 Percent Nudity 

BYLINE:  By M. G. Lord; M. G. Lord is the author of "Forever Barbie: The Unauthorized Biography of a Real Doll." She is working on a cultural history of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory.

 BODY:
 The Funeral Party
By Ludmila Ulitskaya.
Translated by Cathy Porter.
Translation edited by Arch Tait.
154 pp. New York:
Schocken Books. $18.95.
 ALTHOUGH four of them have removed their clothes, the five women in the opening pages of Ludmila Ulitskaya's mordantly observed yet touching novel "The Funeral Party" have not gathered for an erotic romp. They are, however, on an errand of love: attending the deathbed of Alik, a failed painter, accomplished philanderer and aggressively unassimilated Russian emigre, in whose sweltering Manhattan loft the air-conditioner has broken.
This is a strangely mixed group. Irina, Alik's former lover and a one-time circus acrobat, has worked her way through law school in "feathers and sequins," twirling her legs in a "special club frequented by rich idiots." Nina, Alik's wife and the daughter of a once powerful K.G.B. agent, is a religious fanatic and a drunk; although her Christianity remains steadfastly Russian Orthodox, she now boozes the "American way," imbibing drinks that are "weak, sweet and ceaseless." Gioia, Alik's Italian neighbor, reads Dante to him in her "glass-clinking language," unaware that he speaks it as well as she does. And Valentina, Alik's current squeeze, weeps at his withered body, climbing into bed to cradle it between her "celebrated breasts." The fifth woman, Maika, stands apart from the others. Not only is she fully dressed and only 15, she is Irina's daughter -- which, given the time frame in which Irina was involved with Alik, makes her very likely Alik's daughter as well.
"The Funeral Party" runs a mere 154 pages, but it is far from slight, presenting a deft, economical portrait of an engaging set of characters whose behavior, though occasionally screwball, is never one-dimensional. For Ulitskaya's book is also a meditation on Russian identity and the degree to which that identity can be sustained. If there is a single, defining force in Alik's dwindling life, it is his sense of being Russian: away from his homeland, he has "built his Russia around him, a Russia which hadn't existed for a long time and perhaps never had."
Significantly, Ulitskaya, a Moscow geneticist who lost her scientific credentials in the 1970's as a punishment for translating a banned novel, sets Alik's story in the summer of 1991, against a backdrop of the televised putsch that ejected President Mikhail Gorbachev. emigres, she observes, search constantly for evidence to vindicate their decision to leave, and as Alik and his friends view the "ugly mugs" on CNN, they find it. The faces on screen have "corruption written all over them, like ill-fitting false teeth." Yet these newly minted Americans cannot banish their Russianness, which haunts them like "some chemical reaction in the blood, something nauseating, bitter and terrible."
It's hard to resist contrasting "The Funeral Party" with Tolstoy's novella "The Death of Ivan Ilyich." In fact, Ulitskaya seems to have set up deliberate parallels with that well-known work in order to make points about how the Soviet experience changed Russian life. Where Ivan, for example, spends months disconnecting from the world in what Elisabeth Kbler-Ross would call the "isolation" phase of dying, Alik hardly withdraws at all. Nor will his departure free up a coveted spot at the top of the bureaucratic heap. In highly stratified 19th-century Russia, Ivan's business associates mostly view his death as an opportunity for advancement. Alik's emigre world, by contrast, is a nonhierarchical mess. No one hankers to fill his place. And unlike Ivan's wife, Nina does not fear a penniless widowhood; she is already destitute.
But when it comes to the inadequacy of medicine, Tolstoy and Ulitskaya tell similar stories: neither Ivan's nor Alik's doctors can discern what is killing their patients. This reflects especially poorly on Alik's would-be healers, who have more than a century of breakthroughs to draw upon. Their bungling provides Ulitskaya with a pretext to comment on the arbitrary nature of medical licensing, since Fima, the doctor most attentive to Alik, is not technically allowed to ply his craft. Good at caring for his patients, bad at tests, he, like many emigres, has been denied certification in his adopted country.
At first, Cathy Porter's translation of "The Funeral Party" struck me as stilted, but I soon got used to the awkwardness and came to view it as part of the story. All emigres, Ulitskaya explains, must weather a severe "rupture" from their native tongue. As a survival strategy, her characters affect a "deliberately comical jargon, part-English, part-Russian, part-Yiddish," that embraces "the most exotic criminal slang." This hybrid speech is well suited to Ulitskaya's descriptions, which are often verbal translations of visual caricature. When, for example, a doctor grasps Alik's wasted wrist, it appears to have "drowned in his large hand like a pencil." Likewise, the televised coup seems less suited to CNN than to the Cartoon Network, as the camera cuts from "a twitching marionette" to "a mustached man with a face like a dog" and then to the tanks.
In her first book to be published in English, Ulitskaya (who lives in Moscow but travels often to the United States) does not self-censor to suit American standards of political correctness. Indeed, her harsh wit spares no one. At the beginning of the book, she introduces a female emigre who lives to buy and taste every conceivable consumer good. This setup pays off at Alik's wake, when the advances of an attractive black saxophonist throw her into a quandary: "Like most Russian emigres, she was a racist, yet the man before her was one undoubtedly American product she hadn't yet tried."
Because of its mercilessness, "The Funeral Party" reminded me of the early novels of Evelyn Waugh, particularly "A Handful of Dust," in which the death of the main character's son is portrayed in a fashion that is both broadly caricatured and immensely poignant. To be sure, Waugh and Ulitskaya chronicle wildly different subcultures, but once you get past the superficial details -- having characters drunk all the time on whiskey rather than vodka -- the two writers' accomplishments are remarkably similar.
In less acerbic hands, "The Funeral Party" might have been a dull snapshot of a refugee community. As presented by Ulitskaya, it is riotously funny -- a quirky, tender story whose themes of love, loss and identity soar over the boundaries of language and geography. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); LITERATURE (78%); RELIGION (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (67%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: SCHOCKEN BOOKS (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (58%)

PERSON: LORD, M G; ULITSKAYA, LUDMILA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%)

TITLE: FUNERAL PARTY, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



257 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Women's Work 

BYLINE:  By Paul Starr; Paul Starr is a professor of sociology at Princeton University and a co-editor of The American Prospect.

 BODY:
 THE PRICE OF MOTHERHOOD
Why the Most Important Job in the World Is Still the Least Valued.
By Ann Crittenden.
323 pp. New York:
Metropolitan Books/
Henry Holt & Company. $25.
 In the language of American politics, "motherhood" is synonymous with bland causes that no politician can publicly oppose. Yet, properly understood, motherhood is no motherhood issue. As Ann Crittenden argues in her powerful and important new book, the choice to become a mother in America today imposes enormous costs on most women, including lower incomes and higher risks of poverty than men or childless women face. And the remedies, far from being bland matters of consensus, raise some of the most difficult and divisive questions about work, family life, law and social policy.
The failure of our institutions to make systematic provision for bearing and raising children means that not only do women's incomes fall just when their family's costs increase; the interruptions to their careers also reduce their lifetime earnings and savings. Even more than sex discrimination, this "mommy tax," as Crittenden calls it, exposes women to higher risks of poverty in old age or in the event of divorce.
Those risks are aggravated by the built-in bias of law and policy toward paid employment. Unpaid work in the home does not count toward Social Security pensions, nor does it qualify for disability or survivor benefits. In a marriage, whoever earns the paycheck has the right to it. Astonishingly, now that alimony has nearly disappeared, a woman who faces divorce after raising children rarely gets consideration in the settlement for the loss to her earning capacity.
While documenting these and other penalties for maternal virtue, "The Price of Motherhood" is not a dreary or predictable book. Written with a fine passion and at times a biting wit, it challenges the received ideas of economists, feminists and conservatives alike and ought to be read by all of them. An accomplished economic journalist and a former reporter for The New York Times, Crittenden has worked for five years on the book, conducting interviews, attending conferences and court proceedings and synthesizing research in economics, law, history and sociology. The result is a work that is as informative and engaging in its details as it is compelling in its overall argument.
Despite all the customary praise of mothers, the devaluation of their work is deeply entrenched in our thought and institutions. It's not just a matter of casual remarks implying that women who stay home with the kids aren't working. When our official economic statistics add up the goods and services in the economy, they leave out the unpaid services performed inside the household. Mothers at home are, by definition, unproductive, even though by educating and socializing their children, they contribute to the human capital that is critical to economic growth. And because their work isn't quantified, they disappear from pictures of the economy that are drawn with the data.
As frustrating as such ideological blind spots may be to Crittenden, they're not the reason she wrote the book. At the root of "The Price of Motherhood" is a personal experience produced by the great historical collision of the past 35 years between change in women's lives and unchanging institutions. Crittenden says the stimulus for her work came from the loss of status and identity she felt when she interrupted her career to have a child. This pattern has scarcely been unusual among women in her generation. Unlike their mothers, who typically had children first and took paid jobs later if at all, women who came of age in the 1960's and afterward have generally established their careers first and then had babies. This sequence raises the perceived "mommy tax," and it highlights the failure of employers and government to accommodate the demands of child-rearing. Compared with the European societies that offer paid maternity leave of up to a year (with benefits based on prior earnings) as well as child benefits (cash payments per child not contingent on poverty), America has not done much to spread the costs of motherhood. Nor have we made systematic provision for part-time work and career paths that allow taking time out for motherhood.
No major group any longer seriously contests the right of women to pursue higher education and careers. Many argue, however, that if women then decide to have children, they do so voluntarily, and if they have to give something up, that is their own choice. But raising children is not just another form of personal satisfaction; the flourishing of the entire society depends upon the willingness to undertake it. And for that choice, as Crittenden argues, women should not have to pay the price of social marginalization and diminished economic security.
This simple idea represents a challenge to women on two fronts -- to the traditional-minded, who may not believe they have a right to take the martyrdom out of motherhood, and to feminists, who may be uneasy about Crittenden's assumption of women's primary responsibility for raising children. Many feminists frame the problems of women entirely around sex discrimition and are loath to focus on the disadvantage that women experience specifically from the decision to become mothers, because it separates women with children from childless women. The primary solution to the low status of child-rearing, in their view, is that men should share the work more equally. But, as Crittenden writes, "feminism needs a fresh strategy," since after 30 years of exhortation, most women continue to do nearly all the parenting work. Her approach is to accept at least some imbalance in the parental division of labor but to seek changes in law, policy and the workplace that reduce the social and economic losses mothers experience.
After long being accused of slighting mothers, a feminism that gave high priority to their interests could open up new political possibilities. For one thing, it might create bases of cooperation with conservatives on at least some issues, like tax policies affecting mothers. The child benefits and other European policies that Crittenden holds up as models have long enjoyed conservative support, partly because of their pro-natalist implications. If the white Protestants who make up the heart of American conservatism start to worry more about their own falling birth rates, they might begin moving in that direction. But, for the moment, there is no realistic prospect of a substantial commitment to reduce the cost of motherhood. Let us hope that this book will make it part of the mainstream discussion. "The Price of Motherhood" ought to receive a fair-minded hearing from any man who worries about the ability of his daughters to live a full life that includes children, and from any daughter who fancies that the work of the women's movement is done. For the reform-minded, there is enough in Crittenden's agenda to fill a lifetime of work and, at the rate we're going, it may take that long.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nataliya Moroz) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CHILDREN (88%); SPOUSAL SUPPORT (87%); LITERATURE (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); FAMILY (78%); WRITERS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); DISCRIMINATION (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); SOCIOLOGY (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); INTERVIEWS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); STATISTICS (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

PERSON: STARR, PAUL; CRITTENDEN, ANN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: PRICE OF MOTHERHOOD, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



258 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Darkness Visible 

BYLINE:  By David Traxel; David Traxel is the author of "1898: The Birth of the American Century." He is working on a history of the United States in World War I.

 BODY:
 1831
Year of Eclipse.
By Louis P. Masur.
Illustrated. 247 pp. New York:
Hill & Wang. $25.
 CERTAIN years -- 1492, 1776, 1898, 1914 are examples -- mark turning points in history. Louis P. Masur skillfully presents the case for 1831 to be recognized as another 12-month period when the course of American society was changed forever. An eclipse that took place in February of that year provides Masur with a metaphor that links some of the ominous though disparate events. As one contemporary newspaper noted, in many citizens this shading of the sun awakened "a kind of vague fear, of impending danger -- a prophetic presentiment of some approaching catastrophe."
Nat Turner of Virginia, however, had a liberating vision inspired by the celestial event: "I saw white spirits and black spirits engaged in battle, and the sun was darkened -- the thunder rolled in the heavens, and blood flowed in streams." In August he led a band of slaves in a bloody but futile revolt against their masters. This all too earthly event filled white people with their own dire prophecies, and by the end of the year the Virginia Legislature was debating the future of slavery, a future that, given its economic importance, was never really in immediate doubt.
Farther north, a Yankee, though he did not know Nat Turner, was also doing what he could to end the evil of slavery. January saw the appearance of William Lloyd Garrison's newspaper, The Liberator, which throughout the decades before the Civil War would serve as the rallying voice of the abolitionist movement. "I will be as harsh as truth, and as uncompromising as justice," Garrison promised. "On this subject, I do not wish to think, or speak, or write with moderation. No! No! . . . I am in earnest -- I will not equivocate -- I will not excuse -- I will not retreat a single inch -- AND I WILL BE HEARD."
Other great moral issues were being confronted. Black Hawk's band of Sauk Indians tried to return to their ancestral lands in Illinois but were crushed during a short campaign in which Abraham Lincoln was a volunteer, though he saw no action. In the South, the State of Georgia was prompting the federal government to expel the Cherokees, one of the "civilized" tribes that had adopted white ways of life but who saw themselves as an independent nation. The Indian Removal Act was eagerly signed by President Andrew Jackson in 1830, and the tribe took its case to the Supreme Court, which ruled against the Cherokees in 1831. A more favorable decision was made by the justices the following year, but Jackson ignored it. The Trail of Tears ensued in 1838 as thousands of Cherokees were forced to move west.
One of Jackson's reasons for supporting Georgia, aside from his own anti-Indian prejudice, was that he needed that state's help against South Carolina, which was claiming the right to nullify any federal law it disapproved of, in this case the protective tariff. Here was indeed an ominous development that caused men like former President John Quincy Adams, in his Fourth of July oration, to warn that the union formed by the founders might not survive.
Many thought that the second Great Awakening might provide the glue to hold such a fractious society together. Religion, one evangelical minister argued, could counter the forces of disunity caused by "our vast extent of territory, our numerous and increasing population . . . diversity of local interests, the power of selfishness and the fury of sectional jealousy and hate." Charles Grandison Finney, who gave up a career in law
to become a charismatic itinerant preacher, sparked the beginnings of the revival movement in 1826, and it reached its fiery peak in 1831 when over a hundred thousand new members joined Protestant churches.
Masur, who teaches history at the City University of New York, has organized "1831" by four thematic chapters: slavery and abolition, religion and politics, state and nation, machines and nature. Missing are the details of everyday life and popular culture. There is little on music, theater or literature, and only a bit about art. He does an excellent job of dealing with the large subjects and with a wide range of characters like Finney, Jackson, John C. Calhoun and Alexis de Tocqueville, bringing out their various oddities, nobilities, brilliance or lack of shine, their greed and courage. Masur has a sure eye for the lively and perceptive quotation: Americans, already so restless and in love with technology that they were being called the "locomotive people," would soon, one observer predicted, "sleep one night in Penobscot, the next in Cincinnati, the third in Charleston, the fourth in Philadelphia and the fifth in a remote corner of Lake Winnipeg!" An English visitor claimed that he had never heard Americans converse "without the word 'dollar' being pronounced between them." And Gustave Beaumont, who accompanied Tocqueville, declared after they had visited a wilderness under assault by pioneers, "There is . . . in America a general feeling of hatred against trees."
Something might have been gained by running these major themes side by side through the year, so that, to take one example, the complexity of the Cherokees' situation would be fully developed. We hear nothing about their religious beliefs, though it is noted that Protestant missionaries were working on their behalf. The large number of slaves they held is barely mentioned, yet 30 years later Cherokees would fight on the side of the Confederacy, supporting the very people who expelled them. We don't hear their voices or learn much about the fierce debates that took place in the tribe as they decided how to respond to being forced from their ancestral land, so we end up with the sense that they were only acted upon.
About the watershed aspect of 1831, I remain unconvinced. The slavery and tariff nullification issues were divisive and full of portents of "approaching catastrophe," but a number of years carried such grave messages, periods just as rich with mixtures of greed, moral uplift and disappointment. However, there are also other reasons to write about a year even if it does not mark a major change in the flow of history. A study of 1831 helps us understand events that happened both before and after, gives insight into the character of the United States and, also important, entertains with the stories it provides. This is especially true when the study is as thoroughly researched and well written as this one. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); SLAVERY (90%); CIVIL WAR (77%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); SUPREME COURTS (63%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: TRAXEL, DAVID; MASUR, LOUIS P 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: 1831: YEAR OF ECLIPSE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



259 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 4; Book Review Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 286 words

HEADLINE: Books in Brief: NonFiction 

BYLINE:  By John D. Thomas 

 BODY:
 HOLLYWOOD V. HARD CORE
How the Struggle Over Censorship
Saved the Modern Film Industry.
By Jon Lewis.
New York University, $26.95.
 When it comes to censorship in Hollywood, the bottom line is the ticket line. That's the central message in Jon Lewis's provocative and insightful investigation of the movie industry's history of self-regulation, "Hollywood v. Hard Core." The book focuses on two events, the Hollywood blacklist of the 1940's and 50's and the role the Nixon administration played in proscribing the development of the hard-core pornography industry. Lewis, who teaches film and cultural studies at Oregon State University, writes that the Hollywood power structure used the proceedings of the House Committee on Un-American Activities to its distinct advantage: "What the studio ownership discovered was that self-regulation in compliance with HUAC and grass-roots pressure to make less political, less meaningful films enabled them to better control the industry work force and exploit the increasingly international postwar theatrical marketplace." In the early 1970's, hard-core porn films like "Deep Throat" and "Behind the Green Door" posed a serious economic threat to Hollywood studios. Around that time, Lewis writes, Jack Valenti, the president of the Motion Picture Association of America, sensed a return to conservatism in this country, and he refused to include a slot for explicit subject matter in his new rating system. In the end, Lewis shows that Hollywood films are a triumph of commerce over art, and that the film industry has consistently used internal censorship and government-industrial collusion to guarantee that its cash flow is never seriously threatened. John D. Thomas

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (91%); PORNOGRAPHY (90%); CENSORSHIP (90%); FILM (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); FILM SCHOOLS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); LITERATURE (71%); CONSERVATISM (69%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY (56%); MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (54%)

PERSON: THOMAS, JOHN D; LEWIS, JON 

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: HOLLYWOOD V HARD CORE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



260 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: Business Class as if You Belonged 

BYLINE:  By MATT RICHTEL; MATT RICHTEL reports on Silicon Valley for The Times.

 BODY:
I JUST flew business class from Tokyo to San Francisco, and boy are my thumbs tired.
 I've been channel surfing since the South China Sea. Five time zones, one international date line, three feature films, an NBC in-flight magazine and a PBS special. Was it on "Our Friend the Virus?" I can't remember. I'm delirious with jet lag. 
 With its reclining bucket seats, spacious confines and free booze, business class is supposed to make it easier to sleep. But after years of wondering what it was like on the other side of the business class curtain, no way was I going to miss one screening, meal, light snack or disbursement of a moist, warm towelette. 
This all may sound old hat to the blase business-class flier, happily slumbering through. But to the interloper -- the economy classman bumped up on a one-time basis, thanks to the miracle of frequent-flier miles -- it's 15 hours of adrenaline rush. It would be easier to sleep in steerage on the Hindenberg. 
But don't make the same mistakes I made. Please observe these key tips for Surviving Business Class:

MEDICATE. Go to an overseas travel medical clinic. The people there are professionals, so they'll know just what to give you if you're going to Africa, Southeast Asia or Fresno. Just say, "I'm visiting business class for the first time." They'll give you a sedative. Beware of drug interactions and the effects of drowsiness: do not take sleeping pills while trying to operate a moist warm towel ette.

RESIST THE URGE TO NETWORK. You think they might seat you next to the C.E.O. of Time Warner/AOL/Pepsico.com. You think she'll find you urbane. You think she'll green-light your screenplay.
The truth is, if she's really the ultra influential C.E.O. you think she is, she's been sound asleep since takeoff. This is partly because she's wearing a sweat suit. Also she's put in earplugs and donned eye shades. She looks like a roadie for Eminem.
But she's comfortable, whereas you're not sure whether it's O.K. to loosen your tie. In fact, C.E.O.'s -- like other veterans of business class -- know that if they dress down, they can identify each other and are less likely to invite conversation from sycophantic economy-class clients. Perhaps the unkempt woman next to you is Quentin Tarantino -- who can really know? These people are cagey. Incidentally, they will network, but only toward the end of the flight, after they're rested from a long nap and the plane is coming in for a landing.
Odds are, if someone is talking to you in earnest, he is an interloper too. There is nothing more embarrassing than two people investing 30 minutes in polite conversation only to realize this is the first time either has had the "priority" tag attached to his luggage. It's usually a tipoff you're wasting time if your new friend says, "I don't get it, the carpets aren't even red."

DON'T FEEL OBLIGED TO PLEASE THE FLIGHT ATTENDANTS. The airline industry makes the hierarchy of humans quite clear. On top are first-class patrons and members of Executive Premier and other elite groups. They are followed by business-class customers and on down to the peasants who fly coach.
As a corollary, it may be tempting for people who usually fly coach but who, for whatever reason, are flying business class to believe themselves inferior to the flight attendants in that cabin. This, of course, is utterly, completely and absolutely true. Every society must have rules. Don't fight it. However, business-class interlopers need not feel they must constantly seek the approval of business-class flight attendants. For instance, you need not accept food each time it is offered. And it is not necessary to ask the attendant if you can get her anything. Also, don't ask her if she recommends the cannelloni agl'ortaggi in salsa di peperoni dolci or the filet mignon. It's airplane food! 
And of course there is the opportunity to imbibe, with an array of fancy wines and liqueurs that begins before takeoff. The cautionary note here is that if you participate in every opportunity, by the fourth time zone you'll be in the mandatory rehab class.

ACT AS IF YOU'VE BEEN THERE BEFORE. Upon boarding, do not look about furtively. Do not immediately start playing with the overhead light and fan, reading lamp or the in-seat phone. Do not say "neato." Do not peer behind the curtain separating you from economy class and scream, "We rule!"
Trust me on a few things: the bathrooms are the same as in economy class; so is the magazine collection. It is true, there are more pockets in the back of the seat in front of you, but they are no better stocked. The airsick bags are uniform, and it's a dead giveaway if you actually peer inside "just to check."
On long international flights, some airlines give you a pair of socks or booties. Do not ask what they are for. Do not ask why they would give you socks and not mittens, or a warm cap. If you do not know the answers to these questions, it is not your nature to know. Quietly pack away the socks and hope their raison d'etre comes to you, or maybe your children.

PRACTICE RECLINING. In its business-class in-flight magazine, United Airlines has four pages devoted to special "seat features." This includes a full-page diagram of the 18 amenities, like the laptop computer power outlet, and the personal control unit (used to select entertainment; please see page 60). Also there are nearly two pages devoted to "adjusting your seat." With at least four levers (which enable tilting of the back of the seat, the lower leg area, the foot rest and the headrest) there are several dozen sitting and reclining permutations.
The very thought of this is overwhelming to economy classmen who have spent their lives with one reclining option. Offering all these seating possibilities is like providing a starving man with an all-you-can-eat buffet; he will gorge until he kills himself. Or, in this case, he will play with the seat options until he becomes giddy. He will recline himself into exhaustion. Then, for two months after the flight, he will continue to think about the seat, eventually becoming delirious, then mad. He will be buried in a half-upright position. Sad, really. 
In short, it is irresponsible for the airline to give this technology to a novice. Try to have the seating diagram sent to you at least two weeks before takeoff.

BE GLAD YOU'RE NOT IN FIRST CLASS. When all else fails, when you're exhausted after eating light snacks and spending 10 hours watching movies you would never have wasted money renting at the local Blockbuster, you have an ace in the hole. You may feel superior to the people who flew first class. Rest easy knowing they have put on eight pounds in Godiva chocolate. For added serenity, look for the guy who peered back through the curtains from first class and screamed, "We rule!" Offer to straighten the tie on his tux.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Peter Arkle) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); TRAVELERS HEALTH (71%); DRUG INTERACTIONS & SIDE EFFECTS (66%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (57%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (51%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: PEPSICO INC (53%)

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%)

PERSON: RICHTEL, MATT 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRESNO, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); PACIFIC OCEAN (73%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (73%) UNITED STATES (91%); ASIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



261 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; 
Small Airlines Hit Hard By Fuel Prices

BYLINE:  By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
THE rise in crude oil prices is hurting some small regional and niche airlines, four of which sought refuge from creditors in United States Bankruptcy Court in December. All four cited the doubling of fuel prices in the last year as the prime cause of their problems, and while oil prices have come down a bit since last summer, they are still pinching all the airlines, none of which have rescinded the fuel surcharges that they began imposing last February. 
 Two of the airlines -- Legend Airlines and Reeve Aleutian Airways -- shut down in December. Legend had started flying just eight months earlier, offering premium-class seats at coach prices from Love Field in Dallas to New York, Washington, Los Angeles and Las Vegas. Reeve had been in business since 1932, flying from Anchorage to icy airports in the Alaskan archipelago and, in recent years, across the Bering Strait to Siberia. 
 PenAir, another small carrier, picked up one Reeve route, to the Aleutian island of Adak, and increased the frequency of flights on some other routes. But it uses smaller turboprops, not the jets and large turboprops that Reeve flew.
Two other start-ups, which were known for flying gamblers to Las Vegas -- National Airlines and Allegiant Air -- also filed bankruptcy petitions under Chapter 11. Both continue to fly, but Allegiant, in addition to charters, now has only one scheduled route, between its home base in Fresno, Calif., and Las Vegas. National Airlines, whose biggest shareholder is the Harrah's Entertainment casino company, flies to nine cities from Las Vegas.
Ray Neidl, the airline industry analyst at ING Barings, said fuel was the second-largest operating expense of an airline, after salaries and benefits. All four airlines that filed bankruptcy petitions, he said, "were operating on the edge, so it did not take much in the way of fuel price increases to push them over."
Higher fuel prices cost the airlines $5.4 billion last year, said David A. Swierenga, chief economist for the Air Transport Association, a trade group, and were a major reason that overall ticket prices rose 3.8 percent last year.
The cost of aviation fuel averaged 59 cents a gallon in the 1990's, but started to rise sharply early last year, peaking at $1.15 a gallon last summer for large carriers. Allegiant paid as much as $1.40 a gallon, said Jim Patterson, the airline's president. Fuel now sells for about 85 cents a gallon overall, but Mr. Patterson said his airline is averaging $1.20. On a one-hour flight from Fresno to Las Vegas his airline's DC-9's, which can carry 115 passengers, burn about 90 gallons of fuel on the ground and 880 more in the air, he said. 
Mr. Patterson said the bankruptcy filings are important because in the long run airlines like his provide the competition that holds down the prices that the big airlines can charge.
Spokesmen for two other start-up airlines, jetBlue and Shuttle America, said that they were doing well and that their business plans had anticipated the possibility of higher fuel prices. 
"We are turning a profit already," said Gareth Edmondson-Jones, spokesman for the privately owned jetBlue, which is based at Kennedy International Airport in New York and began flying a year ago today. "Because we invested in new, fuel-efficient Airbus jets, we have not been hobbled by the rising fuel prices, though they do hurt."
Mark R. Cestari, vice president for marketing at Shuttle America, based in Windsor Locks, Conn., near Hartford, said that the airline had benefited from negotiating a good fuel deal that has insulated it a little from rising prices, and from the fact that it flies only Dash-8 turboprops, which are more fuel-efficient than jets.
Mr. Patterson said that modestly financed airlines, such as Allegiant, are especially vulnerable to fuel costs when they add service to new cities because passenger loads are light at first, and the fuel costs can eat up capital.
Some larger airlines have long-term fuel contracts that delay the full impact of higher prices. Some also invest in contracts for the future delivery of home heating oil, whose price tracks that of jet fuel, to reduce the risk of wide swings in prices.
Last February the big airlines began imposing fuel surcharges to offset higher crude oil prices. Now most of the major carriers impose a fuel surcharge of at least $10 each way on discounted tickets, with some exceptions that illustrate how competition benefits consumers. US Airways, for example, levies the surcharge on some of its discount fares but not on routes between New York and either Buffalo or Rochester, where it competes with jetBlue, which has not adopted a fuel surcharge. Shuttle America's fuel surcharge of $5 per flight segment is now incorporated in the base fares. 
Legend, the all-premium-class carrier based in Dallas, had hoped to resume service late last month after investors pledged $20 million in new capital. The investors notified the company that they needed more time, however, and on Jan. 23 the airline laid off 291 workers. 
A Legend spokeswoman, Kim Plaskett, said that the carrier might still raise new capital. "We are not just another low-fare airline, but an airline with a niche product that works," she said. "When we shut down, our load factors were increasing, our revenues were increasing and our costs were just starting to go down, except for fuel costs, which rose until we literally ran out of cash." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PETITIONS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); AIR FARES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GAMING (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); CASINOS (70%); TICKET SALES (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); BANKRUPTCIES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

COMPANY: CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (56%); ALLEGIANT TRAVEL CO (55%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (52%)

ORGANIZATION: LEGEND AIRLINES; REEVE ALEUTIAN AIRWAYS; NATIONAL AIRLINES; ALLEGIANT AIR 

TICKER: CZR (NASDAQ) (56%); ALGT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (56%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (56%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (55%); NAICS481211 NONSCHEDULED CHARTERED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (95%); FRESNO, CA, USA (92%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (78%) NEVADA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BERING SEA (79%); TEXAS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (95%) ALASKA; LAS VEGAS (NEV)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



262 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 6; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Q.& A.; 
A Radiator Whistling At Night

 BODY:
Q: I live in a New York State Mitchell-Lama co-op. Three years ago the board decided to replace the valves on the radiators in each apartment and mandated that residents comply.
 I allowed these changes to be made in my apartment although I personally had no complaints about the heat. Since the installation of these new valves, my radiators have whistled periodically, usually at night, interfering with my family's ability to sleep. 
 The management company's engineer determined that the fault was not with the valves but somewhere else in the line. Now, the noise doesn't stop until I contact the maintenance office, which then has someone throttle down the pressure in that one line. I feel that the habitability of my apartment has been severely compromised. What are my legal alternatives in this situation? . . . Susan Olds, Manhattan.

A: Arthur Gussaroff, a Manhattan lawyer who specializes in Mitchell-Lama housing, said the letter writer has several options. She can file a complaint, he said, with the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal, the supervisory agency for New York State Mitchell-Lama co-ops, or with the New York City Department of Health if lack of sleep is causing physical or mental problems for her or her family. Either agency could order the co-op to correct the problem.
"These methods may be preferable to bringing legal action against the co-op because they will not involve the expenditure of money for legal fees," Mr. Gussaroff said.
If, however, the letter writer wishes to address the matter directly with the co-op, she has other choices. She can withhold her monthly maintenance payment, he said, and when the co-op brings her to civil court for nonpayment, she can raise the breach of the warranty of habitability as a defense and ask for a reduction in her monthly charges.
If the condition is serious enough to constitute a violation of the New York City Housing Maintenance Code, he said, the letter writer could begin what is known as an H.P. action in the Housing Part of Civil Court. In such a proceeding, Mr. Gussaroff said, an inspector from the Department of Housing Preservation and Development would visit the apartment and determine whether the noise constitutes a violation. If so, the co-op would be legally required to correct it.
In addition, Mr. Gussaroff said the letter writer could file an action in State Supreme Court seeking an order from the court compelling the co-op to correct the problem because it constitutes a nuisance.
"Unfortunately, there is no certainty of success in taking any of these actions," Mr. Gussaroff said. "A more viable solution may be for the letter writer to advise the co-op that she will refrain from taking any of the foregoing actions if they will either permanently repair the problem or move her to an apartment where the problem does not exist."

State Inspection Of an Apartment

Q: Whenever I have had an inspection of my apartment by the State Division of Housing and Community Renewal, the doorman notifies the superintendent, who then accompanies the inspector to my apartment so that he can report to the landlord. Is this not a violation of my privacy? . . . Jean M. Zimmermann, Manhattan.

A: Debbie Del Pino, a spokeswoman for the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, said the current Rent Stabilization Code requires the division to notify both the tenant and the owner of the building when it schedules an inspection of a tenant's apartment. Accordingly, she said, if the superintendent is acting as a representative of the owner, it would not be considered a violation of the tenant's privacy for the superintendent to accompany the inspector into the tenant's apartment.
"Having an owner's representative present enables the owner to evaluate the condition and decide who the appropriate worker would be to make the repair and possibly schedule a repair appointment with the tenant," Ms. Del Pino said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (77%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (77%); NUISANCE (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); LAWYERS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



263 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey; 
Upscale 25-Store Retail Strip Set for Woodcliff Lake

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE

 BODY:
GENERATIONS of families came to Tice Farms on Chestnut Ridge Road in the Bergen County borough of Woodcliff Lake to shop for produce or trinkets and to pick pumpkins during the fall. That tradition ended in 1999 when the farm's barnlike roadside stand and minimall were razed to make way for a different kind of shopping outlet. 
 Last month, after almost two years of legal challenges that centered on traffic issues and ended in a settlement, work began to turn the now-barren 13-acre site into a 120,000-square-foot shopping center that developers call a lifestyle center, considered the latest breed of retail strips and an alternative to enclosed malls. While there is no precise definition of such centers, retail professionals said that they generally are small, open-air strips filled with a mix of national and regional upscale specialty stores, dining and entertainment facilities and that they emphasize convenience. 
 When it opens in October, Tice's Corner, as the Woodcliff Lake project is called, will have 25 stores, each with 2,000 to 11,000 square feet, as well as a restaurant on the site, close to Exit 171 of the Garden State Parkway. Leases have been signed or are being negotiated on 90 percent of the stores, including with J. Crew, Eddie Bauer, Pottery Barn and Victoria's Secret, said Gene Heller, chief executive of Starwood Heller Properties. Starwood Heller is a joint venture between the Starwood Capital Group of Greenwich, Conn., and G. Heller Enterprises of Edgewater, N.J., which is developing the $25 million project. 
The sale of the parcel is the latest sign that suburban farmers are becoming as scarce as urban cowboys, especially in developed areas of New Jersey like Bergen County. The legal dispute surrounding the project also highlights a debate on how to allow development without eroding residents' quality of life. 
Tice Farms dates to 1808 and over time became surrounded by wealthy suburbs, edged by the parkway and squeezed by office buildings along Chestnut Ridge Road, Woodcliff Lake's main commercial avenue. In the 1960's, the Tice family sold 84 acres of the more than 200-acre farm and apple and peach orchards, which are now home to offices for BMW and Ingersoll-Rand. By the late 1970's, the owners had divided 100 more acres of the farm into five parcels, four of which have been sold and filled with a hotel and three office buildings along Tice Boulevard.
The fifth parcel included the 13 acres where the Tice Farms stand stood and 13 more acres behind it. That rear parcel is zoned for offices and is under contract to be sold to a separate developer, as is 22.5 more acres of the old farm in neighboring Saddle River that is zoned for housing, said Edward J. Schuck. Mr. Schuck is the managing member of Capstone Enterprises Group L.L.C. in Woodcliff Lake, which manages and markets the Tice Farms land for its owners.
IN 1999, Starwood Heller bought the front 13 acres as well as six acres across Chestnut Ridge Road. Since then, Starwood has developed a 10,000-square-foot building for Kindercare on three acres of the smaller site. It sold the other three acres to Sunrise Assisted Living, based in Fairfax, Va., which built an 85-unit assisted-living complex.
By contrast, the development of the 13-acre former farm stand site has aroused residents of Saddle River, who are worried that an access road to the project would steer traffic into their quiet streets. The access road, which parallels Chestnut Ridge Road, would direct traffic from the project and Tice Boulevard to County Road and away from heavily traveled Chestnut Ridge Road. 
Some Saddle River residents, who organized as Concerned Citizens, want to prohibit a right-hand turn from the access road onto County Road to restrict traffic flowing into their community. To try to alleviate those concerns, the Bergen County Planning Board, which has jurisdiction over County Road, decided to prohibit the right-hand turn and Starwood agreed to build the road as such. Woodcliff Lake rejected the move. 
That, in turn, set off a string of legal challenges, including a suit by the developer against the borough for not approving a subdivision to allow it to build the access road. The citizens group became a party in that suit, seeking the access road but without a right-hand turn.
For its part, the borough, said John Molinelli, its lawyer, sued Starwood, saying the developer had breached a contract the borough made in 1993 with the farm's owners specifying that any owner of the land would cooperate with the borough, which wanted the right-hand turn to divert traffic away from Chestnut Ridge Road, on building the access road. 
THE legal wrangling ended in a settlement in January 2000. Under it, the road will be built without the right-hand turn, but once the retail center is built, the county will re-examine the traffic issues and the need for the turn.
Harry Norton, the attorney for Saddle River, said that the settlement "as it stands is the best solution" and that the borough would oppose lifting the right-hand turn restriction in the future. 
Woodcliff Lake officials feel the settlement is fair and Mr. Molinelli added, "Time will bear out Woodcliff Lake's position." He said the borough also struck a settlement with Starwood Heller under which the developer agreed among other things to restrict future uses at the retail center to small upscale tenants and prohibit big box retailers.
The project is also expected to generate about $450,000 a year in taxes to the borough, said Jack Doyle, its administrator and chief financial officer.
Since the settlement, Starwood has razed the farm stand and secured final approvals for the center. It is proceeding even though the economy is showing signs of slowing, making consumers cautious. At the end of 2000, the state's retail vacancy rose one percentage point, to 5 percent, according to the Levin Management Corporation of North Plainfield, which manages more than five million square feet retail space in New Jersey. 
Still, Starwood is moving ahead because the "project and site are such a good match," Mr. Heller said, referring to the center's location close to the parkway and in a wealthy suburb. 
Bill Farber, Levin's chief operating officer, said lifestyle centers worked on a "tried and true formula: put in upscale retailers close to people with money and those people will come and spend." Such centers appeal to time-pressed shoppers because they are more convenient to get in and out of than malls, he added. 
Those factors, Mr. Heller said, are why Tice's Corner will work despite the presence of five enclosed malls along nearby Routes 4 and 17. He said the project would also do well "in good or bad economic times," because affluent shoppers are less affected by swings in the economy. 
A market survey showed there are some 265,000 people in 17 towns, most of them in Bergen County, within five to seven miles of the project with a average household income of $100,000 a year, added Tod Heller, Starwood Heller's vice president of marketing and leasing and Gene Heller's son. 
He said Tice's Corner would have two buildings:one with 105,000 square feet and the other with 15,000 feet. It will be designed by the architect John Montoro of Woodcliff Lake with "nooks, crannies and columns" to fit in with the Dutch colonial character of the housing in the area, Tod Heller says. There will also be walkways and benches in front of the stores, and the parking area will have landscaped islands. 
Starwood also agreed to provide parking and landscaping for the Frank and Harriet Tice Senior Citizen Center. It is being created from the house that the couple lived in and that Mrs. Tice, who died in 1999, donated to the borough. The house sits in front of Tice's Corner. 
In the end, the retail center "introduces upscale stores" to the borough and is favorable for Woodcliff Lake, Mr. Doyle said, adding that efforts were made "to ensure it was a quality development that would complement what we have."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rendering of Tice's Corner, a 120,000-square-foot shopping center that is to open in October in Woodcliff Lake. It is to have 25 stores, each with 2,000 to 11,000 square feet, and a restaurant on the site, close to Exit 171 of Garden State Parkway. (Starwood Heller) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); FAMILY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); STONE FRUIT PRODUCTION (73%); APPLE ORCHARDS (72%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (70%); SUBURBS (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%); JOINT VENTURES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: STARWOOD CAPITAL GROUP LLC (54%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



264 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1963 words

HEADLINE: FILM; 
Hello Again, Clarice, But You've Changed

BYLINE:  By MARGY ROCHLIN; Margy Rochlin's most recent article for Arts & Leisure was a conversation with Sean Penn and Robin Wright Penn.

DATELINE: DOWNEY, Calif. 

 BODY:
AS much as anybody, Julianne Moore knows that a part can live on. Especially after her experience on the daytime drama "As the World Turns." In 1985 Ms. Moore played the dual role of the good girl Frannie and her mysterious, identical, British half-sister Sabrina, who, in true soap fashion, was selfish and evil. Ms. Moore was so adept at making her characters' melodramatic existences plausible that in 1988 she was awarded a daytime Emmy, although she wasn't present at the ceremony to pick up her statuette. By then, she had left the show and was rehearsing the role of Ophelia in "Hamlet" at the Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis.
 As for the soap opera, the show carried on with the new Frannie and Sabrina, even though the characters looked nothing like Ms. Moore or, for that matter, each other. "They hired two different actresses to replace me," Ms. Moore said. "That was very, very flattering." 
 In 1991, in the final image of "Silence of the Lambs," Jodie Foster, as the rigidly earnest F.B.I. agent Clarice Starling, is holding a telephone receiver as Anthony Hopkins, the murderously clever Dr. Hannibal Lecter, coos creepily into her ear, having again eluded capture. In the opening image of the just-released sequel, "Hannibal," 10 years have passed and we see Clarice again, now in the back of a van speeding toward a crime scene. She is stretched out on a cot as her burly male colleagues marvel at her ability to nap during such an adrenaline-filled moment. It's instantly apparent that Clarice is still pale-skinned, pensive and all-consumed by her government job. It's also apparent that she's no longer Jodie Foster but rather Ms. Moore.
Ms. Moore was chosen for the part over some of Hollywood's most sought-after actresses, among them Angelina Jolie, Cate Blanchett, Hilary Swank, Ashley Judd, Gillian Anderson and Helen Hunt. (Ms. Foster, who won a best actress Oscar for "Silence of the Lambs," had bowed out -- depending on which rumor you believe -- because of a salary dispute, because of scheduling conflicts or because she found the Thomas Harris novel on which the sequel is based distasteful.)
Ms. Moore got the role after meeting with the director, Ridley Scott, last February at the Beverly Wilshire Hotel in Beverly Hills. "She flew out especially for us to meet and eyeball each other," Mr. Scott said. "It took an hour. That was it."
Mr. Scott had been tracking her career since 1996, when Ms. Moore, who is 39, portrayed one of Picasso's lovers, the lost soul Dora Maar, in "Surviving Picasso" (in which Mr. Hopkins also had the title role). "She's so diversified," Mr. Scott said. "She can be anything -- superglamorous, ordinary, out there and off the wall. She also can play very straight. Not a lot of actors can do that. She's a clever gal."
Ms. Moore hasn't quite figured out how to talk about the Clarice changeover without sounding tired of the question. Indeed, she probably wishes that two actresses had been hired -- one to play Ms. Starling and another to answer questions about Ms. Foster. But as it's only Ms. Moore alone who is taking home the reported $3 million paycheck for starring in "Hannibal," she has chosen to handle the matter in a time-tested Hollywood manner, by offering up the same spiel in interviews.
"Jodie was magnificent in this part," she said. "Really, really good. It's an honor to be asked to repeat something after she's done it. But I'm not going to be able to do what she did. There's just no way."
She seemed to be trying to breathe spontaneity into her line reading. Failing that, she started over: "This is sort of a Pollyanna thing to say, but every actor is different because every person is different. When you replace someone onstage, the play is re-reviewed. And that's because it's not the same experience anymore; no one can give the same performance."
Probably no one knows this better than the scores of actors who have been cast opposite Ms. Moore. For 11 years she has made a name by turning in portrayals that are so varied and individualistic that long after much of her movies may fade from memory, even her small moments are still easy to recall. Who can forget her twin expressions of growing shame and horror in "Safe" (1995), when her rich, environmentally allergic housewife reluctantly ventures into public and suddenly realizes that her nose is bleeding in full view of everyone Brief as her appearance may be as a brisk trauma surgeon in "The Fugitive," it inspired Steven Spielberg to cast her as an imperiled paleontologist in "The Lost World: Jurassic Park" four years later.
She is equally unforgettable in her 1990 feature-film debut in "Tales From the Darkside: the Movie" -- but perhaps that has mostly to do with the fact that Ms. Moore's character, a college co-ed, today looks hilariously dated in her 1980's bright purple Jane Fonda workout-style belted leotard and white aerobics shoes. Or maybe it's because she winds up being slashed to death by a killer mummy.
Two years later, in the thriller "The Hand That Rocks the Cradle," Ms. Moore's supporting character, a sarcastic real estate agent, also comes to a hideous end. Still, by the time the character is perforated by falling greenhouse glass, Ms. Moore had stolen so many scenes that reviewers couldn't help taking notice. In The New York Times, Vincent Canby called Ms. Moore's work funny and bright and applauded her for managing to wring laughs out of the retrograde advice she gives her best friend (Annabella Sciorra) about her new nanny (Rebecca De Mornay): "Never let an attractive woman occupy a power position in your home."
Ms. Moore has always prided herself on an ability to ferret out quality projects. "I'm really, really good at reading scripts, and I don't think most actors are," she said. She has twice been nominated for Academy Awards -- for her X-rated-film star Amber Waves in "Boogie Nights" (1997) and for the emotionally tormented adulteress of "The End of the Affair" (1999).
When she's wrong, though, she's not loath to admit it. "I think 'Body of Evidence' was a big mistake," she said, then threw her head back and laughed about the movie, a mid-90's Madonna vehicle that featured Ms. Moore as the wife of a philandering detective played by Willem Dafoe. Hyped as a steamy potboiler, the movie had its meager audiences howling instead. "It was a mistake on everyone's part," she said.
When she made this remark, Ms. Moore was eating stir-fried tofu and broccoli from a takeout container while sitting at a wooden table in her tidy, luxury trailer on the grounds of an abandoned Boeing aircraft plant here, where her latest film was being shot, an Ivan Reitman comedy called "Evolution." Suddenly a makeup artist gave a 10-minute-warning knock on Ms. Moore's door. Soon she'd be expected to walk back to a biodome on the set and start acting like an alien-fighting epidemiologist. Pursing her lips and looking pressed for time, she picked up the now-empty food container and tossed it in the garbage.
Then she indicated that she'd continue responding to questions while brushing and flossing her teeth in the bathroom. At one point she called out, "Ah ink 'Ort Uts' and 'Anya on Orty Econ Eet' ave ee ar istic edibility!" What she seemed to be saying was, "I think 'Short Cuts' and 'Vanya on 42nd Street' gave me artistic credibility," referring to a pair of critically acclaimed art house movies of the 1990's. (She was honored last month at the Sundance Film Festival for her contribution to independent films.)
Life in a temporary space is nothing new to Ms. Moore, who was born Julie Anne Smith. Her father, Peter Smith, was an Army judge, and as a girl, she said, she grew accustomed to hearing, "It looks like we're going to be reassigned."
She recalled, "We'd be in a place for a couple of years, and then you'd pack." With her father and mother, a psychiatric social worker, and two younger siblings, she moved 23 times, worldwide. But she said she never had trouble fitting in wherever she lived. "What I learned is that we're much more alike than different," Ms. Moore said. "As we'd go from town to town, I'd notice the way kids dance or how they talk or the way they dress. You know, the plastic things. But what binds us together is completely true. Those are the things I look for in my characters: what makes them universal."
In 1977, the Smith family was stationed in Frankfurt, Germany, when her high school drama teacher urged Julie Anne to take up acting. She eventually studied it at the School of Performing Arts at Boston University. Turning professional, she found that her all-American name proved too popular for Actors Equity. 
"There was already a Julie Smith, a Julie Anne Smith, there was everything," she said. "My father's middle name is Moore; my mother's name is Anne. So I just slammed the Anne onto the Julie. That way, I could use both of their names and not hurt anyone's feelings. But it's horrible to change your name. I'd been Julie Smith my whole life, and I didn't want to change it."
The more elegant designation, though, seemed a better fit for the blue-eyed ingenue whose co-stars found smart and pleasant and very self-contained. "She had this coolness about her, this dark spark," said the actor Steven Weber, who played one of her boyfriends on "As the World Turns." "She didn't flit around or kibitz. She just did her job."
Mr. Weber also recalled how determined Ms. Moore had been to make their romantic involvement seem credible. "On my first day, we had a big kiss coming up where we had to establish that we'd been in a relationship for a long time," he said. "But we'd never really met or anything. So we did a practice kiss in the dressing room. I think she suggested it. Who was I to say no?"
At the time, Ms. Moore was 23 and soon to marry John Rubin Gould, a struggling actor. She was ready to give up her globe-trotter status. "New York was the first place I wanted to live for the rest of my life," she said.
MS. MOORE, who divorced Mr. Gould in 1995, still gets all swoony about the West Village, where she now lives in a three-bedroom loft with the director Bart Freundlich (whom she met in 1997 while making "The Myth of Fingerprints," a film that Mr. Freundlich wrote and directed) and their 3-year-old son, Caleb. "We go to Florent all the time!" she said, referring to a hip neighborhood bistro. "My son's school is right there; so is the playground! It's perfect! It's heaven on earth!"
She keeps a snapshot of her son on her trailer mirror. He is one of those storybook children with light hair and round, widely spaced eyes. "He usually comes for lunch," Ms. Moore said apologetically, while gazing adoringly at his photograph. "He had a play date today."
During the making of "Hannibal," Caleb would entertain the cast and crew by imitating Dr. Lecter in front of Anthony Hopkins. Mr. Hopkins recounted in a telephone interview, "Julianne would say, 'Do the thing for Tony,' then he'd stare at me, bare his teeth and go, 'Grrrrrr.' "
In Mr. Hopkins (who won a best actor Oscar in "Silence of the Lambs"), Ms. Moore found her spokesman for anything having to do with herself, Ms. Foster or being the new Clarice. "Julianne is like most of the really good American actors I've worked with," he said. "She's very practical. She doesn't waste time. She comes on the set, does her job and knows her lines. She's not like these actors who talk about the arc of the part or the metaphor for the---- What on earth are they talking about? Julianne doesn't do that. And Jodie doesn't do that, either."
Mr. Hopkins said he saw Ms. Moore just a few weeks ago at a photo shoot in New York. "She said that she was a little nervous about the movie coming out. About taking over from Jodie. But I think all her fears are going to be swept aside."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Julianne Moore and Mark Wahlberg in "Boogie Nights": her performance won an Oscar nomination. (G. Lefkowitz/New Line Cinema)(pg. 20): Anthony Hopkins, as Dr. Hannibal Lecter, meets up again with the F.B.I. agent Clarice Starling, now played by Julianne Moore, in "Hannibal." (Phil Bray/Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Pictures)(pg. 13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAYTIME TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); FILM (74%); MEN (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%) MOTION PICTURES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (82%)

PERSON: ANGELINA JOLIE (57%); CATE BLANCHETT (54%) ROCHLIN, MARGY; MOORE, JULIANNE; FOSTER, JODIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (76%)

TITLE: HANNIBAL (MOVIE); SILENCE OF THE LAMBS (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



265 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 2540 words

HEADLINE: THEATER; 
The Brothers Viertel, a Theatrical Tag Team

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
ONE prefers the late-night pulse of city life, the other the lights-out peace of the suburbs. One is a Mets fan, the other is devoted to the Yankees. One can't stand caviar, the other abhors clams. 
 But both share a passion for barbecue, Jack Daniels and theater. And, individually and together, the brothers Viertel have carved out a place for themselves in the New York theater world that lately has become more prominent. 
 Earlier this season, Jack, 52, the creative director of Jujamcyn Theaters, was named the new artistic chief of the esteemed Encores! concert musical series at City Center. Jack Viertel also wrote the book for "Time and Again," a show that opened at the Manhattan Theater Club on Jan. 30. And, through Jujamcyn, the third largest commercial theater owner in New York, he is helping to bring two productions to Broadway this season: the Mel Brooks musical "The Producers" (based on Mr. Brooks's 1968 movie of the same name), which opens April 19 at the St. James Theater; and August Wilson's drama "King Hedley II," which opens April 29 at the Virginia Theater. 
In December, Tom, a real estate executive and theatrical producer seven years Jack's senior, was named board chairman of the prestigious Eugene O'Neill Theater Center in Waterford, Conn., which encourages new writers and composers. Tom Viertel, whose first produced show was "Penn and Teller" in 1985 in New York, and his producing partners are also helping to mount "The Producers" this season as well as "Mnemonic," a piece by Simon McBurney's experimental British troupe Theatre de Complicite, which begins a limited commercial run on March 28 at John Jay College Theater on 10th Avenue.
While the brothers have always been drawn to the footlights -- Jack was the theater critic for The Los Angeles Herald- Examiner who took Tom to see "Penn and Teller" in Los Angeles for the first time in 1984 -- their new roles will almost surely allow them more influence. As veterans of the commercial theater, both men will now have high profiles in the nonprofit arena, a fact that points up the increasing degree to which the once distinct worlds of commercial and nonprofit theater overlap. Encores!, which has become a major guardian of America's musical-theater heritage, seeks to resurrect old works and look at them anew; while the O'Neill is a prime nursery for the cultivation of untried theatrical talent. Yet conceivably, both organizations could become incubators for commercial productions -- with the Viertels in positions to nudge them in that direction.
Indeed, Tom said he felt that the O'Neill center had become too exclusively focused on new writers and he wanted to include established theatrical authors as well, a possible hint that the O'Neill could be used to test productions with commercial appeal by creators who have track records. His first appointment to the board was Susan Quint Gallin, a commercial producer, and he said he hoped to add more such members.
But Tom Viertel noted that his principal responsibilities at the O'Neill, where he has been a longtime board member, will be guiding the program, motivating the board and raising money; the institution is more than $1 million in debt. His new position, and that of the recently hired executive director, Howard Sherman, were previously held by the organization's founding executive director and chairman, George C. White, who has stepped down after 36 years. 
James Houghton, the artistic director of the O'Neill, said the fact that Tom Viertel had one foot in the commercial theater and the other in the nonprofit world was not a problem. "Tom is, I think, extremely disciplined about walking that line," Mr. Houghton said. "He has never given me any reason to be concerned about that."
If questions arose, Tom said, "I would try to think about it in as ethical a manner as I can." Generally, he pointed out, shows at the O'Neill are too embryonic to consider for commercial purposes. "I certainly never thought of the O'Neill as a shopping market," he said. "So much of what goes on there is in such an early stage that it's impossible to evaluate that way."
F OR his part, Jack has traditionally played a behind-the-scenes role at Jujamcyn, helping to identify promising projects, putting creative teams together, offering script notes.
He said that he has preferred playing No. 2 to more assertive types, like Rocco Landesman, the president of Jujamcyn, and to Tom, about whom he said, "It's comforting to me to have him step out and do things that I don't then have to do." 
Now, though, with the departure of Kathleen Marshall as the artistic director at Encores!, Jack is the one on the line. "I'm finally in charge and I'm not at all used to it," he said. "It's a shock to my system."
For Tom Viertel, too, the O'Neill position signifies a stepping out of sorts. He adds the responsibility to his work as part of a producing team that includes his cousin Steven Baruch, who is in real estate with him; Richard Frankel, the former managing director of the Circle Repertory Company; and Marc Routh, who started out as Mr. Frankel's assistant. Tom Viertel is generally regarded in the theater industry as a tough negotiator with a good business sense. As with any producer, some might question his artistic judgment at times, given the mixed critical reception of several shows he has been involved in: "Smokey Joe's Cafe" (widely seen in the industry as a triumph of marketing over matter), "Swing!," and, most recently, the poorly received "Time and Again." But he has also been part of producing such critical successes as "Driving Miss Daisy," "Angels in America," "The Weir" and "Frankie and Johnny in the Clair de Lune." 
Speaking as a producer himself -- of "Smokey Joe's Cafe" as well as an investor in an early version of "Time and Again" -- Mr. Landesman said of Tom Viertel's producing group: "The record is the record in terms of volume of production. They're a top-five player -- in a category with the Weisslers and Roger Berlind." 
The brothers Viertel take an obvious pride in each other's success and say they have come to rely on the other's counsel as they do no one else's. "It's the first place we turn, the first call that gets made," said Jack in a joint interview in his Jujamcyn office. 
Tom added: "There's nothing I wouldn't bounce off Jack as one of my very first stops. I always want to know what he thinks."
They say they talk from 2 to 10 times a day. They travel around the country together and to London occasionally to see shows. They go to the theater and dance concerts. They have brisket sandwiches at a dive on Eighth Avenue. They enjoy national barbecue festivals together, having both become certified Memphis-in-May judges who evaluate in three categories -- whole hog, shoulder or ribs -- at an annual contest in Tennessee.
"I don't know of any people who aren't married who are closer to each other," Tom said.
Jack and his wife, Linda, live in Tarrytown and have two children -- Joshua, 23, and Daisy, 18. Tom, who lives in Manhattan, is divorced. His children are Joel, 26, and Jessica Swenson, 29. His partner of 12 years, Pat Daily, runs his company's group sales operation.
And the brothers collaborate. Just about everything Tom -- with his partners -- decides to produce on Broadway, he brings to Jack at Jujamcyn. To be sure, the brothers and those who know them say their different professional strengths as well as personal styles are pronounced -- notwithstanding the little of each that has rubbed off on the other.
Tom, urbane and circumspect in small wire glasses and gray slacks, is the numbers guy, the nuts and bolts strategist, the businessman. (He is also the Yankees fan who won't eat clams.) Jack, tweedy and more expansive in larger wire glasses and a knit tie, is the word guy, the artistic mind, the dramaturge.
Tom is the optimist, Jack the pessimist. If they were the Gershwin brothers, Jack said, Tom would be social George and Jack the retiring Ira. This is summed up by how each brother experiences an opening-night party: "I'll go home as quick as I can," Jack said; "I'll stay," Tom countered, "till the end."
Jack, who had been on the advisory committee of Encores! since the first production in 1994, said that if he has any plans for the program, it is to excavate additional original show scores so they can be more authentically recreated. "I want to find all these shows and make them come alive again," he said. 
Since the hit Broadway revival "Chicago" originated as an Encores! production, the program has come to be thought of partly as a breeding ground for shows with commercial potential. Jujamcyn -- through Jack -- could conceivably get first crack at shows with particular promise. (In fact, in 1996 when Barry and Fran Weissler were in the process of transferring "Chicago" to Broadway, Jujamcyn was an investor in the show, which was originally promised one of its theaters: the Martin Beck.) 
Still, Jack Viertel said that he and his producing company would not abuse the privilege. "Jujamcyn isn't going to do that," he said. "We'll get into the frenzy with everybody else." Besides, he added, it usually does not make economic sense to move the minimal presentations of Encores! to Broadway. "This whole idea of Encores! being a launching pad -- we've produced 21 shows; only one has moved," he said. " 'Chicago' is sui generis."
Mr. Landesman hired Jack Viertel in 1987 after admiring a review -- albeit a negative one -- he had written from Los Angeles about the Jujamcyn musical "Big River." Jack brought David Henry Hwang's "M. Butterfly" to Jujamcyn, which became one of its producers. The drama would go on to win the Tony Award for best play in 1988. With that, "We became a player in the business," Mr. Landesman said, "and Jujamcyn hadn't been before."
Now, also for the first time, Jack has branched out into book writing, collaborating with the composer and lyricist Walter Edgar Kennon on adapting Jack Finney's popular 1970 novel, "Time and Again." It was Tom who hired him for the job. "Was there nepotism involved?" Jack asked. "Possibly."
Writing the show's book turned out to be harder and take longer than he expected, Jack said, because the novel, about time travel, did not lend itself easily to the stage. 
"Time and Again" originated with Tom and his partners, who bought the rights from the author. Although the show was produced at the nonprofit Manhattan Theater Club, Tom's producing group contributed $350,000 (the total production cost was $900,000) in what is known as enhancement money -- funds that help upgrade a show and secure the right to transfer it for a commercial run if it proves successful.
Now, Tom said, the show's life would end with the current production. Reviewing "Time and Again" in The New York Times, Ben Brantley called it, "static and passionless. " In Newsday, Linda Winer said it was "turgid."
Indeed, given the red flags along the way -- lukewarm reviews for an earlier version in 1996 at the Old Globe Theater in San Diego; the decision by Jujamcyn, which had put $1 million into the San Diego production, not to invest in the New York show -- it is somewhat surprising that the Viertels stuck with it. 
After the New York reviews, Jack said he was "depressed" but moving on. "It's very disappointing," he said. "As the writer, you feel more personally humiliated. But we've been there before with a lot of shows."
By now, both Viertels are all too familiar with the ups and downs of the business. "It's been a long hard road with this one," Tom said of "Time and Again." "Knowing what we do now, I'm not sure we would have chosen this material. But it has its rewards in terms of the work. Part of what you do this business for is enjoyment of the process."
That process runs in the family. The Viertels' grandfather was a theater builder and the general contractor on Broadway's Mark Hellinger -- now the Times Square Church -- and other Broadway theaters. Both parents were avid theatergoers. Their father, Joseph, who lives in Bedford Hills, N.Y., and Scottsdale, Ariz., had a play, "So Proudly We Hail," produced on Broadway in 1937 at the the 46th Street Theater, now the Richard Rodgers. He also wrote four fairly successful novels and had a real estate business. Their mother, who died in 1994, was an underwater photographer. 
Joseph Viertel read aloud to his children from the Burns Mantle annual play yearbook. He particularly loved, "Of Thee I Sing," his sons recalled, "Once in a Lifetime" and "You Can't Take It With You." 
In a telephone interview from Arizona, Joseph Viertel, 85, said he was proud to see that his sons had gone into the theater. "I wouldn't have had it any other way," he said. 
So the boys -- brought up in Stamford, Conn., along with a sister, Alice Krieger, now 56, who runs a nonprofit organization that brings art programs into public schools -- got the theater bug. 
Tom attended Choate, which produced two shows a year. ("I couldn't get into Choate," Jack said; both got into Harvard.) At Choate, Tom played Captain Queeg in "The Caine Mutiny Court Martial" and the murderer in "Dial M for Murder." At Pomfret prep school, Jack said he worked on 15 plays in three years -- mostly acting, but also directing and toiling backstage. "You were in 'Camelot,' " Tom reminded him. 
"I was the worst King Arthur in history," allowed Jack. "I had a white corset that showed through my black tights."
Each brother said he got excited about theater for different reasons. "I responded to the make believe in it," Tom said. "My favorite moment was walking into the theater and the whole sense of entering another world where you were safe but you could be transported."
According to Jack: "None of that ever occurred to me. To me, the most exciting moment was when the overture started. Particularly with antic musicals, I was struck by the ability to affect people's feelings without storytelling. Nothing to do with logic or language, just a release of joy."
After college, Tom started at NBC as a copy boy and eventually became a news film editor. When he realized he would have to first make his reputation in a smaller market, he decided it would take too long to do what he loved. So he quit and entered the family real estate business, Presidential Realty Corp. in White Plains, N.Y., which he runs with two partners, Mr. Baruch and Jeffrey Joseph. 
Once he had savored the success of producing "Penn and Teller" though, his producing partnership started to take off. It raises money in small increments from multiple investors and now also includes a booking agency that handles touring shows. 
Although the brothers appear to be at the top of their theatrical game at the moment, they know how to help each other through the inevitable rough patches. When "The Weir" was shut out of the Tony Awards, Jack talked Tom through it.
Tom Viertel remembered: "He told me that as a producer, 'You just saved the $300,000 that it would have cost in advertising for the Tonys, and that will enable the show to run longer,' which it did." 
"There really was a silver lining," Tom said. "You get so close to these things, it's helpful to have somebody sharing the frustration. People from outside the business can't really do that."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Penn Jillette and Teller, above left, in the show "Penn and Teller" in New York in 1985, which Tom Viertel produced; Laura Benanti, foreground, and Julia Murney in the musical "Time and Again": Jack Viertel wrote the book and Tom Viertel had a producing role. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); (Carol Rosegg)(pg. 26); Jack Viertel, left, and his brother, Tom, a theatrical producer, at the Jujamcyn Theater offices in Manhattan, where Jack Viertel is the creative director. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. 5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); WRITERS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FILM (77%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (75%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (54%) THEATER 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); EUGENE O'NEILL MEMORIAL THEATER CENTER (82%) JUJAMCYN THEATERS; CITY CENTER (NYC); EUGENE O'NEILL THEATER CENTER (WATERFORD, CONN) 

PERSON: PENN JILLETTE (56%) POGREBIN, ROBIN; VIERTEL, JACK; VIERTEL, THOMAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



266 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK; 
NPD Goes Online to Draw Portrait of Consumers

BYLINE:  By WARREN STRUGATCH 

 BODY:
For nearly 50 years, Port Washington-based NPD Group has tracked what America buys when it goes shopping.
 Plugged into thousands of cash registers from coast to coast, NPD records, tabulates and analyzes millions of retail transactions a month. NPD staffers have also persuaded 20,000 households to record their monthly expenditures in paperbound ledgers and mail the diaries back, to be picked over for trends. 
 There was last year's frozen food trend, for example. Looking over supermarket data, NPD discovered that Americans are eating more frozen food than ever. Sales of frozen foods were up 18 percent over 1999. 
Or consider toys, which NPD pointed out are increasingly likely to originate in Japan before some importer decides they will sell here too. Gundam Wing, for example, one of last year's top-selling action figure toys, was a big hit in Japan for years before it reached these shores.
Clients like Nike, Coca-Cola, J. C. Penney and Macy's are among NPD's long-standing clients. Sales to retailers, brand manufacturers and advertising agencies account for the bulk of NPD's approximately $150 million-a-year revenues.
While the world of retailing has changed mightily since NPD began tracking how shoppers behave in 1953, the firm itself remains a company its founder, Henry Brenner, would easily recognize and understand. The paperback ledgers Mr. Brenner introduced so consumers could track monthly household purchases not only provided the new company a name -- from national paper diaries -- but also remained in use until last year. That is when NPD completed its transition to online communication with the thousands of shoppers who make up what it calls consumer panels.
NPD says it has more than 800,000 consumers registered as panelists. In return for small payments, the panelists report on what they bought during that month, as well as what family members bought. Their information gives NPD a look into the shopping habits of about 2.5 million Americans.
Soon after buying the company in 1967, Tod Johnson, then a young market research specialist fresh out of Carnegie Mellon's graduate business program, abbreviated the name to NPD. But he has left the founder's methods largely intact.
Every month, 20,000 panelists are asked to go online and describe in detail what Mr. Johnson calls their "shopping experiences." Market researchers at NPD'S headquarters, in a former skating rink in Port Washington's Harbor Industrial Park, work to consolidate the data in order to draw a monthly portrait of the American shopper. NPD applies the basic market research methodology to 20 industries, including footwear, toys, perfumes and automobiles.
"We keep doing what we've always done, and we keep growing," said Mr. Johnson, who is the chairman and chief executive 
Last month, however, Mr. Johnson dropped a bombshell. On Jan. 17 he announced his company was launching a transformation on two fronts. First, Mr. Johnson said he had agreed to sell NPD's custom research unit -- representing about 40 percent of the business -- to Ipsos, a French research conglomerate. Second, the sale would allow NPD to begin to transform itself into a company doing business primarily on the Internet.
(NPD retains a majority interest in the proposed company formed in partnership with Ipsos, called Ipsos-NPD. It will still poll customers about shopping experiences. The deal awaits regulatory approval.)
Meanwhile, the internal transformation to a digital company continues. Last year, NPD phased out the last of the paper diaries in use since the 1950's and now receives all information from panelists via the Internet.
Later this year, NPD plans to send out the last of the awkward bound volumes containing sales data and analysis, sometimes weighing more than 5 pounds. The information will eventually be delivered through the Internet.
For clients, many of whom discovered the Internet several years ago, the question has to be: What took NPD so long?
"They do a wonderful job of tracking sales and getting the data together for us," said Kathy Collins, a marketing executive with an NPD client, Lee Jeans in Kansas City, Mo. "And it's faster than it used to be."
Last year, Ms. Collins said, Lee realized that several of its competitors were making inroads into one important category: preteen boys. The trend was outlined in one of NPD's monthly reports.
"We realized that boys between 8 and 12 were buying skateboard-style pants, rather than jeans," Ms. Collins said. "We quickly developed a new brand, called Pipes, for this market. Pipes has the big pockets and detachable legs that kids associate with skateboarding. We got the new brand into the stores quickly and it was very successful."
The transformation to an Internet environment will not only get data to clients faster and fresher, but will also allow clients to see the picture from a wider perspective, said Marshal Cohen, who is handling development of NPD's first industry Web site, Fashionworld.
When Fashionworld is functioning, Mr. Cohen said, a retail executive will be able to go online and trace a brand's sales across all categories. "The executive will be able to see not only how the brand does in department stores, say, but also in convenience stores and over the Internet," he said. "It will allow the executive to see the situation more as the consumer does."
The move to the Internet will also enable NPD to get more detailed information from consumers, according to Mr. Cohen.
"We've always been able to get information about the products bought and the prices paid," Mr. Cohen said. "Now we can be much more interactive. We used to be able to say, 'Someone bought a dress at a chain store for $50.' Now we can send over an e-mail and ask, 'Did you go to a department store first?' If they didn't make a purchase, we can now find out why."
The new specificity will appeal to corporate clients in many ways, Mr. Cohen said.
"For example, when you run an ad, you really have no idea whether the ad generates new business or not," he said. "Now, we can ask the consumer: 'Did you go because there was a sale? Would you have bought the item even if there was no sale? What if the sale was 20 percent off instead of 30?' "
The changes at NPD didn't surprise at least one client. "Tod is always looking for new ways to do things," said Sid Smith, president and chief executive of the Hosiery Association, an NPD client in Charlotte, N.C. "I think his personality permeates NPD, in particular his commitment to quality and innovation. He doesn't believe in sticking to the status quo."
The transition into an Internet environment poses a number of questions for the firm, some of them quite knotty.
"You can't just start doing all your polling online and presume you have a representative sampling," Mr. Johnson said. "It wouldn't be statistically valid. People who shop online are still a bit more upscale, and more likely to live on the East or West Coast, than the country's population over all.
"But virtually every segment of the population is online today. If we manage our sampling correctly, we can represent the whole population quite well."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 18, 2001

 CORRECTION:
The L.I.@Work column last Sunday, about the Port Washington-based market research company NPD, referred imprecisely to the ownership of a proposed spinoff of the company's custom research unit. It would be owned by Ipsos, a French company, not by NPD.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tod Johnson has guided the move by the NPD Group, of Port Washington, to the Internet from paper diaries to record consumer retailing preferences. (Phil Marino for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); TRENDS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (77%); FAMILY (77%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); TOYS & GAMES (75%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (64%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (53%); EXECUTIVES (50%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; PUBLIC OPINION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NPD GROUP 

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%) SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC; 

PERSON: BRENNER, HENRY; JOHNSON, TOD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



267 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Shedding Light on Lincoln 

BYLINE:  By JANE GORDON 

 BODY:
HAROLD HOLZER first met Abraham Lincoln when, in the fifth grade, he pulled his name out of a hat. Lincoln became his assignment, and the boy borrowed a book from the school library, "The Lincoln Nobody Knows" by Richard Current, for his report. 
 The report turned into a 40-year pursuit of the enigmatic Lincoln, one that has forged a reputation for Mr. Holzer, a resident of Rye, as a leading Lincoln scholar. He has done this, remarkably, while always working a day job doing something else. 
 Those jobs -- mostly political, because Mr. Holzer loves politics almost as much as he loves Lincoln -- include public relations work for Bella Abzug, WNET, the Cuomo administration's economic development programs and now, the Metropolitan Museum of Art. 
As for his avocation, Mr. Holzer has written, co-written or edited 18 books on Lincoln. He appears frequently on television, including the History Channel and PBS, to talk about the 16th president, participates in Lincoln groups, lectures widely, curates Lincoln art exhibitions and was named to the Lincoln Bicentennial Commission by President Clinton.
"He's one of a kind, very special; he's driven," said the new chief justice of the Rhode Island Supreme Court, Frank Williams, a close friend of Mr. Holzer's who also is a Lincoln scholar. "He has got productive genes -- that is, to do work in addition to his day job unlike anyone else I've ever seen -- and somehow he manages to balance that drive and competitive spirit with his love for his wife and two daughters and his mom and sisters."
Mr. Holzer pursues his hobby in his spare time, often at his home in Rye, which he called an unlikely location for a Lincoln enthusiast. 
"They're interested in George Washington," he said with a grin. "He slept in Rye." 
Peekskill would have been a more predictable choice: "Governor Pataki recognized that -- he created a little Lincoln memorial at the train depot where Lincoln stopped and spoke for a few minutes on the way to his inauguration. Lincoln was all over the west side of the county." 
But for just a moment 20 years ago, Mr. Holzer closed his eyes to Mr. Lincoln and followed a Manhattan neighbor to Rye. 
Mr. Holzer's passion began when he was quite young, and it was encouraged by his father, a roofing and waterproofing contractor in Little Neck, Queens.
The elder Mr. Holzer took the boy, then in the sixth grade, on a trip to Washington. They visited the Lincoln Memorial and the old Ford's Theater, where the great Lincoln collection was kept, "the most boringly displayed stuff but unbelievable pieces, including a necklace and bracelet worn by Mary Lincoln for the inaugural," Mr. Holzer remembers, his face melting into that of a spellbound schoolboy's once again.
"I saw the place where Lincoln was assassinated. We rode the trolley and stayed at the Ambassador Hotel. I remember everything about it. 
"I had aspirations to write, and I liked the fact that he could communicate with millions of people through the power of his pen, even while waging war," Mr. Holzer said. "The brilliance of the writing, the strength of the personality, the suffering, the endurance -- the story was just very compelling to me."
Photographs and prints, in particular, absorbed Mr. Holzer's interest early on. Americans no longer value them the way they once did, he said, when they were harder to come by. 
"We're also spoiled by a sort of cynical attitude about politicians that people then didn't share," he said. "Politics then could be very ugly. It was always partisan but never cynical. I think people have lost their understanding of what 19th century politics was like. They want debates that are very calm and unthreatening, when in fact that wasn't anything like the debates between Lincoln and Douglas. They were vitriolic and angry and personally insulting, and people loved it. 
"Lincoln would have thought Bush and Gore were asleep during the debates."
Mr. Holzer's increasing expertise and public visibility brought him to the attention of Mr. Cuomo, a fervent admirer of Mr. Lincoln who initiated a book project during his administration, "Lincoln on Democracy," that involved Mr. Holzer. 
It began when Mr. Cuomo, then governor, met in his office with Polish teachers from the trade union Solidarity. He said to them, "Now that the Iron Curtain is falling, what can New York State do for you?" They promptly answered, "Give us Lincoln," having been stripped of his works by the Communists.
Mr. Cuomo searched for a book on Abraham Lincoln and democracy, came up short and called Mr. Holzer.
"He stroked his white and brown beard, now mostly white," Mr. Cuomo said, "and said there really is nothing about Lincoln on democracy. So I said, 'Call your friends.' I wanted to gather the Lincoln scholars. Instead of writing a book, we would simply cull the most significant things he said on democracy. We had no money -- just enough to pay for the book. It sold wonderfully well, won a prize or two and we had it translated into Polish. I think I got 2,000 copies and sent them over to Poland, and I gave one to Lech Walesa. The ideas were mine, and Harold managed the thing to a solution. Hillary Clinton tells me that Bill Clinton keeps the book by his bedside; you can read it in 15-minute portions if you like."
"I think Harold loves Lincoln. He loves the idea that he loves Lincoln and loves the idea that he knows so much about Lincoln. When you are acknowledged for informing yourself, you inform yourself more. And then you are a Lincoln scholar."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harold Holzer, who has written many books about Lincoln, in his office at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. (Barbara Alper for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LITERATURE (77%); SCHOOL LIBRARIES (77%); POLITICS (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); HISTORY (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (55%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (54%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%); RHODE ISLAND SUPREME COURT (55%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%) LINCOLN, ABRAHAM (1809-65); HOLZER, HARRY J (PROF); CUOMO, MARIO M; GORDON, JANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: LINCOLN ON DEMOCRACY (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



268 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2309 words

HEADLINE: A Wing and a Prayer 

BYLINE:  By ELISSA GOOTMAN 

DATELINE: EAST GARDEN CITY 

 BODY:
LONG ago, when most people remembered the days when Roosevelt Field meant airplanes, not shopping, a young man set out from the land where Charles A. Lindbergh took off for Paris and buckled up for his first long-distance airplane ride.
 The year was 1973, the man was Nassau County's director of museum services, Edward J. Smits, and the mission was to experience a pioneering technology: the IMAX theater, which a San Diego air and space museum had recently unveiled and which, it was believed, would be installed in a museum soon to open on Long Island. 
 The Space Shuttle Challenger was launched, the Cold War thawed, and Grumman changed hands and moved to Los Angeles, but the Cradle of Aviation Museum never got off the ground. The group charged with actualizing the concept distinguished itself as the only charter member of a national IMAX theater operators' association that did not actually own the product.
Two county executives, nine building contracts and more than $40 million in county funds later, a sparkling grid of blue glass and two tidily refurbished airplane hangars beckon drivers on Charles Lindbergh Boulevard. The buildings already hold $200 million in flying machines, with another $400 million in storage. Inside, a giant spherical screen awaits audiences eager for the illusion of a takeoff, and restored wood and metal machines that once provided the real thing are swaddled in plastic until the marveling throngs arrive. 
But as local leaders parse an agreement between the county and a non-profit group that would operate the museum, they are raising thorny questions about whether such a major project is affordable under a county budget so tight that services as basic as public buses have been threatened.
"Having this fiscal crisis just as we're about to open one of the largest facilities the county's ever built is a unique experience," sighed Mr. Smits, now 67.
Aside from prospective donors, the only tour groups trickling through the Cradle of Aviation Museum these days are Nassau County legislators, who have been invited inside to witness how far the museum has come in the expectation that they will deem it foolish to withhold money now. But for some officials, even the notion of power-lunching at a cafe modeled after the planet Mars is insufficient inspiration for another dip into the county coffers.
"In this kind of fiscal climate, it would be very hard to convince taxpayers to pay money for a museum when children's programs are being cut," said Lisanne G. Altmann, a Democratic legislator who skipped the tour and sent her assistant. "We've been bailed out by the state. We're a charity case. Charity cases don't go around building museums.
"I think we couldn't possibly commit to future funding until we have some confidence that the $42 million has been spent responsibly," she said. "We're so aware that the opportunity exists for projects to just get out of control, and for projects that shouldn't cost a lot to end up costing a fortune."
Others argue that now is the time for tying up loose ends, not retracing the bygone pitfalls of a near-finished product. 
"When you see it, you realize how far along it has come and that actually to stop it now would be almost as foolhardy as perhaps going into it in the very beginning," said Judith A. Jacobs, the Democratic presiding officer of the legislature. "Would this be something to embark on this year? Probably not. But we're well past the embarking stage. We're at the countdown level."
The countdown is taking longer than expected, with representatives of both parties reviewing and critiquing drafts of a proposed agreement between Nassau County and a group called Nassau Heritage, which would operate the museum.
Last week, the Nassau Interim Finance Authority, the state board overseeing the county's finances, requested a copy of the proposed agreement and other plans for a museum row in the area, of which the Cradle would be the first fixture.
"Right now, the priority in Nassau County is getting the county budget back on track, not just for this year but for the next few years," said Richard M. Kessel, a NIFA member. "If the county wants to sink any further funding into the Cradle of Aviation or any of the other museums, they've got to show that it fits within the confines of the four-year financial plan that's been approved.
"If it in any way interferes with the county's ability to balance its budget over the next four years, that would certainly raise a flag with us," Mr. Kessel said.
For starters, there is the length of the lease, a particularly touchy topic given the rancor over a 90-year lease with the Nassau County Museum of Art, from which Republican lawmakers would like to see the county extract itself.
Some think 20 years is still excessive. The county comptroller, Frederick E. Parola, wrote in a Jan. 26 memorandum to the county executive, Thomas S. Gulotta, that an agreement that long "would tie the county's hands to contract terms that it may find undesirable."
And then there are the terms themselves, which include a fuzzy set of county obligations that Mr. Parola estimated could swell to $27.6 million over five years, a figure that Mr. Smits said was inflated. Under the most recent draft of the agreement distributed last week, the county would pay for utilities except for gas, estimated at $300,000 a year, and insurance and local telephone service, for which no estimates have been given. The county would also bankroll maintenance costs and perhaps capital improvements.
"Because of the increased emphasis on long-term planning, people want to make sure they don't sign onto something now that three and five years out become costs that start ballooning," said the Legislature's majority counsel, Chuck Cutolo. "We have to look at this with a very sharp pencil." 
Mr. Gulotta is hoping the agreement will be wrapped up quickly. "It was crafted as tightly as we believe is reasonable while enabling it to be practical in its application," he said. "But if the legislators have suggestions, I'm open to suggestions."
In the meantime, the civil service workers' union has proposed that the county run the museum itself, keeping all profits and, of course, hiring union workers. The Legislature is examining the union's proposal.
"If the county has a public mission and a public obligation to run these museums, they shouldn't be abrogating their responsibilities by contracting with a non-public entity," said Anthony P. Giustino, president of Civil Service Employees Association Local 830, which represents 10,500 county workers. "Here you're actually going to make money, and you're giving it away to an organization without meaningful controls."
It is not clear whether the Cradle will make money, or what it would do with a surplus. Nassau Heritage has proposed that as soon as the museum reaches an operating balance of $2 million, 50 percent of its net income would go toward a fund that the county could use either to expand Museums at Mitchel or to reimburse itself for past investment in the site.
But directors of some of the county's smaller museums are demanding that the county use funds generated by the shiny new arrival to feed its neglected older siblings.
"I'm terribly concerned that were going to lose money for the smaller museums," said Neal R. Fairchild, who is in charge of maintaining Old Bethpage Village. "The fact is that Nassau County is giving away this building that we just built and put all these beautiful aircraft in. Roofs are leaking at the other facilities. We use buckets to catch water."
Nassau Heritage has estimated that 475,000 people will visit the Cradle of Aviation each year, generating an extra $400,000 in sales tax revenue for the county. This figure, too, has been challenged. 
"If they were going to go out to eat and instead go to the IMAX theater, that's not new revenues," Mr. Cutolo said.
By all accounts, it makes sense to have an aviation museum on Long Island, where the daredevil, entrepreneurial, military and industrial aspects of aviation converged. Golden Age of Aviation greats like Glenn Curtiss and Elinor Smith flocked to the Long Island Aviation Club and the Roosevelt Aviation School, and numerous aircraft manufacturers set up shop here.
While the Cradle collection is not the most extensive in the nation, it is an impressive effort to trace the history of flying and Long Island's role in it. 
In a testament to the extent of enthusiasm for the project, hundreds of volunteers, including many retired Grumman employees, have clocked more than 625,000 hours restoring the collection, which was assembled throughout the years and paid for by private supporters. The Friends for Long Island's Heritage, a nonprofit group that spun off Nassau Heritage, has raised $10 million.
"Long Island was such a fertile place for aviation in the United States, not only in terms of airplane manufacturing, but also from great flights," said Walter J. Boyne, a former director of the National Air and Space Museum at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington.
Since the 1930's, Long Island politicians and airplane enthusiasts have talked about finding a way to preserve and showcase the story of the airplane on Long Island. In 1969, the county executive, Eugene H. Nickerson, Mr. Smits and Preston Bassett, the president of Sperry, met to ponder the possibility of a museum at Roosevelt Field, which is east of the eponymous mall on land now occupied by Fortunoff's Mall at The Source.
The county did not own Roosevelt Field, but just to the south it did own Mitchel Field, a former Air Force base that contributed most of the buildings that today make up Nassau Community College. So Mr. Nickerson amended his plan to include an aviation museum as part of a Kennedy Cultural Center he envisioned for the area, a glittering complex with a library and a performing arts center.
Along came a new county executive, Ralph G. Caso, whose pet project was a Bicentennial Center, a scaled-down version of Mr. Nickerson's Kennedy complex. It was booted back to the drawing board when the economic slump of the 1970's set in.
"People became very cautious about making any money commitments," Mr. Smits recalled. 
An architectural firm did a rendering, and enthusiasts collected a few items to showcase, including a Ryan monoplane that is a sister of the Spirit of St. Louis. It is now resting patiently in an old Mitchel Field hangar, one of two that the county assigned to the museum in 1979.
The county forked over the first cash in 1980: $1.75 million to stabilize the buildings and begin planning. Over the next 20 years, the county made various appropriations, which now stand at more than $40 million. 
On the collecting side, there were victories, like the 1918 Curtiss Jenny scooped up from a farm in Iowa where Mr. Lindbergh had left it after a barnstorming stint. And there were mishaps, like the $4,000 deposit given to an English adventurer who had found the remains of a Grumman Wildcat in the Guadalcanal jungle. The Solomon Islands changed hands before the plane was recovered, and the new leadership forbade the export of military souvenirs. 
Back at home, the architectural firm contracted to design the museum turned out to be lackluster, and a second firm went bankrupt. By the time the bankruptcy court released the building plans in the early 1990's, the local economy was in a severe slump. The county money kept pouring in nonetheless: $12.6 million in 1995 and an additional $7.6 million by the end of 1999.
With bicentennial babies in college, the Bicentennial Center no longer seemed like such a good idea. The Gulotta-era vision for the area became Museums at Mitchel, a cluster that would include a refurbished children's museum, a firefighting museum, a science and technology museum and a hand-carved carousel circa 1915.
But that was not all. Museum row would be but one fixture in "the Hub," a grand plan to convert central Nassau County into a thriving urban center where teenagers, tourists and families would travel from store to restaurant to exhibit on a sleek light rail system, dropping money into cash registers at each stop.
The Hub has yet to thrive, the notion of a light rail system for the area has been eulogized and a full-blown Museums at Mitchel complex looks like a long shot. The Cradle of Aviation is another story, and Mr. Smits and his fellow planners say they will be ready to open the doors six months from the date of an agreement with the county.
The museum will include 65 aircraft in eight galleries, bringing the history of aviation to life through restored planes and replicas, first-person narrators dressed in character, mannequins and possibly even sea smells, enthused Joshua Stoff, who, after 20 years as a curator without a museum, is understandably anxious to tear a few tickets.
Part of a bomb shelter will be re-created, and a couple of weeks ago, a volunteer was restoring the Lunar Module that was scheduled to be blasted to the moon on Apollo 18, but never made it up because of cuts in the NASA budget.
Behind the wall of glass is a 1929-era open-cockpit Fleet biplane that students at Roosevelt Aviation School trained in, roaring through the sky during the pre-smog era. Restored, painted bright yellow and outfitted with two female mannequins with scarves outstretched as if in mid-flight, it hangs suspended from the ceiling.
The Navy's first supersonic airplane, the 1950's-era F-11 Tiger, dips nearby, nose-to-nose with an empty front door and a parking lot in progress.
"Only on Long Island do you put up one of the world's greatest air and space museums and everyone's taking pot-shots at you," Mr. Stoff said, marveling anew at the gleaming Tiger -- a finished touch and, he hopes, a portent. "If you had a facility like this going up in the middle of Kansas, you would have guaranteed community support."

GRAPHIC: Photos: AN IMPRESSIVE collection of aircraft at the Cradle of Aviation Museum will trace the history of aviation and Long Island's role in it. In the glass-walled entrance lobby, a 1950's-era F-11, the Navy's first supersonic airplane, hangs from the ceiling. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 1); After decades of planning and more than $40 million in county funds, prospective donors and Nassau County legislators have been the only tour groups to the Cradle of Aviation Museum. Peter Truesdell worked on a Republic JB2 missile, one of 65 aircraft to be displayed. At left, a Lillienthal hang glider, circa 1896. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 14) Map of Long Island highlights Museums at Mitchel Center. (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SPACECRAFT (75%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (71%); AIRLINES (69%); BAILOUTS (68%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: CRADLE OF AVIATION MUSEUM (EAST GARDEN CITY, NY); NASSAU HERITAGE (ORGN) 

PERSON: GOOTMAN, ELISSA 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARS (57%) UNITED STATES (79%) NASSAU COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



269 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2711 words

HEADLINE: That Commute to the City Is Now Changing Direction; 
By Car, Bus or Train, Workers Prefer Coming to New Jersey

BYLINE:  By GEORGE JAMES 

 BODY:
DEBBIE NORWOOD comes in from Queens. Sue Vander Schans travels from East Stroudsburg in Pennsylvania. And Ken Barbera makes the trip every weekday morning from his home in Orange County in New York.
 The three are among about 255,000 commuters who have joined a growing movement: Each day they go against the grain and travel to jobs in New Jersey -- the mother of all bedroom communities. 
 "It seems there are a lot more people working in New Jersey now," said Ms. Norwood, a supervisor of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, who has seen the number of commuters who travel to New Jersey grow in the 10 years that she has been making the daily trek from Far Rockaway in Queens. "A lot of them are still working for the same company, but the company now is on the Jersey side." 
Her perceptions are correct. About 6 percent of the state's 3.6 million workers come into New Jersey from out of state every day, according to 1990 Census data, the latest figures available. Looking at it another way, New York City accounted for 3.5 million jobs 50 years ago, while New Jersey had fewer than half of that, 1.7 million. But by 2000, that had changed. Today, New Jersey has 3.9 million jobs, and New York City has only 3.7 million.
The commuters arrive by car, by bus, by train, by ferry and in some cases by helicopter from as far away as Maryland -- adding to the congestion on the state highways and straining its mass transit system -- to take advantage of job opportunities in telecommunications, pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, finance, electronics and a variety of other industries that prospered in the economic boom of the last decade.
Much of that has to do with the changing pattern of jobs in the region over the last 50 years, said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. 
"In 1950, New York City was the center of the economic universe," he said. "But over the next 50 years, along with residential suburbanization, we also had jobs suburbanization, so the regional economy has really spread over a wider geography than ever before. Given that regional spread, we have a more complex set of commuting patterns."
Those patterns have been created, in part, by New Yorkers who have sought their fortune along such suburban growth corridors as Interstates 78 and 287 or have followed their jobs to the office towers along the New Jersey waterfront as an increasing number of companies flee the more costly confines of Manhattan. Then there are the empty nesters who have given up their houses in suburbia for apartments in Manhattan but keep their jobs in New Jersey. And there are the New Jerseyans who have moved to grander but less-expensive homes in Pennsylvania.
Since 1992, when a growing number of office complexes began sprouting up in the cornfields of Central New Jersey -- now known as the Wealth Belt -- and on sites of deteriorating factories along the Hudson River, the state has added 500,000 new jobs, Dean Hughes said. In addition, the office market in the 11 counties in north and central New Jersey has evolved into the fifth largest in the country.
"For individual households, it provides an economic freedom that we never had before," said Dean Hughes. "The downside is we've got a lot of people every morning and evening moving around in all different kinds of directions."
Chet Mattson, director of planning and economic development for Bergen County, put it this way, "People now travel greater distances to find jobs and travel in greater numbers to find jobs."
While some New Jerseyans have continued to work in the state but live in Pennsylvania for economic reasons, some die-hard New York City commuters end up moving to New Jersey for the same reason: the city is too expensive.
"People live west of the Delaware in order to try to find lower taxes," said Carl Van Horn, director of the John J. Heldrich Center for Work Force Development at the Bloustein School. "That's certainly true from Bucks County on up and even down into Southern New Jersey. Some people commute into Burlington and Camden Counties."
Dr. Van Horn added: "When it comes to the New York commuter, whether they're coming out of the city or Rockland County or wherever, they're going after specific job opportunities. They're not coming to avoid taxes."
Whatever the attraction, the daily commute to New Jersey -- whether easy or exhausting -- can be costly, particularly with a $2 increase coming on Hudson River crossings and a 50-cent rise, to $1.50, on the PATH trains.
Ms. Norwood, the 40-year-old supervisor for the Port Authority's print shop at its tech center in Jersey City, used to work in the World Trade Center in Manhattan, an hour trip on the A train. But for the last 10 years she has added another 45 minutes to her commute by taking the PATH train to Hoboken and a Port Authority shuttle to the tech center near the Holland Tunnel.
Aside from having to get up earlier -- 5:15 A.M. to be at work at 8 A.M. -- she finds herself swimming against the tide once she reaches the World Trade Center, where, on an average day last year, 65,777 people rode the PATH trains, an estimated 7,800 of whom are commuting to the jobs in New Jersey. When she goes down the long, wide stairs to the PATH train, thousands of people are streaming up. At night, on the return trip, they are stampeding down.
"It tires you," Ms. Norwood said. "It's more up and down stairs and more shoving. It's a lot of shoving. When I'm going down the steps to go to New Jersey, you got that whole mass of people going into New York, and we're dodging each other."
While Ms. Norwood is being jostled as she goes against the flow on the stairway, Sue Vander Schans, 40, a marketing service manager for the entertainment division of Cassio, the electronics manufacturer in Dover, is hurtling westward on Interstate 80, slowing down for frequent bottlenecks on the 65-mile trip, which takes more than an hour. For five years she spent a total of four hours each day commuting to a different job in New Jersey until she quit so she could "regroup my brain cells."
"Traffic has been getting worse over the years as people have moved farther and farther west," said Ms. Vander Schans, who moved to Pennsylvania from Rockaway 15 years ago. "There's a kind of trade-off when you talk about the wear and tear on the car, the time spent behind the wheel. "You can't put a price on that and sometimes your quality of life is diminished. If you put in long hours you get home in time to have a peanut butter and jelly sandwich and then go to bed and start all over again."
For Ken Barbera, however, commuting is a breeze. Mr. Barbera, a 36-year-old public relations account executive for the R&J Group in Parsippany, the first third of the 45-mile commute from his home in Highland Mills, he is traveling on the congested New York State Thruway. But once he gets on Interstate 287, there is little traffic.
"My commute is exactly 45 miles door to door, which is funny, because to get to Times Square is almost identical mileage," Mr. Barbera said. "If there is no accident and the weather's not bad, I usually do it in 50 minutes, whereas driving into Manhattan, it would probably be two hours."
Just how many people commute from out of state these days is difficult to say, since the 2000 Census figures have not been released yet. But tax returns provide some indication. Returns filed by non-residents from 1993 to 1998 increased by more than 30 percent -- from 165,500 to 241,180, the state Department of the Treasury said, while tax revenue rose to $383 million from $196 million in that same period.
About 124,200 people commute from New York State to New Jersey each day -- 77,800 of them from New York City -- according to the state Department of Labor. In addition, about 20,300 travel from Manhattan, 18,290 from Brooklyn, 18,000 from Queens, 11,000 from Staten Island and 10,100 from the Bronx. About 18,280 come from Rockland County, 11,620 from Orange and 7,800 from Westchester.
"I think it's a great thing to be able to work in an environment like New Jersey," said George Dunston, a 31-year-old lawyer who commutes from lower Manhattan to Merck & Company in Whitehouse, which employs 1,500 people from out of state work for the pharmaceutical giant, or about 13 percent of its 11,500 employees.
"There are a lot of good companies out here," Mr. Dunston said. "The working environment is very nice, especially out here in Hunterdon County and the countryside. Yet, I still get the benefit of living in New York City."
Another 108,940 people travel from Pennsylvania, with 21,340 coming from Philadelphia and 40,880 from Bucks County. And about 3,920 people commute come from Delaware and 1,690 from Maryland.
For three years, John Stevenson commuted from lower Bucks County, Pa., to Bristol Myers in Princeton, a 25-minute trip. Last September he began working for Avaya in Basking Ridge, where about 1,200 out-of-state commuters constitute 37 percent of the company's 3,200-member work force.
Mr. Stevenson, 50, chief information officer for internal information systems, bides his time in the car listening to music or the latest John Grisham novel on audiotape, but the ride in general can be wearing.
"It's close to the edge of my tolerance," he said. "And it would be beyond my tolerance if it wasn't for the effectiveness of New Jersey highways."
About 3,000 people took the railroad from New York to New Jersey in 1998, more than double the 1,481 rail commuters in 1990, New Jersey Transit says. Another 3,100 people came by rail from Pennsylvania in 1998, the transit agency said. During the same period, about 5,200 people commuted by bus from New York while 400 peoploe did so from Pennsylvania.
"I actually enjoy being on the train and having a chance to read, grade papers and do The New York Times crossword puzzle," said Susan Fainstein, a 62-year old professor of urban planning at Rutgers University who left her home in New Jersey 15 years ago and moved to Manhattan after her children were grown. "If only I could get rid of the people with cell phones around me."
Since 1995, the number of drivers coming from Pennsylvania has grown considerably, according to figures provided by the Delaware River Joint Toll Bridge Commission, which supervises 20 crossings from Trenton north to the New York State border. The Interstate 78 bridge into Warren County showed a 23 percent increase in commuter traffic since 1995; the I-80 bridge into Warren County an 18 percent increase and the I-95 bridge, called the Scudders Falls Bridge, into Mercer County and the Trenton area more than a six percent increase.
"There's been a tremendous amount of economic development on both sides of the river," said Frank McCartney, executive director of the Delaware River agency.
While the Port Authority does not keep statistics on the number of people who drive across the Hudson River crossings into New Jersey, it knows that about 7,800 people rode the PATH train from the World Trade Center every weekday last year, up from 7,065 in 1999. Ridership also rose slightly at the West 33rd Street station, from 2,124 in 1999 to 2,192 in 2000.
Ferry ridership to New Jersey is also on the rise. On the NY Waterway route between West 38th St in Manhattan and the Lincoln Harbor complex in Weehawken, the number of trips increased from 774 a day in 1998 to 983 in 2000. 
"We're doing 2,000 reverse commuting trips each day now," said Arthur Imperatore Jr., president of NY Waterway. "I think that number will double and triple over the next five years and maybe even quadruple."
Mr. Imperatore can't be far off.
The New Jersey Commerce and Economic Growth Commission reported last November that 120 companies -- representing 17,500 new jobs -- made commitments to locate in New Jersey -- the largest number in one year since the commission began making such surveys in 1984.
Of those 120 companies, 104 are coming from 18 states and 16 from 8 foreign countries to relocate in 17 of New Jersey's 21 counties. Hudson County will benefit the most, with 30 new businesses bringing 8,500 jobs; 21 of them plan to will locate in Jersey City. The largest new employer, Goldman Sachs, the investment company, which is building a 1.3 million square-foot office tower in Jersey City, will employ 2,000 people. The Middlesex-Somerset-Hunterdon County region expects 16 companies to relocate there, providing 1,000 new jobs.
Unless the economy softens considerably, which it has shown some signs of doing lately, the number of workers commuting to New Jersey can be expected to grow as more companies move to waterfront offices in Hudson County or to sprawling suburban campuses like the one Merrill Lynch is building in Hopewell Township.
The Merrill Lynch project involves building 1.25 million square feet of office space -- and has the potenial to grow to 3.5 million square feet. Consequently, the work force can grow to 11,500 employees from 3,500 -- many of whom would come from Pennsylvania -- nearly doubling the township's population of 14,000 each working day.
As for the waterfront, officials of NY Waterway company, which ferries 32,000 commuters a day, have been conferring with prospective business tenants over the last six months to assess where the workers will be coming from.
"One of the major concerns of large employers is to retain the existing work force," Mr. Imperatore said. "And people who have worked in New York all their lives have concerns about coming to New Jersey, mainly how to get there."
For now, the answer is simple. Most people still get to their jobs in New Jersey by car.
Clinton Belk, 47, has been driving to the New Jersey from the Kew Gardens section of Queens since 1993, first to AT&T, then Lucent Technologies and then Avaya, where he is a manager in its corporate assistance center.
A trip over an intricate maze of streets in Queens and Brooklyn leads him into lower Manhattan, the Holland Tunnel and finally Interstate 78, all of which takes him about 75 minutes. Coming back takes two hours, though he said his commute was relatively easy.
"I like the idea of working in the suburbs and living in the city," said Mr. Belk. "I can manage my time a little better. I'm not at the mercy of the transit system."
Even though he has found New Jersey to be comfortable, he said he had never considered moving because he was content with his rent-stablized cooperative, where he has lived for 20 years -- that is, until the Port Authority announced its toll and fare increases.
"It's an additional cost that's going to have to be factored into the rest of the cost of commuting," Mr. Belk lamented. "It would make me consider moving to New Jersey."
Mr. Dunston, who commutes to Merck, has also begun considering a move, and not just because of the toll increase. "I think the problem of living in New York and working out here is that during the week, I really can't get anything done in the city," he said, "so I have to plan that I run all my errands on the weekends."
He added: "I have thought about moving to New Jersey. In fact I was looking at an apartment in New Jersey just this past weekend. I think now I'm ready. But it has to be fairly close to New York."
Someone who made the move is Burke Stinson, a senior public relations director for AT&T in Basking Ridge, where 2,000 of the company's 22,000 employees come from out of state.
In the early 1980's the 59-year-old Mr. Stinson drove to American Bell in Morristown from Greenwich Village, a relatively easy drive coming in but much longer going home.
"I knew it was time for me to move to New Jersey," he said, "when some thick-necked guy in a big car touched my rear bumper and then proceeded to push me toward the toll booth because I was leaving too much space between me and the car in front of me.
"He did it again, and he did again," Mr. Stinson went on with some disbelief. "And I thought, 'What am I doing here with all this traffic and this attittude of battling passenger cars and minor road rage and panel truck drivers with bizarre habits? Why don't I just get out of New York and move to New Jersey?' 
"Besides," he concluded, "it took me anywhere from an hour-and-a-half to two hours coming and going -- depending on whether guys were pushing me."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 18, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about an increase in the number of workers commuting to New Jersey from neighboring states misspelled the name of an electronics manufacturer in Dover. It is Casio, not Cassio.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sue Vander Schans, top left, drives to Dover from East Stroudsburg, Pa. For many, the transportation of choice is the ferry, top, which docks in Weehawken. About 65,000 people ride the PATH train every day, many of whom, like Debbie Norwood, above right, get off at Exchange Place in Jersey City, above left. (Photographs by Frances Roberts and Nancy Wegard, top left, for The New York Times)(pg. 1); New Jersey-bound commuters head to PATH trains at the World Trade Center, above. Ken Barbera, left, has a 45-mile commute from Highland Mills, N.Y. Others ferry across the Hudson, where some workers get off at Weehawken's Lincoln Harbor. (Jim Simpson/The New York Times); (Photographs by Nancy Wegard, above, and Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 8) Chart: "Commuting to New Jersey: Who's on the Other Side of the Median"Commuters arrive by car, bus, train, ferry and in some cases helicopter from as far away as Maryland -- adding to the congestion on highways and straining mass transit -- to take advantage of the job opportunities in the industries that prospered in last decade. REVERSE COMMUTERS TO NEW JERSEY 1990 CensusMARYLAND: 1,693 -- 1%DELAWARE: 3,926 -- 2%PENNSYLVANIA: 108,943 -- 42%ALL OTHERS: 16,768 -- 7%NEW YORK STATE: 124,200 -- 48% Total workers in New Jersey: 3,622,644Total reverse commuters to New Jersey: 255,530 REVERSE COMMUTERS TO NEW JERSEY AND THEIR TAX RETURNSNumber of tax returns filed by non-residents: 1993 -- 165,536Number of tax returns filed by non-residents: 1998 -- 241,180 Total tax revenue recieved from non-residents: 1993 -- $196 millionTotal tax revenue recieved from non-residents: 1998 -- $383(Source: New Jersey Department of Labor State Data Center)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (90%); SUBURBS (89%); TRAINS (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (77%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); CENSUS (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (67%); PORT AUTHORITIES (55%); EMPTY NESTERS (50%) LABOR; COMMUTING; TRANSPORTATION 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (71%)

PERSON: JAMES, GEORGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); DOVER, DE, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK CITY; PENNSYLVANIA

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



270 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: Hundreds of Homes Rise at Ex-Air Base in Bay Area 

BYLINE:  By MORRIS NEWMAN 

DATELINE: NOVATO, Calif. 

 BODY:
THROUGHOUT the Hamilton housing development in this city 29 miles north of San Francisco are reminders that this new community was built on the bones of a former Air Force base.
 A flight-control tower peers over the backyard fence on one street, while a row of immense aircraft hangars, aligned in military precision, stand on the other side of a quiet, two-lane road from a row of wood-and-stucco houses. Several handsome Mission-style buildings of concrete and tile, including a chapel, an old fire station, an officer's club and a commissary, remain where they were built in the 1930's and 1940's. 
 Hamilton Field is now simply Hamilton, a planned 950-home residential community that has been under construction since 1997 and completed its first phase of 500 homes in December. Hamilton is unusual among closed military bases for being redeveloped largely as a residential neighborhood. Many bases are isolated, lacking in natural beauty and heavily contaminated, none of which is conducive to home building. 
Marin County appeals to home buyers both for its convenient access to San Francisco and its semirural setting of rolling hills, which contrasts sharply with the density and tumult of the big city. Marin is also a militantly slow-growth community and the difficulty of home building there has created scarcity and rising housing values.
Marin County, in fact, was the most expensive housing market in the country for much of the 1990's, prior to the ascent of Silicon Valley. The median price of an existing house in Marin County in 2000 was $530,000, while the median price in Hamilton was $396,000, according to Bay Area Real Estate Systems Inc.
The Hamilton housing development, which has 480 acres, was redeveloped as a housing subdivision by the New Hamilton Partnership, made up of the Martin Group of San Francisco, the Pacific Union Company of San Francisco and Goldman Sachs. The partnership has sold lots to several builders, including Shea Homes of Livermore, Calif.; the O'Brien Group of San Mateo, Calif.; Taylor Woodrow of London; Hamilton Park L.L.C. of San Francisco; and Greystone Homes, a unit of the Lennar Corporation of Miami.
Originally, the first group of homes offered for sale at Hamilton in 1998 were priced from $260,000 to $700,000; those prices now range from $400,000 to more than $1 million.
The availability of new homes in Marin County was a selling point for Diane and Brian McKone, who paid $510,000 in 1998 for a 3,000-square-foot house with four bedrooms and two bathrooms. The builder was the O'Brien Group. 
"It's very difficult to buy a home in Marin County," Mrs. McKone said. "Every home we were seeing was a major fixer-upper that had to be torn down, and we did not have it in us to do that."
MRS. McKone, 37, a homemaker, and her husband, Brian, 40, a medical consultant, and their two sons moved from San Francisco into Hamilton in mid-1999 in search of a more "kid friendly" environment.
The early history of the 2,200-acre Air Force base formerly known as Hamilton Field involved a game of musical chairs among different branches of the military. The Army acquired the bucolic site in 1929 and built many of the concrete structures that survive until now. Several years later, the Navy took control of part of the base.
At its height, in World War II, 20,000 servicemen lived at the Hamilton, which was known as one of the most desirable Army Air Corps bases because of the mild weather and well-built housing.
In 1948, Hamilton became a base for the newly formed United States Air Force, which it remained until it closed in 1976. Shortly after the base was closed, both the Army and Navy returned to control parts it.
Despite the nominal military presence at Hamilton, much of the base was empty and growing increasingly dilapidated. Eager to redevelop the base, the Novato City Council approved a proposal in 1988 from two local developers to build 3,550 homes and four million square feet of commercial space on the Army property.
Approval of the ambitious project jolted Novato, a city of 49,000 where only a few hundred homes are built annually. Novato voters rejected the plan in a 1989 referendum, and the original developers subsequently sold their development rights to the principals of the New Hamilton Partnership.
During this time, Hamilton's future became an inflamed political issue, and Novato was spending $1 million a year on Hamilton-related matters, either defending a series of lawsuits or holding elections on reuse proposals, according to Roderick J. Wood, the city manager.
Meanwhile, much of Hamilton fell into further disrepair while local residents argued about the base's future. By the early 1990's, "Hamilton was a derelict property," Mr. Wood said. "If it were a private property, the city would have taken a public nuisance action against it."
In the early 1990's, the new owners contacted several of the community groups that had opposed the earlier plan to try to create consensus on a politically acceptable development proposal. "We reached out to all the community groups and the mantra was to balance economic reality with environmental issues," said Peter Palmisano, a partner in the new development partnership.
In 1991, the city made the effort more formal by naming 12 people to a citizen's advisory board. This ad hoc board had a powerful voice in the future of Hamilton because members would vote both on new uses at Hamilton and present their findings to the Novato City Council.
Although the developers had lobbied for 1,400 homes, the advisory group allowed only 1,000. In addition, the group decided that the old runway and airfield would become part of a tidal wetlands restoration project and required the developer to build a levee separating the wetlands from the proposed new housing.
The developers also agreed to convert existing military buildings for senior housing, a homeless shelter and an arts center as well as to create a sanctuary for bats.
With consensus apparently at hand, the developers bought the land from the federal government for $13 million. They soon found they had to make large cash outlays to turn Hamilton into a residential community.
"The cost of redeveloping military bases is far greater than anyone realizes," said Todd Wright, another New Hamilton partner. "The cost of cleaning up the land is high, none of the surviving buildings complies with current building codes, the road and sewer and utilities are dilapidated."
After buying the base, the partners spent $25 million more to neutralize, remove or encapsulate contaminated material in the soil and an additional $27 million to build new sewer lines, roads and other infrastructure in the property. 
THE demand for new housing in Marin County was strong enough so that when the developers began making advance sales in 1998, "we sold 100 homes the first day," Mr. Palmisano recalled, adding that "we never ran an ad."
The housing has been a "fairly resounding success," Mr. Wood said. "While it was a less-than-pleasant process, the end result is something that the community can be proud of."
Mr. Wright, the developer, added, "It took enormous tenacity on the part of the city, as well as the developers, not to give up in the face of the project going to the brink of death once a month for the first three years." 
Novato city officials, in fact, have decided to follow up the success of Hamilton with a new project. In September, the city agreed to acquire 500 acres of the property that the Navy had occupied since the departure of the Air Force and reached an agreement with two builders: Shea Homes and the Centex Corporation of Dallas.
Two-thirds of the 1,200 homes planned on the Navy site will be set aside for low- and moderate-income home renters and buyers, including those 62 and older. The project will double the inventory of housing for very-low-income to moderate-income households in Marin County.
In affluent Novato, to qualify for very-low-income housing, a family of three can earn up to $33,700 annually, while low income goes up to $53,950 and moderate to $80,900.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Houses in Hamilton development, left, with flight-control tower behind them. Above, homes in front of old aircraft hangar. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) Map of California highlighting site of former Hamilton Air Force Base.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (67%) HOUSING; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; HAMILTON FIELD (NOVATO, CALIF) 

COMPANY: LENNAR CORP (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%); TAYLOR WIMPEY PLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW HAMILTON PARTNERSHIP 

TICKER: LEN (NYSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (54%); TW (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (84%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (52%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (52%); SIC1542 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS, OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (52%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (52%)

PERSON: NEWMAN, MORRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (98%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) NOVATO (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



271 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 5; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: Report on New York City Hotels; 
Occupancy Up; Room Rates Too

 BODY:
New York City hotels recorded another banner year in 2000, setting records in occupancy and average room rates. This year, according to the forecast by PKF Consulting, the hospitality consulting firm, occupancy rates will weaken slightly, while room rates will increase at a slower pace than last year. 
 In the almost 100 Manhattan hotels sampled by PKF Consulting, occupancy rose to 84.6 percent last year, the highest annual occupancy rate in more than 50 years. The previous record high was 81.2 percent in 1999. 
 Average daily room rates last year increased to $237.16, a rise of 7.5 percent over 1999 rates.
Yet not all the numbers in the report were higher. For example, although occupancy last December rose to 77.9 percent, up from 75.8 percent in December 1999, average daily room rates actually decreased 2.6 percent for the month of December 2000 compared with December 1999. Slight as the decrease was, it was the first such decrease in New York hotel room rates in eight years. 
"Mixed results like these were not unexpected," said John A. Fox, the head of PKF Consulting's New York practice. "During the first three quarters of 2000 the city saw unparalleled levels of both rate and occupancy, a very difficult trend to maintain for a sustained period." 
He added that as the city begins to absorb nearly 3,000 new rooms that opened last year, and as the economy decelerates, these mixed results will probably continue. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AVERAGE DAILY ROOM RATES (90%); TRENDS (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%) HOTELS AND MOTELS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: PKF CONSULTING 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



272 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: CITIES; 
Trouble Finds East Orange, Again

BYLINE:  By STEVE STRUNSKY 

DATELINE: EAST ORANGE 

 BODY:
These days, the police department is finding itself in a familiar place: turmoil. It is not difficult to see why.
 The chief of police in this Essex County community of 75,000 mostly black and Hispanic residents got into an altercation with a city attorney -- at a meeting of the East Orange Police Commission, no less -- and is facing simple assault charges. The chief of the 280-member police force, Charles Grimes, could very well end up being dismissed, and for now he is back at work after being suspeneded, with pay, for two weeks. 
 Mr. Grimes and prosecutors declined to discuss what took place during the meeting. But it will surely spill out at the trial, scheduled for April 5 in State Superior Court in Newark, if not before then.
And when the smoke finally clears, this latest incident could infect everything from the June mayoral primary to labor relations with the police and fire unions, whose members had already been working under expired contracts since June 1999.
In fact, it has already begun to spread.
Members of the police force and fire department, city councilmen -- along with the Rev. Al Sharpton -- demonstrated in support of Chief Grimes on Feb. 2 in front of City Hall, right under the window of Mayor Robert L. Bowser, who was criticized by protesters for suspending the chief on Jan. 16 for what he called a cooling-off period.
"You're talking about a chief that's brought enemies to the table, and made allies," said DeLacy Davis, a police officer and spokesman for the East Orange Police Coalition, an organization formed from several police groups in the aftermath of the chief's suspension.
This is not the kind of attention this troubled town needs as it tries to regain its financial footing after years of fiscal decay and failure to foster economic development in an era of growth.
In September 1999, the state seized control of the city's finances after it experienced its second consecutive deficit of at least 4 percent of the tax levy.
The incident has also dredged up memories of a dispute involving Mr. Grimes's two predecessors -- Richard C. Wright, a white man who became chief in 1998 under the terms of a settlement of a reverse discrimination suit, and Harry Harmon, a black man who was appointed instead of Mr. Wright in 1990 by e former Mayor Cardell Cooper. Mr. Harmon had scored lower than Mr. Wright on the civil service exam.
Chief Grimes is, by many accounts, a popular and conciliatory leader, and his appointment by Mayor Bowser after Chief Wright retired in December 1999 was welcomed by many in the department. Morale had been sagging because of the shakeup in leadership as well as Chief Wright's effort to put more officers on patrol.
Now officers say the current troubles facing Chief Grimes -- along with a police building that is crumbling -- have once again sent morale plunging. 
Add to that the delicate issue of race. The charges against Chief Grimes, who is black, were brought by the office of Prosecutor Donald C. Campolo, who is white, and whose assistant handling the case, Paul Bradley, is also white.
Some of the demonstrators outside city hall complained of a double standard, saying that Chief Wright, who is white, was neither criminally charged nor suspended after he was accused of trying to run over a black officer, Paul Davis, in 1999.
"Let us be clear, that racial profiling is not only on the New Jersey highways, it is in City Hall," Mr. Sharpton said during the protest. 
But Mr. Bradley denied that race played a role in the investigation of either the current or the former police chief. He said there were several witnesses -- and an audio tape -- in the case of Mr. Grimes, while there was little evidence with which to charge Mr. Wright.
For now, Mr. Bowser -- who has declined to indicate whether he will seek a second four-year term -- says his political opponents are trying to capitalize on the Grimes incident.
Indeed, one councilman who has announced his candidacy for mayor, Dwight Saunders, was not too far from Mr. Sharpton at the city hall rally on Feb. 2.
Despite the recent controversy, all is not so bleak in East Orange. 
Last week, Ulrich Steinberg, director of the state Division of Local Government Services, said local control of the city's finances may be restored by the fall after cuts in spending and increases in tax revenue moved the city from a $10.4 million deficit in June 1999 to a surplus of $1.6 million a year later.
There are other signs of improvement. The city recently demolished the Ormont Theater to make way for a pharmacy and convenience store, and the first phase of the long-awaited Brick Church retail and residential complex is being developed. In addition, the planning board has approved the first apartment building in 30 years -- with 60 units -- that will seek market rates. And improvements along Main Street are being developed.
Still, Mayor Bowser and others fear that further advances may be endangered by the kind of controversy that is now swirling. It is difficult to find consensus among the 10 members of the city council.
"It is quite complicated and really makes it difficult for an administration to get its initiatives passed," Mr. Steinberg said. "And the personalities just complicate things even further."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A rally earlier this month at East Orange City Hall for Charles Grimes, the police chief, who was suspended by Mayor Robert L. Boswer after Mr. Grimes had an altercation with a city attorney. (Dith Pran/The New York Times) Map of New Jersey highlighting East Orange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (94%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); MAYORS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); CITIES (77%); MISDEMEANORS (76%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (76%); STRIKES (75%); LAWYERS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); MISCONDUCT (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); TAX LAW (69%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (68%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) POLICE; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; ASSAULTS 

PERSON: AL SHARPTON (50%) GRIMES, CHARLES (POLICE CHIEF); STRUNSKY, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) EAST ORANGE (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



273 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: THEATER; 
Questions Linger For Crossroads

BYLINE:  By JILL P. CAPUZZO 

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
The Crossroads Theater Company bought some time last week, but two crucial questions remain: Did it buy enough time? Did it get enough money?
 While members of the New Jersey State Council on the Arts and the theater's president spoke optimistically about the latest infusion of hope, the reality was harsher. 
 A major corporate contributor, a foundation and even the city of New Brunswick, home to the troubled theater, said they were not yet ready to open their wallets.
Seven months after withholding funds from Crossroads Theater Company, the New Jersey State Council on the Arts came around last week and offered the once pre-eminent black theater $100,000, less than a third of the amount originally set aside for it, and named a caretaker for the funds to ensure the grant money was properly spent. 
And while the council approved the funds during its monthly meeting at the Newark Museum, it said it would go to the New Jersey Theater Alliance, a professional theater service organization, to oversee the funds.
In addition, the grant is contingent upon the state releasing another $500,000 in emergency aid to the theater, which can be used to begin paying off the $2 million debt Crossroads has accrued in recent years.
The theater, which has been closed since it canceled its season in September, has until March 2 to provide the Secretary of State additional documentation to justify that appropriation.
The arts council money is earmarked for hiring professional staff, specifically a managing director, for whom a search is already underway, said the theater's board president, Rhinold Lamar Ponder, followed by an interim artistic director.
With the prospect of paying two executive salaries, the grant money will not go far, but Mr. Ponder said: "The arts council's grant is worth far more than $100,000. There are many funders who have said they will be responsive after the state is responsive."
While encouraged by the council's tardy vote of confidence, several of Crossroads' major contributors said that more evidence was needed to convince them that the theater could be a viable operation once again.
"Really nothing's changed," said Michael Bzdak, director of corporate contributions at Johnson & Johnson.
Mr. Bzdak said his company, which had given hundreds of thousands of dollars to Crossroads over the years, was waiting to learn the status of the $500,000 in emergency funds, which he described as "important to everyone."
David Grant, executive director of the Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation, described the council's action as "certainly a good sign," but he cautioned that "the question remains: Is the state's support sufficient that the theater can now make its case to a whole range of funders to contribute?"
As far as his organization was concerned, Mr. Grant said it had set criteria for weighing its grant applicants, including fiscal soundness, able management and quality work, none of which were currently present at Crossroads.
"It would be nice to be able to say Dodge is ready to jump back in," said Mr. Grant. "It's not that we're not hopeful, but we don't know enough to say more than that right now. We see ourselves ready as we've always been to support an up-and-running Crossroads Theater. It would be hard to call Crossroads up and running at this point."
Even in New Brunswick, where Crossroads has been a focal point of a cultural revitalization over the last two decades, a wait-and-see attitude prevailed.
The city's director of planning and economic development, Glenn Patterson, said, "We have told Crossroads all along we were willing to assist them financially, but like the state, we want to see that there is a feasible plan for getting Crossroads back on its feet."
Mr. Patterson added: "We said we want to see a plan for long-term viability. We'd like some assurance that we're not going to give them hundreds of thousands of dollars and have them use it to pay off debt, only to find themselves in the same situation a year later."
Still, from the handshakes and congratulations Mr. Ponder received after last week's meeting, it appeared that there would be one more chance, as the chairman of the Arts Council, Leonard M. Fisher, described it, "for the phoenix to rise anew."
Funneling the grant money through the New Jersey Theater Alliance is not just a way to ensure that qualified professionals are hired and salaries and taxes are paid. It also serves as protection for the theater, preventing a rush of creditors from seeking a portion of that money to settle unpaid debts, Mr. Ponder said.
The Crossroads board, which was told of their new partnership only on the morning the grant was awarded, was expected to sit down with members of the Theater Alliance shortly to hammer out how the relationship will work. Laura Aden, executive director of the alliance, described her organization as "the fiscal agent" for Crossroads, saying that in addition to making monthly reports to the arts council, she expected to play a crucial role in helping the theater identify and hire a much-needed executive staff. 
"I think they're happy we're there," said Ms. Aden, whose group played a similar role for Dance New Jersey during its start-up four years ago, and for the now defunct South Jersey Regional Theater when it faced a similar reorganization 10 years ago. "We're familiar with filing financial reports. We know how to help them get the right people to the table in a hiring search."
She called the arts council's unanimous vote to grant funds to Crossroads "the Good Housekeeping seal of approval" and praised the current board members for turning the arts council's posture around.
"There's a very high level of confidence in the commitment and energy of this board," she said. "They've really done a lot and are to be commended."
The grant awarded last week was for the current fiscal year, through June 30. The theater could apply for more state funds for the 2001-02 year, and although that application deadline is Feb. 23, a spokeswoman for the Arts Council, Nina Stack, said Crossroads would be viewed as a "special circumstance in terms of deadlines."
A full season next year is already out of the question for Crossroads, but Mr. Ponder said, "We hope to at least present limited high-quality productions during the 2001-02 season" and some fund-raising performances as early as this summer. 
As for the theater's subscribers, many of whom paid for a season of tickets last year and never got to see a single play, Mr. Ponder said the board was "in the process of reaching out to discuss our position with them."
"We are developing plans which will include a special show of appreciation for our subscribers," he said. "We will be communicating very soon with them about what kind of assistance we need to move forward."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Though the state announced a grant of $100,000 to Crossroads Theater, the city of New Brunswick, its home, is not yet ready to give it money. (Jill C. Becker for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (94%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUDGETS (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (72%); APPROVALS (68%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%) THEATER; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (63%)

ORGANIZATION: CROSSROADS THEATER COMPANY; JOHNSON & JOHNSON INC 

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (63%)

PERSON: CAPUZZO, JILL P 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW BRUNSWICK (NJ); NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



274 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF; 
Hamptons Home Prices Continue Their Surge

BYLINE:  By Stewart Ain 

 BODY:
Fueled by a booming economy, the price of homes in the Hamptons soared 44 percent last year, and for the second straight year the sales of single-family homes topped 2,700 -- about 35 percent higher than normal, according to a survey by the East Hampton real estate brokerage firm Cook Pony Farm.
 "I've been doing this 20 years, and I've never seen the market conditions we saw in 1999 and 2000," said Judi Desiderio, the firm's vice president. "Both years have been banner years for appreciation and sales transactions." 
 She said the average price of a home in the Hamptons, which comprises 11 communities on Long Island's South Fork, was now $669,000, up from $464,000 a year earlier. The number of homes that sold for $2 million and more increased from 89 to 151, or 70 percent. The number that sold for between $1 million and $1.9 million jumped from 155 to 221, or 43 percent. Homes in the $500,000 to $999,000 range increased from 447 to 684, or 53 percent, but those sold for less than $500,000 dropped from 2,010 to 1,658, or 17 percent.
"We've had 10 consecutive years of economic growth countrywide and, all different sectors of business have made money in the last five years," Ms. Desiderio said. "Our customer base is from Manhattan and Wall Street, and when they are doing well, we do very, very well."
Jack Hangen, the owner of Agawam Realty in Southampton Village, which covers a large part of the Hamptons, agreed that 2000 was the "strongest it's ever been in terms of dollar volume, because escalating prices are going to bring that figure up." Ms. Desiderio put that figure at $1.82 billion, up from $1.25 billion in 1999.
The home price boom is not confined to the Hamptons. The Long Island Board of Realtors said the average price of homes increased about 12 percent last year in Nassau, Suffolk and Queens Counties, rising from $215,395 in 1999 to $242,379. The greatest increase was in Suffolk -- excluding the Hamptons -- where the price of homes jumped 16 percent. In Nassau, the price rise was 10 percent and in Queens 8 percent. Stewart Ain

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%) HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SALES 

ORGANIZATION: COOK PONY FARM (CO) 

PERSON: AIN, STEWART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) HAMPTONS, THE (NY)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



275 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
BalancingLong-Term Wants And Needs

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
SORRY to spoil the party. But the euphoria about the growing federal budget surplus and the opportunities it creates for tax cuts, debt reduction and additional money for most everything from school lunches to cruise missiles, is obscuring a depressing reality.
 Even if the most optimistic fiscal projections prove true, the surplus will be gone within 20 years, leaving the government -- and, by extension, taxpayers -- facing intense financial pressure. As the 76 million baby boomers grow old and members of the previous generation live longer, the costs of their government-provided retirement and health benefits will surge, threatening to plunge Washington back into a long period of budget deficits and rising debt. 
 With Democrats and Republicans focused on how to divide today's surplus, David M. Walker, the head of the General Accounting Office, tried last week to persuade Congress to take the long view before rushing into any decisions that could have serious economic consequences for decades.
"Without a change in entitlement programs, demographics will overwhelm the surplus and drive us back into escalating deficits and debt," Mr. Walker, whose agency is the nonpartisan auditing arm of Congress, told the Senate Budget Committee. "The question before this Congress is how to balance today's wants and needs against our long-term challenges."
Those long-term challenges are most visible in the Social Security and Medicare systems. Because the portion of the population in retirement will swell in the next few decades, both programs face insolvency unless benefits are cut or revenues are increased. 
The Congressional Budget Office estimated last year that the amount of money needed to fully finance those two programs, plus Medicaid, would jump to 16.7 percent of gross domestic product in 2040, from 7.5 percent now. If the government made all those payments, the national debt, which is expected to fall from 34 percent of gross domestic product today to zero in a decade or so, would balloon by 2040 to 62 percent, a level not seen since immediately after World War II.
The good news is that the increase in the projected surplus over 10 years provides a new opportunity to make a down payment on the problem, especially when it comes to Social Security.
In its most recent projection, the budget office said last month that the total surplus over the next 10 years should be $5.6 trillion. Of that, $2.5 trillion would come from Social Security. By agreement of Republicans and Democrats, that $2.5 trillion is off limits for tax cuts or new spending, and instead will go toward reducing the $3.4 trillion in national debt held by the public. The remainder of the surplus, $3.1 trillion, is up for grabs.
Even if the two parties use that $3.1 trillion on tax cuts and new spending, the government will effectively run out of debt to pay back within the decade. That is because some of the debt, like savings bonds and 30-year Treasury bonds, either cannot be redeemed before maturity or would be prohibitively expensive to redeem early.
Under one credible path set out by the budget office, the government could find itself with an extra $133 billion in 2010 even after paying off all the redeemable debt and spending the entire non-Social Security surplus. The figure in 2011 would be $434 billion.
If Congress and the Bush administration decided to use the entire non-Social Security surplus for debt reduction, the government would be out of redeemable debt and awash in unused surpluses within five years.
What would the government do with the excess money? The government cannot simply tuck it into a bank account or under a mattress. Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, told Congress last month that the government would have little choice but to start buying up stocks and corporate bonds on Wall Street.
"Private asset accumulation may be forced upon us well short of reaching zero debt," Mr. Greenspan said last month. 
Therein lies an opportunity for Social Security. Republicans, including President Bush, want to create private investment accounts within Social Security, but have had trouble figuring how to pay for them. The money from the surplus would be a start.
Most Democrats are opposed to privatizing Social Security, but are open to the idea of having the Social Security system itself invest in the stock market. Even Mr. Greenspan, who has always opposed allowing the government to become a big buyer and seller on Wall Street, appeared willing to consider having the Social Security trust fund buy stocks and bonds for a limited time to build its reserves for the day when the baby boomers begin drawing retirement benefits.
Either way, the two parties in Congress and Mr. Bush might want to think ahead before passing out party favors this year.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows the federal budget surplus or deficit projections as a percentage of gross domestic product. (Source: Congressional Budget Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); BABY BOOMERS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); BONDS (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); MEDICAID (71%); ACCOUNTING (68%); WORLD WAR II (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; NATIONAL DEBT (US) 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%)

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



276 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: COPING; 
When Jailing Batterers Won't Save Families

BYLINE:  By FELICIA R. LEE 

 BODY:
SHE'S a black woman who refuses to call the police when her husband hits her because she believes the legal system is racist.
 She's an upper-middle-class woman who likes her social status and believes her marriage is good except for the few times a year her husband drinks and slaps her around. So she tells the police and anyone who asks that things are O.K. 
 She's a lesbian whose violent partner is an illegal immigrant. The courts are the last place she wants to go when things get bad between them, even in front of her partner's children. 
The stories come from lawyers, social workers, friends. There is no stereotypical "battered woman" or domestic violence victim. While feminists and others successfully agitated for decades to criminalize a syndrome that was once seen as purely a shameful personal problem, there is a growing public debate about how much the law can do to stop domestic violence and how effective the laws that exist have been.
It's not merely an academic exercise. A 1994 New York State law that mandated arrests in some domestic violence cases is set to expire this July, and many want to review how well it has worked.
At a recent conference on domestic violence at New York University, sponsored by the university and the Brooklyn district attorney's office, some lawyers and social workers said that with domestic violence, the legal system is just a starting point.
"There was a simple answer," Gerald Landsberg, the director of the Institute Against Violence at New York University's Shirley M. Ehrenkranz School of Social Work, said during a break. "You arrest the person and it's going to solve the problem. We're finding out it's not that simple. Women want to preserve the family, and that help is not available."
A woman named Jean, whose husband is in prison for trying to kill her, said during a conference break that she spent 10 years trying to keep her family together because she believed that the violence was her fault. The only reason she helped prosecute her husband, she said, was that she found emotional as well as legal support at the Brooklyn district attorney's office.
Before, she did not see herself as a victim and would have advised a friend in her situation to leave or hit the guy back. Then it happened to her, and she saw that it was not so easy.
Perhaps that is why our eyes glaze over when we see those public service advertisements against domestic violence. Few will say they are for it. Each individual case is composed of conflicting parts of fear, hope and shame, making solutions more complicated than calling a telephone number or the police, except in the most egregious, clear-cut cases. And how often are things between intimate partners clear-cut?
No one wants to return to when people were told to work it out, and jail was not an option. But Linda G. Mills, a researcher and professor at the N.Y.U. law school, emphasized that domestic violence should be looked at in the context of race, economic status and religious and cultural beliefs. Ms. Mills participated in the conference.
There is anecdotal evidence, for example, that some African-American men become more violent toward their partners if they are arrested for domestic violence, she said, because of historic conflicts between the police and blacks. Immigrant families also tend to be wary of involving the police because of immigration status issues, she said.
Ms. Mills said many of the old feminist shibboleths about passive victims with low self-esteem needed to be re-examined.
"It's often women's strength that makes them stay," she said. She said sometimes a man does love a woman he beats and can acknowledge that he has a problem. Sometimes, except for the beatings, the relationship is good.
One continuing study of domestic violence homicides in Brooklyn found that of 17 "intimate partner" homicides in 1999, in only 3 cases had the batterer ever been arrested.
Lisa C. Smith, the Brooklyn Law School professor who conducted the study presented at the conference, said the legal system was perhaps not the first place to intervene to help domestic violence victims.
"In a lot of the cases there was unreported, significant emotional abuse and harassment, and physical abuse that doesn't rise to the level of a crime," Ms. Smith said. She mentioned examples like a man who throws food on the floor or makes threats.
"'We need even more outreach," Ms. Smith continued. "We need a quiet place where people can go to report this and to know there are many options. I don't think that message is out there." 
Wanda Lucibello, chief of the Special Victims Division in the Brooklyn district attorney's office, said more studies were needed to examine where the law and social needs intersect.
But, she said, there has been a remarkable increase in felony indictments for domestic violence since 1994, sometimes leaping by 160 percent from one year to the next. No one, women, children or batterers, can be helped until they are identified and in the system, she said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mark Matcho) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (95%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (90%); FAMILY (90%); LAWYERS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); FAMILY LAW (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); CHILDREN (74%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); SPONSORSHIP (70%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (69%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (55%) DOMESTIC VIOLENCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: LEE, FELICIA R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



277 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: OFF THE SHELF; 
A Marriage of Business and Businesswoman

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
THERE is something inherently self-laudatory in the notion of businesspeople offering their wisdom in books about their own successes. Chief executives, after all, are seldom wallflowers in a world that runs to the rules of the jungle.
 But even by those standards, the title of Anita Roddick's "Business as Unusual: The Triumph of Anita Roddick" should be enough to warn potential readers that this book, by the co-founder of the Body Shop cosmetics chain, may reach new levels of self-promotion and selective vision. 
 Of course, Ms. Roddick has much to be proud of. Since its days as a kitchen-table start-up in 1976, the Body Shop, based in Littlehampton, England, has become a global chain of some 1,800 stores. Unlike her husband, T. Gordon Roddick, the co-chairman, Ms. Roddick has achieved a rare public status, not only by breaking the glass ceiling of big business but also by projecting herself as a pioneering champion of animal rights, corporate responsibility, ecological correctness and oppressed peoples. 
And, arguably, it is the sheer energy of Ms. Roddick's own personality -- "frenetic and self-righteous," as she quotes an unidentified "captain of industry" as describing her -- that has driven the creation of an iconoclastic brand.
Mix in more worldly considerations -- like the bottom line and the stock market -- and the "triumph" of the book's title begins to look more ambiguous. Since the mid-1990's, the company has been a market laggard. Its venture into the rough-and-tumble world of retailing in the United States was a disaster (an episode that provides one of the narrative's few mea culpas). In 1998, Ms. Roddick stepped down as chief executive, saying that her replacement by Patrick Gournay, from the French food group Danone, was voluntary.
And even the book's publication by Thorsons, an imprint of HarperCollins, coincides with a warning that profits in the current financial year will be 10 to 15 percent lower than forecast. That announcement, on Jan. 12, set off a 25 percent decline in the Body Shop's share price -- the biggest one-day drop in eight years.
So where is the triumph? Ms. Roddick provides an answer with characteristic vigor."This book is more than a chronicle of a decade at the Body Shop, more than a condensed manual for the wannabe business radical," she writes. "It is also about one individual's attempt to marry the often impersonal wants of a successful business with the very personal needs of a successful business person. Despite the enormous constraints of a global company, despite the general intractability of life, I need to find new ways to push the limits of business, to change its language, to make it a force for positive change. That's what I mean by business as unusual."
Indeed, the book goes further in defining the benchmarks of a new approach to business, built on moral values. "The shaping force for us from the start has not been our products, but our principles," she says.
In light of the profit warning, that may be just as well. But there is, of course, a more serious aspect to this moral self-promotion.
The Body Shop has participated in contentious campaigns, and Ms. Roddick chronicles them with enthusiasm -- from one against Royal Dutch/Shell's oil operations in Nigeria to her antiwar sign-up campaign during the Persian Gulf war.
But since the end of the cold war ushered in globalization and an unparalleled rise of corporate power, a far broader discussion is under way about the relationship of business and ethical values. As a pioneering statement, Ms. Roddick's book is five years late, because its conclusions have already moved to the center of the debate between multinational corporations like Shell or De Beers and the not-for-profit advocacy groups that increasingly cast themselves as a global conscience.
"You can't stop business from going global, but you can make it listen to the responsibilities that go with jumping onto the globalization bandwagon," the book says. Those are hardly groundbreaking views.
INDEED, after the demonstrations against the World Trade Organization in Seattle and the International Monetary Fund in Prague, those views have largely been taken on board by both international institutions and corporations -- a triumph in itself for the street protests that Ms. Roddick chronicles so enthusiastically in the opening pages.
Perhaps it is too much to expect an activist like Ms. Roddick to broaden the debate beyond her own perspective, by inquiring more deeply into the nature, credentials and myriad agendas of the protesters.
But it is still disappointing that her account of the 1999 Seattle protests, in which she participated as a speaker and demonstrator, offers no considered insight into the origins and long-range objectives of her fellow protesters. Neither does the book really come to grips with the documented presence of violence-prone people among the protesters she depicts in uniformly heroic terms.
As she points out, the nongovernmental organizations, or N.G.O.'s, that fueled the protests have achieved undreamed-of power. "One question from Greenpeace by fax to a food manufacturer in 1999 was enough for them to take GM ingredients out of baby food," she writes, referring to genetically modified foods.
So far so good. But to judge from debates this year at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland -- itself a target of protest -- businesses also have valid questions about these putative interlocutors: Who defines or grants their mandate? Where is the transparency that such groups demand from corporations? Ms. Roddick's analysis appears to yield few answers, beyond the idea that citizen power is its own validator.
"Walking out of a meeting in downtown Seattle," she writes, "I get this wonderful feeling of citizen power, the feeling that millions and billions of people not represented by the W.T.O. -- the workers, the farmers, the students, the indigenous peoples, the economically weaker groups -- have a voice in the N.G.O.'s." Her experience in Seattle, she says, "legitimizes the stand I have been making and the platform I have stood on for more than 15 years -- that big business has to change."
HER American experiences have not all been so inspiring. The Body Shop's costly venture into American retailing began auspiciously in the early 1990's, with sales and profits soaring. But by 1994, a serious decline had set in. The Body Shop, Ms. Roddick recalls, "just got everything wrong." Competition was ferocious from rivals like Bath & Body Works, and cultural differences were enormous. And "we never understood the malls or the mall mentality," she says.
So what should have been done differently? "I think my mistake in the United States was that I didn't interfere enough," she said.
These days, Ms. Roddick's position as co-chairman is somewhat ambiguous. By and large, the British press has interpreted her relinquishment of day-to-day management as an ouster. Ms. Roddick takes a different view -- possibly sending a message not so much to her readers as to company executives.
"Should I be a renegade, anarchic, loose cannon to stir them all up? Or am I simply getting in the way?" she asks. "I need to constantly ask myself these questions, but the answer I give myself is that my role should be that of agitator. In the years ahead I see my leadership role as being an irritant, a gadfly -- infusing creativity and creating an edge to everything the Body Shop does."
As a gadfly's primer, her book is a good start.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETICS & BEAUTY SUPPLY STORES (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LITERATURE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); WOMEN (70%); COSMETICS (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (69%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; COSMETICS AND TOILETRIES 

COMPANY: DANONE SA (FRANCE) (81%)

ORGANIZATION: BODY SHOP INTERNATIONAL PLC 

TICKER: DNN (BIT) (81%); BN (PAR) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (81%)

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN; RODDICK, ANITA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (56%)

TITLE: BUSINESS AS USUAL: THE TRIUMPH OF ANITA RODDICK (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



278 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NEW YORK UP CLOSE; 
A Poll of One City Reveals A Tale of Two Cities

BYLINE:  By ANDREW FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
The people and what they think has been the central question of New York politics for generations. Last week, Hunter College offered an early look at the results of their second Big Apple Poll, the only multilingual poll in the city devoted to the public's perceptions of the quality of life. 
 Bringing a little science to the sport of divining popular mood, a city polling firm, Schulman, Ronca & Bucuvalas, asked 955 city residents 37 questions in English, Spanish, Mandarin and Cantonese in a telephone survey last October. The issues included work, public schools, vouchers, teacher salaries, bilingual education, race and ethnic relations, safety, the police and life in the city. 
 The drama of the poll results, however, lies not so much in what it says as in who says it. Put simply, people in Staten Island and Manhattan seem to be living in a different city than those in the Bronx and Brooklyn. Queens cuts both ways.
Fissures divided borough residents in their feelings about their schools and their wallets but were widest when it came to safety. For instance, while 83 percent and 84 percent, respectively, of those in Manhattan and Staten Island said they felt secure in their neighborhoods at night, only 54 percent in the Bronx and 60 percent in Brooklyn said the same.
While 60 percent percent of Staten Islanders rated the police favorably, only 32 percent of Brooklynites did so and only 28 percent of Bronx residents.
One revealing education statistic showed that 31 percent of Manhattan residents sent their children to private school while only 10 percent of people in the Bronx did so. Seventy-four percent of Manhattanites don't have any school-age children; the comparable figure in the Bronx is 53 percent.
Manhattan residents more commonly thought that race relations in the city were getting better: 40 percent of the respondents compared to 29 percent and less in the other boroughs. Sixty-one percent of Manhattanites said that New York was generally becoming a better place to live, as against41 percent or less of New Yorkers outside Manhattan.
Prof. William H. Williams, the statistician who oversees the poll, is eagerly awaiting the imminent completion of a new computer center, which will eventually enable Hunter to conduct these surveys quarterly using multilingual student pollsters. More targeted surveys of the city -- one on nutrition and another on banking habits -- are scheduled.
"There are numerous subtleties" to polling, Professor Williams said. "You could write textbooks about it. In fact, I wrote one." ANDREW FRIEDMAN

GRAPHIC: Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: The People Speak"Selected results of the second Hunter College Big Apple Poll, a multilingual survey, conducted in October, about the quality of life in the city. No. 1 issue for New Yorkers: Education (33 percent); Health care (19 percent); Gun control (12 percent). New Yorkers who said their economic condition was worsening: 14 percent. New Yorkers in the first Big Apple poll (March 2000) who said their economic condition was worsening: 9 percent. New Yorkers who said they or a household member had been stopped by the police since November 1999: 11.1 percent. Manhattan residents who felt crime has increased in the past five years: 8 percent. Bronx residents who felt that way: 31 percent. New Yorkers who strongly approve of paying teachers more, even if it meansincreasing taxes: 47 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); MULTILINGUALISM (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (78%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (75%); TRENDS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (71%); STATISTICAL METHOD (71%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (70%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (55%); WAGES & SALARIES (55%); RACE & RACISM (50%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PUBLIC OPINION 

COMPANY: ABT SRBI INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (54%) HUNTER COLLEGE 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, ANDREW 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



279 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/Toyota Sequoia; 
Having Sampled the Local Cuisine, Toyota Bulks Up

BYLINE:  By LEONARD M. APCAR 

 BODY:
WHEN Toyota declared 2000 "the year of the truck and S.U.V.," it wasn't kidding. In 12 months, it has added four pickups and sport utilities to the four it already offered, plus the two utilities from its Lexus division. It is now mounting a full-scale assault on Detroit's stronghold -- the truck market -- on 10 fronts.
 Toyota's biggest tank is the 2001 Sequoia, a new utility sized to satisfy Americans' space cravings. The eight-passenger behemoth is slightly shorter than a Chevrolet Suburban and a bit bigger than a Chevy Tahoe. Its dimensions, in fact, are almost identical to those of the Ford Expedition, and it is bigger than Toyota's own beefy Land Cruiser in every way except price. (At $53,000 and up, the Cruiser is aimed more at the well-heeled Range Rover crowd.) 
 The Expedition came out four years ago when the bigger-is-better trend seemed to have no limits. So now that the party shows signs of winding down, what does Toyota bring to the festivities?
There is a nicely appointed center console with world-class cup holders. (In fact, there are more cup holders than seats.) The V-8 engine is powerful and clean -- it has an ultra-low-emissions rating -- though quite thirsty. There is an optional side-curtain air bag and, oh yes, there's a power window in the rear just like the ones on 1960's station wagons. You can operate that window with a button on the dash, with a key from the liftgate and even with the key fob as you approach the truck carrying packages.
For a wide loader, the steering, acceleration and cornering are pretty nice, and I would bet that over time, given Toyota's reputation for reliability, the Sequoia will be a stranger at the repair shop.
That may be the biggest selling point. There is nothing too fancy about the Sequoia, and not much that is terribly new. But there are drive-it-and-forget-about-it buyers out there who will want it for its dependability, and they will be willing to spend $35,000 for a basic four-wheel-drive model or more than $44,000 for the fanciest version with leather and a power moonroof. The plainest rear-drive model starts at $31,295.
In this era of carlike trucks and trucklike cars, Toyota has a "crossover" wagon in its new Highlander. But the Sequoia is an old-fashioned, high-riding truck -- right down to the automatic shifter on the steering column. In fact, Toyota does not try to hide the fact that this is essentially a full-size Tundra pickup from the front seats forward. Both are built at a plant in Indiana.
The 4.7-liter V-8 is essentially the same one that Toyota offers as an option on the Tundra, and that has drawn praise for its smoothness and power. With 240 horsepower and 315 foot-pounds of torque, it holds its own with the competition, and it accelerated well. But with the Sequoia weighing in at a bulky 5,295 pounds, the fuel economy is no better than that of its equally porcine rivals from Chevy, Ford and Dodge: 14 miles a gallon in town, 17 on the highway.
I also thought the engine was noisy whether accelerating normally or being pushed toward its limits on a dry, quiet highway.
As for handling, the Sequoia was competent and pretty much equal to its domestic competitors. But I never got used to Toyota's very firm suspension; the chassis seemed to produce a lot of hopping motion even on flat roads. Toyota stiffened the Sequoia's frame considerably, compared with the Tundra's, to reduce noise and make the steering more precise. But while some of the stiffness was helpful in controlling the roll and pitch of the body in turns, the ride seemed harsh on the straightaways.
One welcome feature is a skid-control system, like those that had hitherto come mostly on expensive cars. If sensors detect a loss of control, as when a turn is made too sharply, the system automatically applies an individual brake to bring the truck back in line. There is also a four-wheel traction control that responds to a loss of traction by sending power to the wheels that still have grip.
Inside, the Sequoia is pretty much what you'd expect, with front captain's chairs (reasonably comfortable but lacking side support), a bench in the middle row and a three-passenger third row with three shoulder belts and two head restraints. That far-back seat is also split in half to provide seating for one plus extra cargo space.
Access to the rear is afforded by a split middle seat that neatly and easily folds forward, clearing a fairly typical narrow passage. The third row is cramped, as you'd expect. On a day trip from the northern New York suburbs to northwest Connecticut, my 5-foot-6 son sat there and kept part of the middle seat folded down so he could stretch out. My daughter sat off to one side of the middle seat. No one lacked space.
With my wife and I up front, the four of us could have conversations even though we were spread out. Besides the cup holders, there are plenty of storage compartments and armrests, and there are separate rear air-conditioning controls. The top-line Limited model has heated front seats.
What surprised me were a few fine points that Toyota missed. For instance, the digital clock was not tucked into the logically designed instrument panel, or even into the radio. It hid on the lower right side of the center console and was difficult to read.
Also, the full-time four-wheel-drive system is a complicated affair that combines dashboard buttons with a shifter on the center console. If you simply need to move from two-wheel to four-wheel drive in the high range, you merely push a button. But since the system lacks a locking differential, if you want low-range gearing you must stop the vehicle and move the console shifter. Detroit's controls are simpler.
And the Limited test truck, with a sticker price of $44,635, lacked some refinements you'd find elsewhere for the money. The driver's seat couldn't memorize my preferred position, for example. There were no outside lights on the mirrors or running boards to help you get in. The passengers' power-window buttons were not illuminated.
But there was one touch that indicated that the Toyota people were thinking. If you happen to be using the rear wiper when you want to lower the power window in the liftgate -- which would be a pretty odd thing to do -- the wiper stops automatically until the window is where you want it. I haven't seen anyone else try anything like that. Who says the Japanese aren't innovators?

INSIDE TRACK: Late to the party, but turning heads.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Sequoia, Toyota's largest vehicle yet, is named for one of the biggest living things. Based on the Tundra pickup, it is about the size of Ford's Expedition. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (73%) AUTOMOBILES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: TOYOTA MOTOR CO 

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (91%); TM (NYSE) (91%); 7203 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%)

PERSON: APCAR, LEONARD M 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



280 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: OUT THERE: San Francisco; 
The Joy of Joblessness In the Web Wipeout

BYLINE:  By TODD KRIEGER

 BODY:
KEVIN GEORGE, a freelance Internet producer who has been out of work for three months, just returned from a two-and-a-half-week vacation in North Africa, which included a rave-style trance music festival called "Morocco 2001."
 David Bailey, laid off from his job with a technology consulting firm, has been pursuing dreams of training for the Olympic bicycling team. 
 And Charlene St. John, downsized from a 10-hour-a-day job in e-commerce finance, has taken up short-story writing and the guitar. She is adjusting just fine to the lack of structure in her days, she said. "I have two rules: shower by 5 p.m. daily and take the dogs to the ocean every day." 
In this city that was so recently transformed by the dot-com boom, the great e-commerce wipeout (23,100 local Internet workers will get pink slips by the end of next year, according to one study by the University of California at Berkeley) has left a newly minted, newly unemployed leisure class. 
Gone are the all-nighters in offices accessorized with sleeping cots. Common now are languid days in coffee shops, unhurried travel to exotic destinations like Tasmania and evenings out at jazz clubs and theme bars -- which have never been so numerous or popular, many club owners and patrons say.
Perhaps because the recently downsized are still living off severance packages or savings from the fat times, there does not seem to be a great deal of despair over their unemployed status. 
They are turning up at a wave of new clubs like Lord of Balls, a lounge in Japantown with a kitsch hunting-lodge theme; Bliss in Noe Valley, a red-draped lounge that is packed on Monday nights -- unusual for this city; and G, an unexpectedly hip bar in an otherwise quiet neighborhood of multimillion-dollar homes near Pacific Heights.
That's where Ms. St. John, 35, was relaxing the other night. Since being laid off in December, she has found the time for trips to Hawaii, Las Vegas, Vail and Lake Tahoe, all underwritten by her healthy severance package. "With lots of unemployed friends, I have someone to go to lunch with every day, and plenty of excuses to grab a drink or two in the evening," she said. 
John Hurley, G's owner, who also runs a neighborhood restaurant across the street, Garibaldi's, never expected his new place to draw a faster crowd from all over the city; that is indicative, he said, of the upswing in local night life. "After running Garibaldi's for 11 years, I was anticipating the same crowd -- my junior-leaguers and people from the neighborhood," he said. "But having a line out the door? I've had to get a doorman four nights a week." 
Another patron was Mr. George, the unemployed Web producer, who was reclining in front of G's gas fireplace, which features white sand instead of bricks for its floor. With shag pillows and long, low divans, G seems to have sprung from the pages of Wallpaper magazine.
In addition to traveling, Mr. George, 41, said he has found the time for some long-put-off introspection, and has been doing volunteer work for Art Angels, a group that puts artists in touch with patrons willing to help support them. "I have my electric guitar, my drums, my video camera," he said. "I find ways to noodle with my downtime."
Local news articles have documented how soaring rents in the neighborhoods south of Market Street, driven by the arrival of hundreds of Internet companies in recent years, pushed out artists and working-class families. In the wake of the Internet bust, which has disproportionately affected these small e-commerce start-ups, the first signs of a reversal of the tide have appeared. Real estate agencies are reporting a slight weakening in the price of rental apartments. "I guess if there can be any silver lining to the recent downturn, it would be that the artists forced out by the dot-com invasion are returning," Mr. George said. "Everybody's out of work and they're O.K. with that. People are getting back to what they believe in."
At the same time, he acknowledged that the unstructured time he now has is not all carefree. "The downtime is fun, but it can be stressful at the same time," he said. 
Even for new-economy workers who are still employed, the slackening of the frenetic pace in their industry has allowed many, it seems, to pursue more personal, sometimes bohemian interests. 
Gil Silberman, a lawyer whose specialty is emerging high-tech companies, realized a long-held dream when he opened Butterfly, a jazz club, with his wife, Norie. He said his clientele includes many dot-commers who suddenly have time to lift their heads from their computers and groove to be-bop riffs. 
"People have been waiting for the Internet to stumble. The 'I told you so' crowd doesn't want to see technology succeed," Mr. Silberman, 35, said. "There was a moment when everybody could become instantly wealthy, and that moment has passed. That's not to say you don't still have the guy walking around with $100 million in his pocket, but with the market less intense, he has some time to spend on more leisurely pursuits."
The Money, Meaning and Choices Institute in Kentfield, Calif., coined the phrase "sudden wealth syndrome" to describe the psychological impact of the high-tech fast lane. One of the institute's directors, Stephen Goldbart, jokes that lately he has become an expert on its opposite, "sudden loss of wealth syndrome."
"We have just come through this amazing growth cycle with very young people coming into oodles of money, and that's fun as long as that show is playing," Dr. Goldbart said. "But now we're seeing a very different picture. It's a time for the diversifying of the psychological portfolio, a time to think about having greater balance between work and other needs." 
Still, he acknowledged that being out of work eventually will take a toll in stress, not to mention financial difficulties. "These people may be in a bit of denial if they are not concerned about getting work," he said. "But remember one thing: it was that kind of optimism that has governed the psychology of wealth and the psychology of this economy. That optimism may take them farther than any nose-to-the-grindstone thinking ever would."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Money, and the time to spend it, help the bar G exceed expectations. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times); The Butterfly jazz club's owner says former dot-commers fill the tables. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (86%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); SEVERANCE PAY (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); JAZZ & BLUES (72%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (72%); MUSIC (72%); FESTIVALS (72%); THEME RESTAURANTS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); CYCLING (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); MOROCCO (88%); AFRICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



281 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS; 
One Dot-Com's Story: No Boom, but No Bust

BYLINE:  By AILEEN CHO 

 BODY:
At a staff meeting a year ago, George Cigale tried to galvanize the young crew of Tutor.com, an Internet start-up that matches tutors and students online. Mr. Cigale, the chairman and chief executive and a co-founder, spoke with the charismatic candor that had served him well in talking to venture capitalists; he told the staff that the next three months could mean $100,000 or so for each of them, in newly issued stock.
 "If anyone doesn't want their stock, I'll be glad to take it back," he said. "If you don't feel like you are an owner, you should not be here." 
 The staff members have never received their $100,000 each. Tutor.com never issued the stock. Still, in comparison with some other Internet start-ups these days, Tutor.com is like the house of bricks built by the third little pig. 
While the Web site is not wallowing in riches, it is not failing, either. Although it is not going public anytime soon, it is sitting comfortably on $15 million -- money that Mr. Cigale had raised from venture capitalists before the Nasdaq plunged last spring. It has laid off 30 percent of its staff -- a dozen of 40 people -- as part of an austerity plan. But it has also raised some salaries, has started to hire again and has even thought about an acquisition or two.
The mood, however, is one of sober reality. The shrimp cocktails served at a celebration in 1999 are now a distant memory. The staff bowling parties and other social events that the company once held regularly are much less frequent. Now the staff has fewer social outings, and it settles for pizza meetings and hero-sandwich working lunches in the company's Lower Manhattan office, a two-floor suite on Fulton Street. No longer do a half-dozen managers plan strategy at a restaurant once a week; that work is now done in the office. And everyone takes work home on the weekends.
In other words, Tutor.com is trying to run itself as a traditional company does, with a business plan, a realistic budget and profitability goals.
While other dot-coms tighten their belts or close shop, Tutor.com is looking at 2001 as an opportunity. 
"Tutor has been able to anticipate some of the issues ahead of the curve and that's made it attractive to other companies," said Jackie Karceski, its recently hired chief financial officer. 
Mr. Cigale said the company stood to benefit from an economic slowdown.
"This trend is countercyclical," he said, viewing the layoffs at other companies as a sign that more people will go back to school -- exactly the market Tutor.com wants. "You see huge progress in business models focused on education -- even more on e-learning," he said.
The company's other co-founder is John Katzman, who was a founder and the chief executive of Princeton Review, the test preparation company. In 1998, Mr. Cigale, then general manager of the software division at Princeton Review, felt an entrepreneurial itch. So he and and Mr. Katzman came up with the idea for Tutor.com, which Mr. Katzman envisioned as "the eBay of tutoring" and the "solution for the distance-learning challenged."
During its first year, anyone interested in teaching any skill, from algebra to zither-playing, could sign up with Tutor.com for $1 a year; there is no longer a sign-up fee because the company now charges extra for use of added features to its site. A student of any age can search the site for teachers based on subject, hourly rate, credentials and location, or to see if a tutor is available online. Tutor.com receives about 10 percent of every transaction arranged through its site.
Adam Newman, senior analyst at Eduventures.com, which provides research to education-related businesses, calls the former Princeton Review connection a distinct advantage for Tutor.com. "Although it's a dot-com, it has a relationship with a brick-and-mortar institution that provides a little bit of stability and with a leading brand name," he said. "That's certainly in their corner."
In its first round of raising capital, it brought in $2 million from backers like the Internet.com Corporation and Garage.com, well known in the world of Internet start-ups. 
An intriguing element of Tutor.com's business plan was the role the company offered to play in the business side of tutoring -- eliminating the need for the tutors to do their own bookkeeping.
"To have people bill for their time and have that taken care of is not something you find in normal chat rooms," said Robert E. Andersen, a board member of Tutor.com and chief executive of Omniken Inc., a technology consulting firm.
WHEN the original four-person staff first moved to Fulton Street in the fall of 1999, it had to share a server with a neighbor. But another round of financing allowed the company to move to a larger space in the building. For the move, David Berger, then vice president for technology, ordered three new servers and a video arcade game, Spy Hunter, that staff members could play to relieve stress.
Mr. Berger, who is no longer an employee but works as a consultant to the company, also programmed its first major technology embellishment, a feature that quickly matches students and tutors. That software solution was in the spirit of do-it-ourselves leanness that Mr. Cigale promotes constantly.
Just minutes after the start of the fast-match feature, Manda Pullen, a tutor from Portland, Ore., stumbled onto it. "A few minutes later I was tutoring in pre-algebra," said Ms. Pullen, one of about 25,000 registered tutors on the site. "I think it's a really great idea. You don't have to leave the house and go somewhere else."
But Tutor.com and a handful of competitors in the online tutoring business have all learned the same lesson. "People aren't running to do tutoring online," Mr. Newman said. He said the companies "need to find a way to condition that behavior" and to make inroads with big educational institutions.
To that end, the company has expanded its tutoring reach from the home into the classroom, forming partnerships with academic publishers like Scholastic and Houghton Mifflin. The publishers let Tutor.com offer its services to students buying their textbooks. Alliances with other online learning sites like Encarta, part of Microsoft, and bigchalk.com also extend its presence. 
Tutor.com also plans pilot programs with the State University of New York and New York University, among others, to link tutors with their students. The company expects up to 20 schools to be using its services within three months.
The new focus has meant growing pains for the company, which once specialized in recruiting a diverse staff with dazzling resumes that might emphasize Internet work over a background in education. Now, experience in the academic arena is more important.
And if employees need to vent some steam with video arcade action, they will have to take turns -- the company is not planning to buy any more games. Spending and purchasing are now closely monitored, and the company makes standard 13-week cash forecasts and holds weekly revenue meetings.
The top executives make about $70,000 annually, and the staff now hopes for bonuses and promotions, not stock bonanzas. 
EVAN DOBBINS, 32, who was lured to Tutor.com from his job as a sheet-music librarian in 1999, never worried about the risk of joining a start-up. He was Tutor.com's fifth employee, and was attracted to the company partly by the initial possibility of fast wealth as he helped it get off the ground. Within the first year, thoughts of big stock gains gave way to more mundane worries about where he was fitting into the company. At one point, he almost quit.
But Mr. Dobbins, who now sells the company's services to colleges, settled into a regular eight-hour workday with some overtime on the weekends at home, and was recently pleasantly surprised by a raise. 
"People look at the dot-com world and imagine that every company is either on the verge of bankruptcy or basking in riches," he said. "While no one here is in fear of the company crashing unexpectedly, neither are we obsessing over driving toward the golden I.P.O."

GRAPHIC: Photos: As other Internet start-ups shut down, Tutor.com has tried to control costs. At right, employees held a weekly "pizza meeting." Last June, a server was loaded into an elevator at its Manhattan office. (Catherine Spencer); (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times) Chart: "And Then There Were . . ."Tutor.com is a survivor, but many other dot-com start-ups have not been as fortunate, particularly since the Nasdaq plunge last spring. Graph shows the number of Internet company failures in 2000 Jan.: 1Feb.: 2March: 2April: 1May: 13June: 16 July: 20Aug.: 10Sept.: 22Oct.: 35Nov.: 46Dec.: 40 TOTAL 210(Includes two failures in month unknown) (Source: Webmergers.com)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); STARTUPS (91%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); BUDGETS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); RESTAURANTS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; TUTORS AND TUTORING 

ORGANIZATION: TUTOR.COM 

PERSON: CHO, AILEEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



282 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS; 
How Long Is the Reach of Your Former Employer?

BYLINE:  By BERNARD STAMLER 

 BODY:
FOR years, executives of dot-com and high-technology companies prided themselves on their mobility, often switching from one job to another. And so what if they were asked to sign confidentiality or noncompetition clauses? Jobs were plentiful, and in a tight labor market, it seemed that few employers were enforcing those agreements anyway.
 But that was before the Internet shakeout. 
 Now, many more employees -- from high-level executives to hourly workers with seemingly limited responsibilities -- are being asked to agree to such clauses. And as some new-economy companies have downsized or shut down, many of their former workers have found themselves shackled to agreements that prohibit them from working in their chosen fields. Or have they? 
Though some high-level employees may effectively be barred from competing with former employers, generally because of their knowledge of proprietary information, many others are not, regardless of what their agreements might say, according to legal experts. In many jurisdictions, they say, restrictions on competition are typically enforced only under the most extreme circumstances -- for example, when an employee possesses important trade secrets. And in some places -- notably California, where a statute bars restraints "on engaging in a lawful profession" -- noncompete agreements are rarely enforced.
Most employers know this, said Alan L. Sklover, a lawyer in Manhattan who specializes in employment law. But he said many employers still required workers to sign such pacts -- when they are hired, during their employment or when they leave, often in return for a monetary settlement.
Many employees may not know the law. Others may not be willing to test it and risk the cost and bother of litigation or a possible loss of severance pay, said Alan Exelrod, a labor lawyer in San Francisco. "It's a pure terror tactic," he said.
Glenn Dornfeld, a lawyer in New York who represents small Internet start-ups, conceded that "a lot of it is for psychological effect." But some companies, he said, "have legitimate concerns, and for them it makes sense."
WHATEVER the reasons for it, the practice has become common in the dot-com world, where many employees are young and inexperienced, said Allison Hemming, founder of the Hired Guns, a New York company that specializes in placing freelancers in new-media and publishing jobs. She also publishes a newsletter and is host of monthly "pink-slip parties" for laid-off Web workers. Hundreds of people attend those parties, and many complain about the confidentiality or noncompete pacts they signed, she said. "They all talk to me about them," she said. 
Danielle Tropea, 25, a former project manager at Concrete Inc. in New York, an online media company, tells a typical story. Several months before she was laid off in August, the company changed its compensation plan to offer stock options in lieu of bonuses, and she and others were asked to sign noncompete agreements. "I asked the company lawyer, 'Why are you making us sign this?' " said Ms. Tropea, who now works in event planning for a cosmetics company, which she declined to name. "He didn't really have an answer." Still, she agreed to sign, as did most of her colleagues. "Most of us were young," she said, "and didn't really know what was going on."
Paul Donaher, managing director at Concrete, declined to comment.
Maia Weinstock, 23, a writer in New York, also signed a noncompete agreement with her dot-com employer, a science Web site. She was laid off last fall and is now writing for a media company. At her current job, she did not have to sign a confidentiality agreement. "If I'd been asked, I wouldn't have," she said.
What do such agreements cover? Historically, they were intended to protect the owners of businesses in manufacturing, sales and other traditional endeavors from unfair competition. The pacts typically included limits on the areas where former employees could work -- a "territory," for example, for a sales representative -- or prevented someone from opening a competing business over a certain period. Disclosure of trade secrets was also prohibited.
Such provisions are still found, but they have been supplemented by an array of others. Among them, according to Mr. Sklover, are promises not to "disrupt relations" with customers, other employees or vendors, and not to "disparage" the company after leaving it. Some employers, he said, even ask workers to sign letters saying they are not subject to any restrictions because of agreements they might have signed with former employers. Noncompete agreements generally last from six months to a year, but some can be for longer periods.
The agreements vary by company, and sometimes are presented as employees are going out the door. Amazon.com said last month that it would lay off 340 customer service workers in Seattle, effective in May, as part of a nationwide downsizing involving 1,300 employees. The customer service representatives, who generally earn $11 to $15 an hour, were told in a letter that they would be given two weeks' severance pay. But if they signed a three-page "separation agreement and general release" promising not to file suit against the company or disparage it, they would receive an additional 10 weeks' pay, plus $500. 
Many employees balked. Ultimately, Amazon backed down from the nondisparagement clause. In an e-mail message on Feb. 1 to the affected employees, Bill Price, vice president for customer service at Amazon.com, acknowledged the complaints and said that it was unlikely that the company would have tried to enforce the disparagement clause anyway.
Still, Patty Smith, a spokeswoman for Amazon.com, said the company would continue to enforce a noncompete and confidentiality agreement that the employees had signed upon being hired, which also relates to issues like employees' rights to inventions. She said some of the workers did more than just answer phones.
Another spokesman for Amazon, Bill Curry, also said those clauses were needed. But he refused to speculate on whether knowledge obtained on the job would bar the workers from taking up the phones at, say, Barnesandnoble.com or other rivals.
The deadline for employee signatures was Friday. Andrew Morgan, 28, who has been with Amazon.com for three years, said he and many others had planned to sign the agreement, albeit reluctantly, because the extra weeks of pay were too much to give up. 
DOES such corporate behavior fly in the face of basic American notions of fair play and freedom? Many courts seem to think so, especially in the case of Internet companies, where geographic restraints are essentially meaningless and time frames of even one year may be considered excessive in an ever-evolving industry.
About three years ago, the State Supreme Court in Manhattan refused to grant DoubleClick, an Internet advertising company, an injunction that would have barred two former executives from competing with it for a year. (One of them had signed a one-year noncompete agreement with a predecessor firm.) Although the court found that the two were in possession of important trade secrets, it went on to order only a six-month injunction, calling that enough time "given the speed with which the Internet advertising industry apparently changes."
Other courts have gone further. In a case just over a year ago involving Aetna U.S. Healthcare, the insurer, customer service representatives in California were asked to sign noncompete agreements. About 25 employees refused and were dismissed; about 10 of them sued the company, according to Mr. Exelrod, who represented one of the employees. In one of the Aetna cases and in a similar case involving a discharged employee of the toy maker Playhut Inc., courts not only found such agreements to be void under California law, but also allowed for the possibility that the employer might ultimately be penalized if it was found to knowingly violate state law.
That happened in another case, now under appeal. In 1999, a trial jury in the Superior Court of California in San Francisco awarded $1 million in punitive damages to Anita Walia, a customer service representative at Aetna who was dismissed for failing to sign a noncompete agreement, which stated that she would not go to work for a competitor for at least six months after leaving the company. Without admitting any wrongdoing, Aetna has since stopped requiring that the agreements be signed, both in California and nationwide, said Fred Laberge, a company spokesman.
It remains to be seen whether the case involving Ms. Walia will set a precedent. 
Mr. Sklover, the labor lawyer, said that he was unconvinced and that employers would keep seeking such restrictions even though they were generally unenforceable.
Today, he said, the "absurdity of many of the Internet business models" is generally recognized. "It won't take long," he said, for the courts to recognize "the absurdity of the noncompetition agreements, too."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Noncompete pacts are often criticized at Manhattan "pink-slip parties" where laid-off Web workers can mingle with recruiters. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COVENANTS NOT TO COMPETE (92%); LAYOFFS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (77%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (77%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (76%); SEVERANCE PAY (75%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); STARTUPS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); LITIGATION (65%); TERRORISM (50%); STOCK OPTIONS (50%) LABOR 

PERSON: STAMLER, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



283 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/Douglas S. Foreman; 
TCW Galileo Aggressive Growth Equities Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
THE dot-com shakeout does not faze Douglas S. Foreman, who manages the $250 million TCW Galileo Aggressive Growth Equities fund. It happens to have a 35 percent stake in technology.
 "Right now, most well-capitalized Internet players are having short-term problems because of the slowdown in dot-com spending," Mr. Foreman said from his office in downtown Los Angeles. 
 But he said he expected a rebound in spending on Internet infrastructure and software. "We believe that all this dot-com business that's quickly disappearing will be compensated for by brick-and-mortar companies that will spend 10 times more than the dot-coms ever did," he said. "It just takes time."
The slowing economy, which hasn't helped the technology sector, does not bother him, either. "If the economy keeps falling off a cliff, obviously the technology stocks will be hurt," he said. "But as the economy recovers over time, technology should resume its leadership."
TCW Galileo Aggressive Growth returned 32.1 percent a year, on average, for the three years through Thursday, compared with 18.1 percent for its peers in the midcap growth category, according to Morningstar Inc. But for the 12 months ended Thursday, the fund had a loss of 41.8 percent, versus a loss of 17 percent for its group.
The managers trust that highflying tech stocks will settle down.
Mr. Foreman, 43, runs the fund with Christopher J. Ainley, 41. Together, they also manage about $5.3 billion for institutions and wealthy individuals in midcap growth stocks. Their mantra is to achieve consistent, sustainable high-level growth without much regard for what Wall Street thinks.
"We're aggressive-growth investors looking for very rapidly growing companies," Mr. Foreman said. 
The managers start with a list of 2,700 companies with market capitalizations of $300 million to $12 billion, then apply two factors to trim that to 200 to 250 companies. The first factor looks for companies with annual earnings and revenue growth of at least 15 percent over the last three years; the second checks for minimum returns on equity of 15 percent a year, on average, over the next three years. 
Next, they eliminate about 100 companies in cyclical or commodities businesses, typically those in capital goods, financial services and energy businesses. Then they use a rigorous, hands-on analysis to pick the 40 or 60 stocks in the fund, concentrating on five sectors: technology, health care, services, specialty retail and media.
"We get on airplanes and visit companies," Mr. Foreman said, "and sit down with management and go through the business." He figures that he, Mr. Ainley and three analysts who work on the fund each spend about 60 percent of their time on the road. 
They ask management to explain what distinguishes the company's product or service, how it sees its markets developing and who its customers are. "We know the company has done well in the past," Mr. Foreman said. "Now we want to get behind the numbers to see if that will continue."
The team tries to develop a three-year forecast of a company's revenues, earnings and cash flow, buying stocks when that forecast exceeds Wall Street estimates. The bigger the margin, the better.
"The market is very efficient at pricing stocks based on analysts' forecasts," Mr. Foreman said. "Our value-added is the ability to say that those expectations will be proved to be too low over the next three years."
Over all, the five-year earnings growth rate of the fund's companies averages 40 percent a year, compared with 18 percent for the Standard & Poor's MidCap 400 index.
Mr. Foreman generally dumps companies after a shortfall in quarterly earnings; he trims winners when they exceed 10 percent of the portfolio's value. Because of the long-term focus, the fund's turnover averages a relatively low 55 percent a year.
He recently bought more shares in eBay, the online auction site. "Companies like Amazon and Yahoo have been relatively unsuccessful at eroding eBay's market share," Mr. Foreman said. "Buyers want to go where the sellers are, and vice versa, and the biggest number of eyeballs ride on their network." 
EBay's market is potentially worth $150 billion, he said, so its annual revenue of $5.5 billion has much room to grow. Moreover, he said, the company is unlike retailers in that it does not have to worry about inventories. "The biggest problem with retailers is having inventory on hand, and fresh," he said. Wall Street expects eBay to have earnings growth of 125 percent, annualized, over three years.
The fund first bought eBay shares in September 1998 at an average cost of $35. On Friday, the stock closed at $44.56.
Mr. Foreman also likes Mediacom Communications, a regional cable company based in Middletown, N.Y., but that primarily serves the Midwest. In rural areas, cable companies are less susceptible to customer demand for technological upgrades, he said. Mediacom is also an acquisition candidate, he added, as larger cable operators expand their service areas. He expects the company to far exceed the consensus forecast of 10 percent cash-flow growth, annualized, over three years.
He bought shares in February 2000 at $17; they now trade at $17.94.
WALL STREET expects earnings of another holding, Sapient, an information technology consulting company in Cambridge, Mass., to grow 48 percent a year, on average, over the next three years. Mr. Foreman thinks that Sapient can do better than that.
"There are so many different types of computers and businesses that need to talk to each other that it gets very complicated," he said. "Even big companies with full-time tech staff need to hire people to help them out."
Sapient has survived while some competitors are shaky or have gone bankrupt, he said. The company's short-term business conditions are difficult, he added, but he foresees significant improvement over the next three years.
He bought shares in January at an average of $17.50. They closed on Friday at $13.44.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As a fund manager, Douglas S. Foreman sees technology stocks eventually leading the market higher. At home in Laguna Hills, Calif., above, he helped his daughter Janelle and son Jason prepare for a school dance. (Michael Tweed for The New York Times) Chart: "TCW Aggressive Growth Equities" Category: Midcap growthNet assets: $250 millionInception: June 1996Managers: Douglas S. Foreman; Christopher J. Ainley since inceptionMinimum purchase: $25,000; ($2,000 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 55% 3-year annualized return throughFeb. 8 (Class I shares): 32.1%Category average: 18.1% SECTOR BREAKDOWN Technology: 35.2%Electronics: 13.8%Telecommunications: 16.1%Other: 20.8%Pharmaceuticals: 8.3%Media: 5.8% FEES (CLASS I SHARES) Front-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: NoneExpense ratio: 1.14% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); BONDS (77%); RETAILERS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (66%); AFFLUENT MARKET (64%); HEALTH CARE (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: TCW GALILEO AGGRESSIVE GROWTH EQUITIES FUND 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%)

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; FOREMAN, DOUGLAS S 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



284 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2488 words

HEADLINE: Looking For Love 

BYLINE:  By KELLY CROW 

 BODY:
ASHA SEKHRI cannot recall the first time she felt Other. Perhaps it happened as a child at the family dinner table, when looking around, she saw faces that did not mirror her own.
 Of them all, she most resembled her father, Surinder, a quiet Indian man who came to the United States in 1967. Like him, her skin was butterscotch brown and her hair silky black. But she could never look like her half-siblings Anil and Gita, who were pale pink and spoke with lilting French accents like their mother, Mr. Sekhri's first wife. 
 After a divorce, Mr. Sekhri married a lively Colombian dentist named Ligia Abril in Washington in 1968. The couple had two children: a son they called Omar, a name which the Indian cousins always considered too Muslim; and the baby of the family, who everyone agreed should be called Asha. It means hope. 
"It's funny," Ms. Sekhri said last week over chickpeas and naan at Joy Indian Restaurant on East 28th Street. "Because as a child you ask these questions, like Mommy, Mommy, why do I get darker than my brothers in the sun? Why doesn't my hair turn blond? But if we hadn't been raised in an inclusive way, we would have all been at war with one another. You learn to have a broad interpretation of family."
Ms. Sekhri was taught to apply the same tolerance in matters of romance. It is a point of pride for her that as she grew up her heart formed no filters for ethnicity or religion or culture. She is 30, a native American daughter of immigrants and living in Manhattan. A lifelong political activist, she runs her own nonprofit organization, the South Asia Against AIDS Foundation. And the men in her life have been white, black and shades of brown. They were Indian, Jamaican, Guyanese and from the American South. Some were Hindu like her father or Roman Catholic like her mother.
And while second-generation immigrants often struggle to be American and yet meet the societal demands of their parents' homelands, Asha Sekhri is the hope of her upbringing: educated, independent, passionate and colorblind.
Still, she quietly admits she has never fully shed the feeling of Other. Her story of love, from the seventh grade to now, is a string of failed romances. In each one, color or culture, faith or family, played a subtle or not-so-subtle role. And though she tried to set no boundaries, she has faced them all the same.
This is Asha Sekhri's story, one that reveals much about identity and love in her generation. She tells it simply, without much analysis. She tells it man by man.

JOE
He has no last name, but he never needed one. Joe was 12, like Asha, and they both attended Boca Academy in Boca Raton, Fla., where her father, an engineer, moved the family in 1974 so he could work for I.B.M. Asha Sekhri had been born in Kingston, N.Y., though, and her mother liked to show the Florida neighbors a picture of her baby daughter frolicking in the snow in Kingston, which is 80 miles north of New York. But everyone could see that Asha was a Florida bird. She fell hard for sunny beaches and for Joe. 
Joe was blond, and even at 12 she thought he looked like a professional heavyweight wrestler. But while Asha, a bookish girl with wide brown eyes, smiled and blushed and tried for months to catch his attention, he never looked at her twice. He never called out her name. He liked a blonde named Roxanne.
"It was only a crush, but I remember feeling so rejected because I looked different," Ms. Sekhri said. "I didn't look like him, and they looked like two peas in a pod, blondie and blondie." That was the first time I really realized I wasn't part of that world. From that point, I looked at everything differently."
At home, playing with her siblings, she fit in. With Joe, she did not.

SHAWN
On Jan. 20, 1989, waiting on the Capitol grounds to watch the inauguration of President George H. W. Bush, she looked beside her in the crowd and saw a graduate student named Shawn Camp. He was from Arkansas, 23, 6 feet 5 inches, with blond hair, blue eyes and a copy of The Washington Post.
Mr. Camp, reached last week in West Palm Beach, Fla., remembered every detail about their introduction.
"It was cold, and I was standing dead center, 100 yards from the dais, and reading my Post when around my shoulder comes these long, lovely brown fingers," he said. "They were pointing to some article, and I was actually kind of annoyed until I turned and saw they belonged to this beautiful woman in a blue coat. I wasn't annoyed after that."
It seemed a bold gesture for an 18-year-old who had never dated in high school, but Asha Sekhri said she expected nothing from the encounter. She had come to Georgetown University to get an education in international politics, not love. She thought herself too young, too Other for that. At the ceremony's end, though, Mr. Camp asked for her telephone number. She did not refuse him.
"He was so nice, and I was so taken," she said. "I mean, he had blue eyes and I was so dark, and I never really thought he could like me. His family had been here for generations, so he was one of those real Americans, as opposed to us, who are always playing at it."
But Mr. Camp surprised her. He was white and male and Southern, yes, but his father was also one-eighth Cherokee. He knew well the stories behind the Trail of Tears and the racial hatred that had driven his American Indian ancestors from the South to the dusty Southwest.
So for two years, he courted Asha Sekhri and tried to allay her fears of rejection.
"My sisters look like you because of our Indian blood," he would tell her. "It just didn't come out in me."
Eventually, she believed him. 
"I think I was the one with the prejudice," she said. "I was the one who needed to wipe away my preconceptions. All of a sudden, it was like: 'Wow. People aren't what they appear.' "
On Valentine's Day 1990, he proposed marriage. She refused, saying she still felt too young to settle down. But as for dating a white man, she no longer felt so Other.

WESLEY
Her next love began like a John Hughes film, she likes to say, with a sweet revelation. It ended nearly six years later with bitter reality. Mostly, she blames silver-spoon society, but also family.
"I just felt I was never accepted by his parents," Ms. Sekhri said. "They wanted a debutante, and I was a revolutionary."
She had no way of knowing this that night at the Delta Psi Epsilon Professional Foreign Service party. She was a sophomore and standing alone when Wesley Clark II, son of Gen. Wesley K. Clark, who had most recently led the NATO forces in Europe, walked up and said, resolutely: "Asha, I'm in love with you. I've been in love with you for about a year and a half now."
They had never never spoken to each other before, and so she looked up at him, incredulous. He was handsome, with wavy brown hair and a strong jaw. She told him she was on a first date with a friend of his. At 3 the next morning, though, she called him and waited for him on the top stair of her four-story walk-up. 
"He lived about 12 blocks away, but he got there in less than five minutes," she said. "He ran and when he got to the landing, he looked up and smiled, and that was it. We were together nearly six years."
Two people in love could not have more dissimilar. Back then, she was a member of the Progressive Student Union, marching for women's rights and affirmative action and the release of Nelson Mandela. He was a Republican. She finished college and began paying for graduate school at Georgetown with loans and credit cards. He accompanied his parents to State Department dinners and spent weekends at their antiques-filled house on the banks of the Potomac.
But the two were happy, so long as they never spoke about his parents and how their plans for him did not seem to include Asha Sekhri, she said.
"I would go to their house," she said, "and it was the most beautiful thing I'd ever seen. It was another world, and I was not allowed to stay. And when he did finally stand up and say, 'I want this woman in my life,' it was too late. For me, it was too late."
Mr. Clark, a filmmaker now living in New York, acknowledged his parents' disapproval of the match, but he said it had nothing to do with race or social standing.
"They could see I was always upset," he said. "I think she still had some resentment against white men, and there was nothing I could do to change my appearance or my family. That was a constant source of tension for us. I was really heartbroken when it ended."

GAURAV
After the breakup in mid-1995, Asha Sekhri, 27, felt lost in Washington. Upon receiving her master's degree in 1996, she spent a year studying economic development in Brazil and a couple of years in Chicago working to pay off her school debt. 
She was in Chicago, working as an advertising executive for Leo Burnett, when two things changed her life. One was the death of her 94-year-old Indian grandmother. The other was meeting Gaurav Bathiji. 
Her grandmother's death devastated her. For months, she grieved for the woman and for the Indian heritage her grandmother seemed to symbolize. Ms. Sekhri suddenly realized how little she knew of Indian culture. She spoke fluent Spanish, but hardly any Hindi. She was her mother's daughter and had spent years reading voraciously about Latin culture. 
But here was a real reminder that she was something more. She was also her father's daughter.
That was how she found herself one night at a South Asian club in Chicago. "Don't ever ask someone for the time unless you expect to fall in love," she said of meeting Mr. Bathiji, who at 25 was two years younger and worked for a financial consulting firm.
"He was an Indian, and all of a sudden everything in my life made sense," Ms. Sekhri added.
Here was someone who understood her culture, she thought. Here was a man who recited from the Bhagavad-Gita and sang Punjabi songs and even looked like her father.
One day, shortly after Ms. Sekhri and Mr. Bathiji began dating, he took her to Devon Street in Chicago's Little India. She had not been to an Indian goods store in years, and Mr. Bathiji selected for her a pair of earrings and a bindi, a jewel that Indian women often wear on their foreheads.
"There, now you look Indian," he said as she put them on and stood before a mirror. "I couldn't see it before, but now I can."
At that moment, she felt she was home.
"It was incredible, because he knew the food and the music and the dance, and he spoke Hindi and had that Indian sweetness, that affection," she said. 
It would be months before she realized the two did not really get along. Even so, she wanted it to work. Her brother Omar suspected, rightly, that it would not. The couple broke up on Christmas Day 1998. 
"He just wasn't ready to settle down and get married, and that's what ultimately ended it," Omar said. "And it just goes to show you that two people can come from the same values, the same culture -- I mean, he even looked like my brother! -- and it still is not enough. He dispelled that myth for her."

PAUL
In the end, Ms. Sekhri learned more about reconnecting with her dual heritage by loving a man more racially mixed than she. She met him in New York, where she moved in 1998 to work in advertising and for agencies devoted to humanitarian causes. (She went on to work for the Rusty Staub Foundation and Teach for America.)
The man's name was Paul Bradshaw, and he was a trader on Wall Street, a lanky man with an affinity for good clothes and cigars. Mr. Bradshaw was also half Jamaican, a quarter Indian and a quarter white. And from the moment they met playing pool at Luna Park in Union Square, she sensed he was completely comfortable with himself. The effect was intoxicating.
"He was more mixed than me and had the right to be even more confused than me," she said, "but he really respected people. He liked the ones who wanted to be taken care of, but he also liked it when they were independent. Either way, you were accepted, and I needed that so badly."
Mr. Bradshaw said: "Jamaicans are so diverse that we're brought up to think race is not an issue, but here, I guess it's still on the radar. Either way, there was never any superficiality to our relationship, and I'm glad we met."
And somewhere in the guided tours around the city and the trips to eat roti and rum cake with his family in Mount Vernon, N.Y., their friendship became more. She may have told her new South Asian friends that his color did not matter, but she secretly felt proud to be dating a black man. This time, she was the one breaking barriers. 
"I never saw him as black, and yet he was so black," she said. "It was important to me, and yet it wasn't. It's like the light, something that surrounds you and defines you, but you can't see. It makes you who are, but it's still hard to explain."
That was the conclusion at which she had finally arrived, and she was glad for the lessons. But after dating for more than two years, there was still something missing.
"We both realized that our friendship was the thing we wanted most from each other," she said. They stopped dating last year. "I want the friendship, but I also want the magic. I like security and dependability, but you've got to have those butterflies. You're not human if you don't."

ERNEST
She found those butterflies on New Year's Eve, fluttering around a British-Guyanese man with honey-colored skin and kind black eyes. He was standing in the corner at a party neither of them had wanted to attend. Asha Sekhri came with friends, however, and Ernest Gunraj, 35, a computer software consultant, came to meet those friends.
He had only been in the city since October, having been born in London to parents who emigrated from Guyana to England in the 1960's. Now an adult, he came to New York, in part, to start a Professional Guyanese Association. On this night, he was looking for recruits. Instead, he found Asha Sekhri.
Mr. Gunraj, who is divorced, said he was far from disappointed. 
"Growing up in England, I didn't really identify with anyone, not with Indians or the English," he said. "At one point in my life, I thought I needed to marry a Guyanese. But I went that route, and even though culture is important, I've found that values and love take precedence. And Asha is wonderful."
There are still things to work out in the relationship -- she would have liked to have been invited to Mr. Gunraj's first Guyanese-only meeting, for example -- but Ms. Sekhri said that in this relationship, neither feels like an Other. And for this reason, she said, the courtship will be her last.
"I marvel at people who come from one culture," Ms. Sekhri said. "I find it unusual because their identity is so confirmed, so tied up in one experience. I've never felt that.
"But I don't care what anybody says about love being too soon or too quick. You can fall in love the first time you see someone. You may put up a fight, but eventually you just have to give in and pledge yourself completely. I refuse to believe otherwise."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "He was so nice, and I was so taken," Asha Sekhri said of a college romance. "I mean, he had blue eyes and I was so dark, and I never really thought he could like me." (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Asha Sekhri and Ernest Gunraj, the British-Guyanese software consultant who is her new boyfriend, share a moment in a Manhattan nightclub. It was at around age 12, far left and below, Ms. Sekhri said, that she first realized she did not fit that blond, blue-eyed American type. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. 12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); FAMILY (78%); CHILDREN (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); ETHNICITY (69%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (69%) LOVE (EMOTION); INDIAN-AMERICANS; ISLAM; HISPANIC-AMERICANS 

ORGANIZATION: ASHA (94%) ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: RICK PERRY (61%) SEKHRI, ASHA; CROW, KELLY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (86%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); SOUTHERN ASIA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



285 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: A Prosperity Easy to Destroy 

BYLINE:  By Robert E. Rubin; Robert E. Rubin was secretary of the treasury from 1995 to 1999.

 BODY:
I had not intended to get involved in the public debate on fiscal policy at this point, but I feel so strongly that a tax cut of the magnitude proposed is a serious error in economic policy that I felt a need to speak.
 The proposed tax cut of roughly $2 trillion -- $1.6 trillion of tax cuts plus $400 billion of interest on debt that would otherwise have been retired -- would substantially diminish the fiscal position of the federal government, and would create a serious threat of deficits on the non-entitlement side of the federal budget. That, in turn, could increase interest rates and recreate the loss of consumer and business confidence associated with the deficits of the late 80's and early 90's. 
 Over the last 20 years, our nation has seen the benefits of fiscal discipline, and also the adverse consequences of a lack of fiscal discipline. From these experiences, there are lessons that should guide policymakers. First, we gain greatly when our nation is clearly committed to budgetary discipline and lose greatly when it is not. Second, it is wise to be prudent -- we should avoid committing ourselves to dramatic courses of action that are hard to reverse in the face of the inherent uncertainties of any projections. Third, we have a duty not to pass on burdens to the next generation when we can act today. The size of the proposed tax cut fails all these tests.
Instead, the fiscal discipline that was so central to the remarkable economic conditions of the past eight years is the best path for both our short-term and long-term economic well-being. A brief look back can provide very useful guidance for going forward.
In 1992, the unemployment rate was over 7 percent, the fiscal deficit was $290 billion and projected by the Congressional Budget Office to grow to over $500 billion in 2001 from there, the federal debt had quadrupled over the preceding 12 years and was projected to double again by 2001, and the prevailing view was that economic conditions would remain mediocre well into the future.
The economic transformation that followed included massive job creation, rising incomes, low inflation, unemployment now at 4.2 percent, and today's large current and projected surpluses. Many factors contributed to this transformation, including globalization, new technologies, vast corporate restructuring, and our flexible labor and capital markets. But I think there is no doubt that key and indispensable to this was the restoration of fiscal discipline, beginning with the deficit reduction program of 1993.
Just how dramatic a change in economic policy this was is evidenced by the vituperativeness of the opposition, with strident predictions of vast increases in unemployment and recession.
Instead, fiscal discipline contributed greatly to lower interest rates and, very, very importantly, restoration of confidence by consumers and business after deficits had come to symbolize a much broader set of concerns about our ability to manage our affairs. The result was increased demand; increased investment, especially in the new technologies; increased productivity; and sustained growth in gross domestic product, jobs and incomes.
We are now in the process of unwinding the excesses that, in my view, inevitably develop after an extended period of good times. To minimize the difficulty and duration of that unwinding and to best realize our very favorable longer-term prospects, we should continue with our hard-won fiscal discipline and not adopt a greatly outsized tax cut that seriously threatens the federal government's fiscal soundness.
There is broad agreement amongst virtually all mainstream economists that a tax cut this year is unlikely to provide meaningful economic stimulus to deal with whatever adverse circumstances may occur this year. Moreover, if a tax cut is desired for short-term stimulative purposes, the vast preponderance of the one proposed -- which affects later years -- is largely irrelevant. Instead, a front-end-loaded, moderate tax cut, or even a special rebate aimed at working people with the highest propensity to spend, would maximize current economic impact. The point would be to achieve increased short-term demand without causing a level of fiscal deterioration that would, on balance, damage confidence.
The serious threat of the proposed tax cut to fiscal soundness becomes apparent when you look at the numbers a little more closely. The surplus of $5.6 trillion as projected by the C.B.O. is roughly $2.1 trillion after deducting Social Security and Medicare surpluses -- as many members of Congress in both parties have advocated -- and making realistic adjustments to better represent future spending on current discretionary programs and tax revenues. Since the proposed tax cut would cost $2 trillion, or $2.2 trillion if an alternative minimum tax adjustment is included, it would entirely use up the remaining surplus, with no additional debt reduction. And that leaves nothing for special programs that already have broad support, like a prescription drug benefit or a greater increase in defense spending for a missile defense system, or other purposes or additional tax cuts, all of which are almost sure to happen this year or over the next few years. These spending increases and the additional tax cuts could well cost between $500 billion and $1 trillion, leading to a deficit under this analysis of the C.B.O. projections.
Moreover, five-year budget forecasts, to say nothing of 10-year forecasts, are highly unreliable -- just look at the forecasts that were made five or 10 years ago. Thus, even if you favored a very large tax cut as the preferred use for available surplus -- which I emphatically do not -- even a moderate degree of prudence would suggest waiting a few years to see whether or not the projected surpluses are actually occurring, meanwhile paying down debt. That would also be in plenty of time to deal with any concerns about the uses that might be made of the surplus after the debt is retired. The suggestion that tax cuts could be rescinded if projected surpluses don't materialize seems unlikely politically.
The political impetus in Washington is toward tax cuts and spending. Real progress has been made over the past decade toward a political mindset of discipline, but that is always highly vulnerable, and a very large tax cut is a significant step back to the political mindset that produced the deficits and quadrupling of the debt from 1980 to 1992.
The imperative for maintaining our fiscal discipline and not taking a risk of losing the current opportunity to retire the publicly held debt of the federal government is increased by the importance of putting the federal government in the best possible position to meet the Social Security and Medicare requirements of future generations, when the federal budget is projected to be in deficit again.
All of this is independent of the question of how best to use the surplus available on a fiscally sound basis. My own preference would be to divide this between debt reduction, a more moderate tax cut predominantly favoring middle-income and lower-income people, and special initiatives in important areas like education and health care. Others have different views. But we should all agree that it would be profoundly unwise to seriously risk the hard-won fiscal discipline that has brought so many benefits to our nation.
We have had a remarkable eight years after a far more difficult period, including a recession in 1990. We should learn from experience and stay with a landmark change in strategy that worked, not take the path that experience suggests poses a real threat to our economic well-being.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Robert Grossman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (75%); RECESSION (74%); JOB CREATION (72%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (50%) TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: RUBIN, ROBERT E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



286 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1686 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Mexican-Americans; 
Forging a New Vision of America's Melting Pot

BYLINE:  By GREGORY RODRIGUEZ; Gregory Rodriguez is a senior fellow at the New America Foundation, a nonpartisan public policy institute.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
WHILE visiting Ellis Island at the turn of the 20th century, Henry James wondered how the sweeping tide of immigrants would ultimately affect "the idea of" America. Comparing the incorporation of foreigners to sword- and fire-swallowing feats at a circus, James reflected on what it meant for America to share its patrimony with those "inconceivable aliens."
 Yet throughout American history, immigrants and minority groups, seeking to make room for themselves, have broadened the definition of America. Minority experiences have acted as a powerful force in the creation of America's self-image. 
 For the first half of the 20th century, Jews were the paradigmatic American minority by which all other minority experiences were understood. In the second half, African-Americans, the descendants of a forced migration, set the standard for a racial debate that altered the nation's vision of itself. Now, with Hispanics poised to become the largest minority group, Mexican-Americans -- who make up two-thirds of all Latinos in the United States -- could change how the nation sees itself in the 21st century. 
Their unique perspectives on racial and cultural synthesis may fundamentally alter the nation's attitudes, for they are the second largest immigrant group in American history -- the largest when including illegal immigrants. Mexicans, themselves the product of the clash between the Old and New Worlds, could shift this country's often divisive "us versus them" racial dialogue.
A Census Bureau study released last month found that about 10 percent of United States residents are foreign-born, midway between the high of 15 percent at the turn of the 20th century and the low of 5 percent in 1970. And Mexicans are by far today's biggest immigrant group. As such, they are the most likely to leave a permanent imprint on the culture. 
For instead of simply adding one more color to the multicultural rainbow, Mexican-Americans may help forge a unifying vision. With a history that reveals an ability to accept racial and cultural ambiguity, Mexican-Americans could broaden the definition of America unlike any earlier immigrants.
THE early 20th-century debate about the "melting pot" evolved as Jewish writers envisioned an America that might better accommodate Jews. Their historic experience as a minority prompted them to take the lead in re-imagining America for an entire wave of immigrants. The playwright Israel Zangwill, in a 1908 drama about a Jewish immigrant rejecting his faith's prohibition against intermarriage, developed the optimistic American civic faith that a fusion of ethnicities will create a stronger nation. For Zangwill, the United States was both a safe harbor and a crucible that melted Old World ethnics into a distinctly new American culture.
But by the 1960's, America's exclusion of African-Americans from the mainstream forged a new vision based on multiculturalism. Though it encompassed other minority groups, including women and gays, blacks gave the multicultural movement its key moral impetus. The civil rights movement had begun by advocating racial integration, but by the late 1960's its message had fused with a reemergent black separatism that fueled the nascent multicultural movement.
Multiculturalism -- the ideology that promotes the coexistence of separate but equal cultures -- essentially rejects assimilation and considers the melting-pot concept an unwelcome imposition of the dominant culture. Race became the prism through which all social issues were perceived. 
BUT because their past and present is characterized by a continual synthesis, a blending of the Spanish and indigenous cultures, Mexican-Americans could project their own melting pot vision onto America, one that includes mixing race as well as ethnicity. Rather than upholding the segregated notion of a country divided by mutually exclusive groups, Mexican-Americans might use their experience to imagine an America in which racial, ethnic and cultural groups collide to create new ways of being American.
It was never clear where Mexican-Americans belonged on the American racial scale. In 1896, two white politicians in Texas grew worried that more Mexican immigrants would naturalize and vote. They filed suit against a Mexican-born citizenship applicant, Ricardo Rodriguez, because he was not white, and so, like Asians and American Indians, not eligible to become a citizen. Citing the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, in which citizenship was granted to Mexicans in the conquered region of the Southwest after 1848, the court rejected the suit on the grounds that Mr. Rodriguez's national origins qualified him for citizenship regardless of his racial background.
In the 1920 census, Mexicans were counted as whites. Ten years later, they were reassigned to a separate Mexican "racial" category, though in 1950 they were white again. Mexican-Americans and Hispanics as a whole are commonly viewed as a mutually exclusive racial, linguistic and cultural category in a country of competing minorities. But Mexican-Americans do not share the overarching ethnic narrative of Jews or the shared history of suffering that has united African-Americans. For all the discrimination and segregation Mexican-Americans suffered in the region, the Southwest was never the Deep South. In any case, as the memoirist John Phillip Santos wrote recently, "Mexicans are to forgetting what the Jews are to remembering."
By the late 1990's, both the largely ethnic-Mexican Hispanic Congressional Caucus and the powerful California Latino Legislative Caucus had adopted "Latino issues are American issues" as their mantra. Mexican-Americans are using their growing political power to enter the American mainstream, not to distance themselves from it. The new chairman of the Hispanic Congressional Caucus, Representative Silvestre Reyes, Democrat of Texas, was once a high-ranking Border Patrol official and the architect of Operation Hold the Line, the labor-intensive strategy to stem illegal immigration along the West Texas border. 
Perhaps assuming that Mexicans would (or should) follow the organizational model of Jews or African-Americans, East Coast-based foundations contributed to the founding of national ethnic-Mexican institutions. The New York-based Ford Foundation was instrumental in creating three of the most visible national Mexican-American organizations -- all modeled after similar black organizations.
But with the exception of some scattered homegrown social service organizations and political groups, Mexican-Americans have developed little parallel ethnic infrastructure. One national survey has shown that Mexican-Americans are far more likely to join a non-ethnic civic group than a Hispanic organization. There is no private Mexican-American college similar to Yeshiva University or Morehouse College. In Los Angeles, which has the largest Mexican population in the country, there is no ethnic-Mexican hospital, cemetery or broad-based charity organization. Nor does Los Angeles have an English-language newspaper for Mexican-Americans similar to the black Amsterdam News and the Jewish Forward in New York.
Though the Spanish-language media is often referred to as the "Hispanic media," it generally serves first generation immigrants and not their English-dominant children and grandchildren.
In the late 1920's, Representative John C. Box of Texas warned his colleagues on the House Immigration and Naturalization Committee that the continued influx of Mexican immigrants could lead to the "distressing process of mongrelization" in America. He argued that because Mexicans were the products of mixing among whites, Indians and sometimes blacks, they had a casual attitude toward interracial unions and were likely to mix freely with other races in the United States. 
His vitriol notwithstanding, Mr. Box was right about Mexicans not keeping to themselves. Apart from the cultural isolation of immigrants, subsequent generations are oriented toward the American mainstream. But because Mexican identity has always been more fluid and comfortable with hybridity, assimilation has not been an either/or proposition. For example, Mexican-Americans never had to overcome a cultural proscription against intermarriage. Just as widespread Mexican-Anglo intermarriage helped meld cultures in the 19th-century Southwest, so it does today. In fact, two-thirds of intermarriages in California involve a Latino partner.
ACCORDING to James P. Smith, an economist and immigration scholar at the RAND Corporation, by 2050 more than 40 percent of United States Hispanics will be able to claim multiple ancestries. "Through this process of blending by marriage in the U.S.," he says, "Latino identity becomes something even more nuanced." 
The fact that people of mixed ancestry came to form a greater proportion of the population of Latin America than in Anglo America is the clearest sign of the difference between the two outlooks on race. Mexican-Americans bring the New World notion encompassed by the word mestizaje, or racial and cultural synthesis, to their American experience. In 1925, the romantic Mexican philosopher Jose Vasconcelos wrote that the Latin American mestizo heralds a new post-racialist era in human development. More recently, the preeminent Mexican-American essayist Richard Rodriguez stated, "The essential beauty and mystery of the color brown is that it is a mixture of different colors." 
"Something big happens here at the border that sort of mushes everything together," says Maria Eugenia Guerra, publisher of LareDos, an alternative monthly magazine in Laredo, Texas, a city that has been a majority Latino since its founding in 1755. As political and economic power continues to shift westward, Mexican-Americans will increasingly inject this mestizo vision onto American culture. "The Latinization of America is so profound that no one really sees it," asserts Kevin Starr, the leading historian of California, who is writing a multivolume history of the state. The process of they becoming us will ultimately force us to reconsider the very definition of who we are.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Latino mural towers over a sidewalk in East Los Angeles. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); HISTORY (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); ETHNICITY (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); REFUGEES (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); TRENDS (67%); RESEARCH REPORTS (65%); DRAMA LITERATURE (64%); CENSUS (52%); MARRIAGE (50%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MEXICAN-AMERICANS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; JEWS; MINORITIES (US); BLACKS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES 

PERSON: RODRIGUEZ, GREGORY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



287 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 69 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS: DIARY; 
An Aversion to Economic Pain

 BODY:
 Despite employee concerns about a weakening economy, most American workers are unwilling to sacrifice their quality of life if they lose their jobs, a recent survey shows. Nearly half of workers surveyed by Zogby International, an opinion research firm, said they would hold out for a job comparable to their current one if they were laid off, and nearly two thirds would take a pay cut over moving to a new city. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%) LABOR; PUBLIC OPINION; WAGES AND SALARIES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: ZOGBY INTERNATIONAL INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ZOGBY INTERNATIONAL 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



288 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Romania Seeks to Stay On the Track to Europe 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BUCHAREST, Romania 

 BODY:
The new prime minister, Adrian Nastase, knows that his government represents Romania's last, best chance of catching up with Europe and of reversing the huge popular frustration that fed a sizable vote for neofascism in last December's elections. 
 After 10 years of watching Romania slide deeper into poverty and anger, Western officials, diplomats and investors know it, too. Frustrated by Romania's years of dawdling on economic change, its endemic corruption and narrow-minded political squabbling, they are skeptical. 
 But they are hopeful despite themselves, and frightened of what might happen to this country of 23 million people, if Mr. Nastase, a powerful politician in his own right as the leader of the reformed Communist Party, fails to find a formula for economic transformation and political stability. 
"Most people here, including the political class, understand the challenge," Mr. Nastase said in an interview. "We're committed to democratic and economic reform. What matters now is to build some wise projects that can be financed and implemented. It is very important now for us to keep our work after a long period when the country lost credibility."
Mr. Nastase's foreign minister, Mircea Geoana, said bluntly, "It's only a small exaggeration to say that this is a last chance for Romania to stay on track to join the European Union and NATO," organizations that most Romanians regard as central to the country's future as a stable part of democratic Europe. But Romania lags badly behind other regional aspirants, adding further urgency to Mr. Nastase's task.
"Terrible social conditions and the last election were a cold shower for all of us, a real wake-up call," Mr. Geoana said.
The European Union and the United States are giving the new government the benefit of the doubt for now, diplomats and analysts say. "Romania is probably the most advised nation in the region," said a senior investment banker. "Everyone knows what must be done. But does Romania have the political will to do it? Doubts persist."
Mr. Nastase says that his government does, but he worries about how to balance the need for painful economic change -- which can mean significant new unemployment in a country where 40 percent of people live on less than $1 a day -- with the need for increased social spending to ease the plight of the victims, both new and old.
To that end, he has already begun serious negotiations on a social stability pact with the main trade unions and business associations. And he has made a quiet coalition of convenience, for now, with the minority Hungarian party and the Liberals in Parliament, both of whom want to keep Romania from slipping any further from the European norm.
The large vote in December for Corneliu Vadim Tudor, a flamboyant candidate for the presidency from the neofascist Greater Romania Party, shocked Romania and the West. While Mr. Tudor lost badly in the runoff election to a former president, Ion Iliescu, he did get 30 percent of the vote and his party got 25 percent of the seats in Parliament, making it the largest opposition party. In 1996, when the center-right won the elections, Mr. Tudor's party got only 4 percent of the vote.
Under the center-right and the former president Emil Constantinescu, Romania kept promising substantial economic and political reform, but failed badly to deliver. In the last four years, Mr. Nastase said, the Romanian economy shrank by 18 percent and the standard of living fell by more than 20 percent, with inflation last year more than 40 percent. That record infuriated a population already unhappy with the previous post-Communist stewardship of Mr. Iliescu, who succeeded the toppled dictator, Nicolae Ceausescu, in 1989. 
Mr. Tudor's voters were "a mix of the extreme left and extreme right, and a result of the deep frustration from an important part of the population," Mr. Nastase said.
Mr. Nastase, 50, a professor of international law and foreign minister from 1990 to 1992, is more at ease with the West and the by now familiar requirements of economic transformation than his president, Mr. Iliescu, 70, who has continued to rail against the demands of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. 
And yet the prime minister remains wary of the language of economic reform. "You can't just come here with these words, with everything taken from the international dictionary," he said. "The previous government used the words 'economic reform' for four years and the result was an important economic decline." 
For the moment, Mr. Nastase's greatest concern is the thousands of unemployed miners in the west, in the Jiu Valley, whose riots in 1977 shook the Communist regime, who have descended on Bucharest in mobs twice since Communism fell and who in 1999 were marching on the capital a third time before the government halted the protests by agreeing to keep pits open. The government is planning to create some jobs quickly by building some roads, dams and housing.
The prime minister is also paying attention to the workers of Brasov, with their own radical tradition stemming from a 1987 riot. Mr. Nastase is trying to privatize the Brasov tractor factory while including government orders for its tractors in the agricultural strategy.
"A socialist background can help in Romania," said Istvan Gyarmati, vice president of the East-West Institute and formerly a Hungarian diplomat. "In four years," he said, "we may see that they've done a lot more to reform the country than those under Constantinescu."
The new government has no more than a year to get it right, Mr. Gyarmati said. The foreign minister, Mr. Geoana, who was previously the ambassador to Washington, does not disagree. But he says he is optimistic this time, partly because Romania "now has a critical mass of younger people who grew up in another society, in the post-Communist world." 
Mr. Iliescu, Mr. Nastase and their party have learned some lessons from their past failures, "and now we're scared -- we know that this time we have to really bite the bullet," Mr. Geoana said.
The government is planning to cut corporate taxes and bureaucratic requirements, reduce inflation to less than 25 percent and keep the budget deficit to between 3 and 4 percent of gross domestic product. It hopes to make a deal with the International Monetary Fund by mid-May, unfreezing credits suspended last fall, an important signal to foreign investors.
"And the economy is turning up anyway," Mr. Geoana said, smiling. "We deserve a little bit of luck, too."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The prime minister of Romania, Adrian Nastase, speaking to Parliament. His government knows it has to work on major economic issues. (Agence France-Presse) Map of Romania highlighting Bucharest: New leaders in Bucharest say they are committed to reform.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TRENDS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); CORRUPTION (56%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; NASTASE, ADRIAN (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROMANIA (99%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); HUNGARY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) ROMANIA

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



289 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1636 words

HEADLINE: On Wall St., More Investors Push Social Goals 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

 BODY:
For years, John Rempel struggled to find investments that did not make him feel guilty.
 Mr. Rempel, a 56-year-old Mennonite minister, had some false starts, once discovering that a mining company in his portfolio did business with a South American dictator. But he was thrilled to find a group of mutual funds designed by Mennonites for Mennonites that shuns military contractors, tobacco companies and casino operators. 
 Socially responsible investing, as it is called by many investors no matter what their ideology, has been around for decades. But now, as it grows far more popular, it is becoming increasingly Balkanized, with offerings customized to many faiths and beliefs. Three companies now offer Muslims mutual funds or customized stock accounts that do not invest in banks because charging interest runs counter to Islamic principles. Some of the funds will not even buy bonds. 
A fund for Christian Scientists does not buy the stocks of drug manufacturers, medical equipment makers, biotechnology companies or hospital chains. Some funds aimed at socially conservative Christians will not invest in companies that sell alcohol, tobacco or pornography or own casinos, or in medical companies with ties to the performing of abortions. There are also funds for Catholics, Lutherans and Seventh-day Adventists. 
One mutual fund will invest only in companies that support gay and lesbian rights; another shuns such companies. 
Salomon Smith Barney, owned by Citigroup, even runs a fund for animal lovers, disdaining companies that do not meet Humane Society standards for testing that uses animals, that make hunting and trapping equipment and that sell meat and other animal products. And most such funds avoid tobacco companies.
The new standards have entered almost every conceivable field of investment. There are socially responsible funds offering high-yield junk bonds, technology stocks and international stocks, not to mention the stocks of small, medium-size and large companies. There are socially responsible personalized accounts, annuities and money market and venture capital funds. 
Clients can use the accounts to pursue their social issues, down to excising a specific stock that makes them uncomfortable. And for investors lacking the minimum amount for a customized private account, there is Foliofn, an Internet start-up that sells a half-dozen customized socially responsible portfolios. 
The many new opportunities are a big change from past decades, when this type of investing usually meant avoiding nuclear power producers, companies deemed to discriminate against minorities and weapons makers.
Executives of the financial institutions now jumping in say that socially responsible investing can also produce stronger returns, though some experts find the evidence at best inconclusive. "There is a correlation between good practices and good investment results," said Philip Angelides, the state treasurer of California and a board member of Calpers, California's $165 billion public employees pension fund and the nation's largest investment fund of any kind. "People in the investment industry often want to put up a wall between the two things, but they are related."
In the last six months, Calpers has become a gargantuan version of a socially responsible fund. It has agreed to shed tobacco companies and recently decided to avoid investments in countries that restrict press and political freedoms and lack protections for workers' rights (though the Clinton and Bush administrations have often favored economic engagement to promote civil liberties). Calpers has also created funds that invest in inner cities and urban areas. 
"Smart investors don't blind themselves to the way social values and practices affect investment returns," Mr. Angelides added.
Socially responsible funds are more widely available now than ever before. In the last year, companies like Ford Motor, Hewlett-Packard and Gap have added the $1.4 billion Domini Social Equity fund, one of the older such funds, as a choice in their retirement plans. At the same time, two investment industry giants have started their own socially responsible mutual funds: TIAA-CREF, which already runs about $4 billion worth of social funds in its retirement plans for teachers, and the Vanguard Group, the nation's second-largest manager of mutual funds. 
John Brennan, chief executive of Vanguard, said the company had been studying socially responsible investing for several years but only recently decided to enter the field. "It has seasoned as a concept and that makes managing one more practical, as opposed to it being an issue du jour," Mr. Brennan said. "We come out with products that we expect to endure forever." 
Most of the growth has taken place in the last few years. Between 1997 and 1999, portfolios screened for social responsibility grew to $1.5 trillion from $529 billion, mostly in private stock accounts, according to the Social Investment Forum, a trade group that surveyed several hundred investment firms. Though that number seems optimistic to some industry watchers, almost everyone agrees that the movement has grown significantly. 
The concept traces its recent roots back to the Vietnam era, and the creation, in 1971, of the Pax World Balanced Fund, a mutual fund that avoids the military industry. 
But today's funds go far beyond the traditional pacifist and environmental concerns. The Timothy Plan, an investment firm based in Winter Park, Fla., that takes its name from a letter written by the apostle Paul, is one of several that cater to what they call conservative Christians.
The Timothy funds, with $56 million and more than 5,000 shareholders, avoid alcohol, tobacco, gambling and pornography stocks, and any involved with abortion. "We won't own hospital chains that perform abortions," said Arthur Ally, president and founder of the Timothy Plan.
Mr. Ally's flagship fund, the Timothy Plan Small Cap Value, invests in small companies that have fallen from favor. It performed near the bottom of its category for several years after its founding in 1994, according to the fund-tracking firm Morningstar. 
Many investors stayed with Mr. Ally, but others were not so forgiving. "There were those that thought if they invested in Timothy they'd have top returns, that the Lord would bless them," he said. "When that didn't happen, some of them went to better-performing funds." 
The fund's performance has improved in recent years under new managers. Mr. Ally, meanwhile, has started three stock funds, a bond fund, a money market fund and two funds meant as all-in-one investments. "Now we're a one-stop shop," he said, adding that he expected Christian funds to eventually outdraw their more secular cousins.
Not that they cannot sometimes agree. Both Microsoft and Intel show up in the Meyers Pride Value fund, which invests only in companies that oppose discrimination against gays and lesbians, and the Noah Fund, which aims to uphold what it calls strict Biblical values.
Socially responsible funds have historically concentrated on screening out companies they will not buy, then choosing freely among the rest.
Now, however, more firms are seeking out companies that fit their ideals. The Domini fund family of New York favors companies that have good relations with unions, generous retirement benefits and strong pollution-prevention programs. 
All this extra work costs money. For Domini, 21 analysts screen companies according to various social criteria. As a result, the Domini Social Equity fund has fees that are somewhat high for an index fund, though lower than most socially responsible funds. 
Despite the fees, the fund has beaten the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index over the last five years. Social investing advocates say eliminating a few hundred companies out of thousands is hardly a handicap, and that responsible companies are more likely to be profitable. 
"The previous doubt was that you couldn't do it without giving up returns, but funds like Domini show that you can," said Catherine Hickey, an analyst for Morningstar.
Costs, however, can be a greater concern for funds that are too small to absorb their added expenses easily. Vanguard and TIAA-CREF, both known for having minimal expenses, are likely to further increase the pressure on these funds. 
For some investors, like Mr. Rempel, the choice is easy. The average investor, after all, might not have a poster of the 16th-century Dutch humanist and Catholic theologian Erasmus over his desk, near a worn copy of "The Essential Erasmus." 
"I began having questions about what you were endorsing if you bought stocks in certain companies back in the early 1980's," said Mr. Rempel, who grew up in Kitchener, Ontario, a former Mennonite settlement west of Toronto, and now serves as his faith's representative to the United Nations. 
When he told his stockbroker what he had learned, from a newspaper, about the South American activities of the mining company he held, the broker was sympathetic, but said, "You can't be in stocks if you're going to ask moral questions." 
He withdrew his money from the market and bought farmland with other Mennonites. "It was a fiasco," he said. "I ended up losing all of my father's inheritance."
In 1989, when he moved to Manhattan to become minister of the borough's only Mennonite church, he did not have much left. "The job here was on a subsistence salary," he said. "Then, when I started earning a little more money, I started wondering what to do with it."
In 1994, MMA/Praxis, an independent arm of the Mennonite church, started its own mutual fund. Today, the group has $300 million in four mutual funds and what some see as a double bottom line: to make money and to invest morally. 
"It sounds hokey," Mr. Rempel said recently, "but this was what I was looking for."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Rempel, a Mennonite minister, says he was thrilled when an independent arm of the Mennonite church started its own mutual fund. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 32) Chart: "Different Definitions of Responsibility"A growing number of funds have been set up to invest in a socially responsible manner. But there are many different ideas about what this means. INVESTMENT FUNDS OR GROUPS: Domini FundsASSETS (MILLIONS): $1,900WHAT THEY WON'T BUY: Alcohol, tobacco, gambling, nuclear power, pesticides and military contracting.COMPANIES THAT DON'T MAKE THE CUT: Philip Morris, DuPont, General Electric INVESTMENT FUNDS OR GROUPS: American Trust Allegiance Fund (Christian Scientists)ASSETS (MILLIONS): 38WHAT THEY WON'T BUY: Alcohol, gambling, tobacco and health care.COMPANIES THAT DON'T MAKE THE CUT: Merck, Amgen, Johnson & Johnson INVESTMENT FUNDS OR GROUPS: MMA/Praxis (Mennonites)ASSETS (MILLIONS): 1,200WHAT THEY WON'T BUY: Alcohol, tobacco, gambling and military contracting.COMPANIES THAT DON'T MAKE THE CUT: Boeing, TotalFinaElf, Anheuser-Busch INVESTMENT FUNDS OR GROUPS: Amana Funds (Muslims)ASSETS (MILLIONS): 50WHAT THEY WON'T BUY: Liquor, wine, casinos, pornography, insurance, gambling, pork processing and banks. Also no bonds, debentures, or other interest paying securities.COMPANIES THAT DON'T MAKE THE CUT: Citigroup, AIG, Philip Morris INVESTMENT FUNDS OR GROUPS: Vanguard Calvert Social Index Fund*ASSETS (MILLIONS): 62WHAT THEY WON'T BUY: Tobacco, alcohol, gambling, military contracting, nuclear power, or companies deemed to have unfair labor practices.COMPANIES THAT DON'T MAKE THE CUT: General Electric, ExxonMobil INVESTMENT FUNDS OR GROUPS: California Public Employees' Retirement SystemASSETS (MILLIONS): 165,000WHAT THEY WON'T BUY: Tobacco companies or companies in foreign countries that restrict freedom of the press, political freedom or worker's rights.COMPANIES THAT DON'T MAKE THE CUT: Philip Morris, Loews INVESTMENT FUNDS OR GROUPS: The Timothy Plan funds (Conservative Christians)ASSETS (MILLIONS): 56WHAT THEY WON'T BUY: Pornography, alcohol, tobacco, gambling. Also no insurers, hospital chains, or drug makers involved in abortions; companies that provide domestic partner benefits, or entertainment producers deemed anti-family.COMPANIES THAT DON'T MAKE THE CUT: AOL TimeWarner, Sony, Disney INVESTMENT FUNDS OR GROUPS: Meyers Pride Value Fund (gays and lesbians)ASSETS (MILLIONS): 12WHAT THEY WON'T BUY: Companies that do not have, at a minimum, stated policies against discrimination in hiring and promotion based on sexual orientation.COMPANIES THAT DON'T MAKE THE CUT: Cracker Barrel (CBRL Group), ExxonMobil *Vanguard's fund tracks an index created by the Calvert Group, a Maryland investment firm that describes itself as socially responsible.Note: Some of these firms also favor companies that fit their ideal of social responsiblity.(Sources: Company Web sites; Morningstar; S.E.C. filings)(pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); ETHICAL INVESTING (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); BONDS (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (77%); STARTUPS (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); TOBACCO MFG (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); MEDICAL DEVICES (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); CASINOS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (71%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (70%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (69%); ANIMALS (69%); HOSPITALS (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (68%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (68%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (68%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (68%); PORNOGRAPHY (67%); LGBT RIGHTS (65%); MEATS (64%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); POWER PLANTS (60%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (60%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (50%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; ISLAM; CHRISTIAN SCIENCE; CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY; HOMOSEXUALITY 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMANE SOCIETY (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



290 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1668 words

HEADLINE: Shifts in Europe Pose Prickly Challenge to U.S. 

BYLINE:  By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: BERLIN, Feb. 10 

 BODY:
A little phrase from Rudolf Scharping, the German defense minister, recently caused American military commanders to shudder: "As the European Union develops its security and defense policy and becomes an independent actor, we must determine our security policy with Russia, our biggest neighbor."
 The specter of Europe -- and particularly its central power, Germany -- adopting a more independent stance from NATO and paying close heed to Russia is chilling for the United States, and hard to reconcile with the Atlantic alliance that has preserved Europe's stability and advanced American interests for more than a half-century. 
 The alliance is not about to fall apart: too much is at stake for that, not least the peace of mind of the many Europeans who still believe this continent is inherently unstable unless America is present. But as Mr. Scharping's words suggest, something fundamental has shifted in the transatlantic relationship. 
The 15-member European Union, long a mere trade bloc ultimately protected by American power, has begun to develop into a grouping with its own serious military and strategic ambitions. Where exactly such ambitions are directed remains uncertain, but this much seems clear: the scope of Europe's quest for an altered balance of power in its post-cold war ties with Washington is not yet fully appreciated by the Bush administration.
Addressing the allies for the first time last week in Munich, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld did not use the words "European Union" once.
It was this omission -- as much as Mr. Rumsfeld's stark warning to the Europeans to avoid "actions that could reduce NATO's effectiveness by confusing duplication or by perturbing the transatlantic link" -- that was noted in European capitals.
"It appeared that the European Union was not yet on Mr. Rumsfeld's radar screen," said Wolfgang Ischinger, a senior official in the German Foreign Ministry. "Of course, it was not a factor the last time he was in office. But the fact is the development of the Union's defense identity is an accelerating process that it would be a mistake to oppose."
Already, the European Union has set up a military planning staff, established a so-called political and security committee and is readying a 60,000-member rapid reaction force. At the same time, most of the Union is less than a year away from the fast-forward to a European identity likely to occur when the euro becomes the currency on the streets of Barcelona, Brussels and Berlin. The euro was always a political project; its politics involve forging a united Europe as a counterweight to American dominance. 
How the Europeans finesse their challenge to American superpower assumptions has yet to be defined. France, for example, wants Europe's new military arm to be "independent" from NATO, or at least equipped to be so; Britain rejects such ideas as destabilizing Gallic dreams. But Europe has clearly decided to create the embryo of an army because it has determined that this is in its interest, because it believes that this is the only way to convince skeptical electorates of the need to increase defense spending, and because it views the development as an essential complement to economic and political integration.
It wants to be treated as a bloc and as an equal within the alliance, so ending the relationship of a single superpower to a bunch of far smaller allies. For Joschka Fischer, the German foreign minister, such European integration amounts to a "historical process" and, as such, is unstoppable -- even by America.
The parallels are obvious to another development portrayed as unstoppable and inevitable by President Bush: the American construction and deployment of a system of national missile defense of which Europeans remain suspicious.
As these two projects -- Europe's rapid reaction force, America's missile shield -- confront each other, a profound change in transatlantic relations seems clear. At other times of post-war tensions, like the resistance in Germany, Italy, Britain and elsewhere to the deployment of new medium-range missiles in the early 1980's, the arguments centered on a European reaction to an American-directed policy.
This time, however, both Europe and the United States are pushing ideas they perceive to be in their inviolable interests. Neither is ready to budge. Each will have to accommodate the other. In this sense, the European Union has become an "actor" -- unwieldy, underfunded -- but still a body that acts as well as reacts.
Across the broad range of European-American differences -- from subsidies for the new Airbus "Superjumbo" aircraft to what diplomats now call the "social conflicts" over issues like gun control, the death penalty and the use of genetically modified food -- this growing European coherence weighs heavily.
The issues may prove especially intractable because, as Mr. Ischinger noted, "We now have a different thinking about power and structures."
Europeans have just traded in a lot of their national sovereignty for the euro and so view the world very much in multilateral terms. The United States remains fiercely attached to its sovereignty; the new administration wants to bolster national defense as it questions automatic recourse to multilateralism.
As at any time of strategic flux, there seem to be real dangers of misunderstanding. "Increased European capabilities are a political imperative for both sides of the Atlantic," said Gen. Wesley K. Clark, the former NATO commander in Europe who retired recently. "But the evolution of European capabilities should not distance the European Union from NATO. Europe must not become a middle ground between NATO on the one hand and Russia on the other."
A lot of thinking has already gone into ensuring this does not happen. NATO and the European Union are going to meet at ambassadorial level six times a year and at ministerial level at least once a year to ensure that, to use Mr. Rumsfeld's phrase, Europe's new defense plans do not end up "injecting instability" into the alliance. These meetings will involve bizarre overlapping -- 11 of NATO's 19 members are also members of the European Union -- but reflect a determination to avoid misunderstandings. Still, many American questions remain.
What missions exactly is the new European force to serve? When, if ever, would Europe want to act militarily without the United States? Will scarce resources not be diverted from NATO? Is duplication not inevitable?
American officials also ask whether it would not be better to increase defense spending -- a mere 1.4 percent of gross national product in Germany compared to about 3.5 percent in the United States -- rather than paying for new institutions. And they wonder why Congress should approve funding for NATO if Europe has its own defense structure.
"The danger is that the Europeans will set up the European Union as a competitor and alternative to NATO," said one American military expert. "Then they say to the Russians, 'Don't worry, work with us, we know the United States is too forceful.' At that point, different geography and different interests become impossible to contain within NATO."
The Europeans dismiss such concerns. They point to the fact that the United States -- most recently in the Balkans -- has repeatedly called on Europe to become more capable of projecting force and acting coherently. They recall the Kosovo war, where the European contribution was compromised by the continent's technological arrears. They say a strong alliance for the 21st century must be a balanced one.
At present, there are only about 50 centralized European military planning staff -- compared to more than eight times that at NATO military headquarters. Britain, backed by Germany, argues for planning to remain essentially under NATO's control.
But France wants Europe to have a large and independent military planning staff. Meanwhile, Turkey -- an alliance member angered at being excluded from the nascent European forces -- has balked at allowing NATO to plan for the Europeans.
In the end, however, it seems clear that Europe needs America -- for the practical military reason that only America has the airlift, reconnaissance and intelligence equipment to make a mission feasible, and for the strategic reason that in a Europe where America is no longer a power, German power becomes uncomfortably conspicuous.
And Mr. Bush may find that he needs the Europeans for his national missile defense system -- for the practical reason that a deep transatlantic rift would be very costly in trade and other areas, and strategically to preserve alliances. 
For now, the Europeans seem ready to adopt a wait-and-see approach to Mr. Bush's idea. Their resistance is real and their concerns serious: what if, for example, China increases its missile force, exports missiles and thus goads India into following suit?
Mr. Bush's plan now seems to be part of a general military reassessment that could involve large unilateral cuts in the American nuclear arsenal. As such, it is certain to be more palatable to the Europeans.
"On missile defense, we have decided on a soft approach combined with pressing questions," said Mr. Ischinger. "But the Americans must understand that no real military threats are perceived by most Germans and there is no way we can sell a larger defense budget unless we push forward the creation of a European force."
Such "understanding" still has to be reached in Washington. "Weaken NATO and we weaken Europe, which weakens all of us," Mr. Rumsfeld said in Munich, at the gathering where Mr. Scharping alarmed Americans with his glimpse of other defense options. The fact is that a stronger, more united, less vulnerable Europe, with no enemy at its door, no longer sees its interests in such straightforward terms.
One senior NATO official likened the adjustments now needed in the alliance as a result of Europe's growing cohesion and ambitions to "brain surgery -- important, essential, doable, but if it goes wrong, a disaster."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Officials conferring yesterday at the security conference in Munich were, from left, Defense Minister Alain Richard of France; Lord Robertson, the NATO leader; Defense Minister Rudolf Scharping of Germany and Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld of the United States. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (91%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); BELGIUM (79%) EUROPE; RUSSIA; GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



291 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3251 words

HEADLINE: Chasing Mexico's Dream Into Squalor 

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico 

 BODY:
Often looking as if he had slept in his clothes, Salvador Duron does not cut the most distinguished figure. But even with his gray stubble and grease-stained fingers, he is welcomed like a king into the shantytowns at the edge of this teeming city on the border with the United States.
 Mr. Duron is the water man. 
 Maneuvering his 15-ton tanker up jagged mesas and down narrow ravines, he delivers water to people the city cannot afford to supply. He is an everyday hero to those who live in the cardboard shacks beneath the broiling border sun. 
To the local government, he is a crucial part of the struggle to absorb the tidal wave of workers drawn here each week by increased trade between the United States and Mexico. In the last five years more than one million Mexicans have moved to the border. Many come not to cross the border but to work in thousands of mostly foreign-owned manufacturing plants, known as maquiladoras.
The factories sprouted in the mid-1960's, when Mexico and the United States began an industrialization program along their border to ease chronic unemployment in Mexico. Then with the North American Free Trade Agreement came even more jobs, more shantytowns -- and more demand for Mr. Duron.
Most days, he feels as if he cannot keep up. Parking his truck atop a ridge that a year ago was the end of his route, Mr. Duron pointed to hundreds of new shacks reaching out toward the horizon. A mother and three small children emerged from one of the hovels and waved desperately for him to bring water their way. 
"The city keeps getting bigger and bigger," he said. "There's no way to get water to everyone who needs it." 
Ciudad Juarez, whose people he tries to supply, is only one dot in a rash of overflowing cities and towns from Tijuana to Matamoros. Hundreds of the world's wealthiest companies -- Alcoa, Delphi Automotive Systems, General Electric and others -- have set up manufacturing plants south of the border, drawn by lucrative tax breaks and cheap labor. While factories pay nearly triple the Mexican minimum wage -- about $4 a day -- workers here make in a day less than their American counterparts earn in an hour. 
The explosion has created one of the most dynamic industrial zones in the Americas -- and all of the problems associated with explosive growth. The overwhelmed Mexican border cities lack the means to provide the most basic services. One of the country's powerful drug cartels holds sway here in Juarez and drug-related crime is common. Dozens of women who have come to work in the maquiladoras have been abducted, tortured, raped and murdered, their bodies tossed like garbage in the desert.
All along the border, the land, the water and the air are thick with industrial and human waste. The National Water Commission reports that the towns and cities, strapped for funds, can adequately treat less than 35 percent of the sewage generated daily. About 12 percent of the people living on the border have no reliable access to clean water. Nearly a third live in homes that are not connected to sewage systems. Only about half the streets are paved.
Mirror images of these communities dot parts of the Texas side of the line. Last year the third world conditions became an issue in the presidential race between Al Gore and George W. Bush. Democrats accused the Texas governor of ignoring 400,000 people who live in more than 1,400 unincorporated encampments, or colonias. Mr. Bush lashed back, saying that he and his supporters had done more to bring water, sewage and sanitation services to people than any previous administration.
The new Mexican president, Vicente Fox, has pledged to pump more money into the border region and to lure more workers to Mexico's south. A range of border issues are likely to be raised on Feb. 16 when President Bush visits Mr. Fox's ranch. One of the most pressing crises, officials on both sides agree, is water.
Mexican officials worry that American proposals to send more water to California from the Colorado River could create even more severe water shortages for farms on the Mexican side of the border.
Ciudad Juarez, which grows by about 50,000 people a year, is running out of water. The underground aquifer the city relies on has declined by about five feet a year. At that rate, officials estimate, there will be no usable water left in 20 years. Levels in many of the city's wells are so low that they have collapsed.
"The reality of Juarez is the reality of the whole border," said Gustavo Elizondo, the mayor of Juarez. "You have a city that produces great wealth, but that sits in the eye of a storm. In one way it is a place of opportunity for the international community. But we have no way to provide water, sewage and sanitation for all the people who come to work.
"Every year we get poorer and poorer," he added, "even though we create more and more wealth."

Beyond Her Dreams: $10 a Day
Last fall, Nora Lydia Urias Perez, a 29-year-old single mother, arrived in Nogales, a border city about 60 miles south of Tucson, with humble aspirations: a job with steady pay and benefits.
A native of the Gulf Coast state of Veracruz, Ms. Urias tried to support herself and her daughter there by working seasonal farm jobs. But on $5 a day, she found it harder and harder to pay for basic necessities.
Within a week she was hired at a small maquiladora (pronounced mah-kee-lah-DOH-rah) assembly line that produced staplers for the Swingline stapler plant, which had been situated in Long Island City, Queens. Her salary exceeded her dreams, she said. It was almost $10 a day.
Her biggest challenge was finding a place to live. She had considered sharing an apartment with 10 others, she said. But she did not want to pay rent, so she decided to move instead to a shanty community outside of town.
With only a pocketknife and their strong arms, she and her father cleared the brush and boulders from a small patch of land in the tumbledown barrio. All around them were hundreds of dwellings in various stages of completion. The best ones, usually inhabited by families who had worked long enough to save money for conventional building materials, were simple structures with walls of concrete block and tin roofs. The newest arrivals built flimsier homes, patched together from crates, old tires and cardboard.
None of the dwellings had running water. None were connected to city sewage lines. Hundreds of improvised electricity wires crisscrossed the dirt roads. The air was filled with the smells of human waste and burning garbage.
But to Ms. Urias, a slender woman with a boyish haircut, it seemed a promised land. She aimed to build a one-room house out of concrete there, something small, but sturdy enough for her 5-year-old daughter to feel comfortable and safe.
In time, she plans to add on. She and her neighbors will one day have safe drinking water and plumbing. And they will, she hopes, win title to the land they have settled. But for now, it was enough for Ms. Urias that she would have a place of her own and a job that paid her year round.
"I am not saying that it will be easy to start life here," she acknowledged, stopping her work to gaze around the shabby community. "But at least there is a chance that things for me will get better. There was no chance of that in Veracruz. I had no hope."
Tens of thousands of workers who come to the border each year cling to the same hope. They spend their days working at some of the most advanced factories in the country, churning out products for dozens of Fortune 500 companies.
And at night, often with only the mildest complaints, they live in squalor. According to a national survey, more than half of the families in Tijuana live below the poverty line, and only 5 percent of all families are able to meet their basic needs without difficulty.
Some of the workers' hideous settlements are in the shadow of the modern factories. Less than a few miles away from a maquiladora park that towers over the east side of Juarez, children attend classes in old school buses that feel like ovens under the desert sun. The community was connected to the city water system last year but residents still had no plumbing. City officials say that a school will be completed sometime this year.
On the west side of Juarez, in a workers' settlement called Anapra that was established almost 20 years ago, residents still do not have running water and indoor plumbing. They wait for the water man.
"He is one of my favorite people in the world," grinned 36-year-old Maria Elena Beltran de Medina, speaking of Mr. Duron. Mrs. Medina, whose husband drives a bus that carries maquiladora workers to their jobs, said she was learning to make do with the couple of barrels of water Mr. Duron delivered to her house each week.
She and her children take baths together, twice a week. She uses the same bucket of water to wash laundry and water her cucumber and tomato plants. She drinks one glass of water a day and tries to give her children as much as they want, within reason.
"Right now it's cooler, so they do not get as thirsty," she said. "But in the summer, they need a lot of water. And there is not always enough."

All Those Jobs Can Be Deceptive
With 1.3 million residents, Ciudad Juarez stands like Goliath next to its American neighbor, El Paso, which has a population of a little more than 700,000. Set on the Rio Grande at the point where Mexico touches Texas and New Mexico, Juarez is a metropolis racked by drug-related crime. And the increased presence of the United States Border Patrol often makes the bridges that connect the two cities feel like hostile militarized zones.
Juarez is also an economic powerhouse, the seventh largest city in Mexico with one of the strongest local economies. There are nearly 300 maquiladoras here. Mayor Elizondo said that last year an average of two new plants opened each month, generating 40,000 new jobs. The term maquiladora comes from the Mexican colonial term maquila, which was the fee millers charged to grind corn into meal. The modern version allowed manufacturers to import raw materials duty free, process them into fully or partially assembled goods and ship them back to the United States.
As Juarez helps drive an economic boom in northern Mexico, El Paso lags as an emblem of the persistent poverty that has dogged American cities across the divide. El Paso has lost more than 10,000 manufacturing jobs since Nafta took effect on Jan. 1, 1994. Some were lost when several apparel factories closed because of declining profits, said Thomas M. Fullerton, a border scholar at the University of Texas at El Paso. Others were relocated to Mexico, he said.
Professor Fullerton said that per capita income in El Paso, about $17,000, is only 60 percent of the average income in the United States. And, he said, the 9 percent unemployment rate is about twice the average unemployment rate in Texas.
It is a similar story in most of the major twin cities that straddle the border. Six of the 15 poorest metropolitan areas in the United States -- El Paso, McAllen, Laredo, Brownsville, all in Texas, as well as Las Cruces, N.M., and Yuma, Ariz. -- are on the border with Mexico.
"They are regions that have been poor for decades," said James T. Peach, an economist at New Mexico State University. "The expectations were that Nafta would change all of that due to increased trade opportunities. That turned out to be a false hope."
Juarez's robust economic indicators are deceiving, said Mayor Elizondo, who considers his city more of a poor country cousin to El Paso.
In 1999, he said, Juarez generated $1.4 billion in direct federal taxes, but its $120 million budget last year was about a quarter of El Paso's operating budget. And Juarez's population is almost twice that of El Paso. In fact, according to city officials, Juarez's budget last year was only slightly larger than the budget for the El Paso Police Department.
Like other mayors of Mexican border cities, Juarez's mayor complained that his city did not get a fair share of the wealth it generated. The mayors are urging President Fox to pursue fiscal reforms so that they will get more money for the infrastructure demands of their growing populations. And quietly, they are discussing ways to get maquiladora operators to cover the costs of roads, water and sewage treatment.
Humberto Inzunza, former president of a maquiladora owners' association, said that last year maquiladora revenues were about $16 billion. The companies, he said, paid an estimated $400 million in corporate income taxes to Mexico, an amount equal to about 2.5 percent of their revenues. They paid another $1.3 billion in social security taxes last year, for some 1.3 million workers. The factories did not have to pay duty on the raw materials they brought into Mexico, nor on the finished products they shipped back to the United States. 
That has slowly begun to change, said John Christman, an economic consultant in Mexico City at Maquiladora Industries Service of Ciemex-Wefa. Under a Nafta provision that took effect last month, maquiladora operators are required to pay taxes on machines and equipment that they import for their Mexican plants. And, he said, companies that use raw materials from non-Nafta nations would be charged duties when they export their products back to the United States.
Many of the maquiladoras make annual "contributions" to their local governments to help pay for important projects. In Juarez, maquiladora operators contribute an average of $15 per employee, almost $1.5 million a year.
"It's better than nothing, but really what they give is a minuscule part of all the money they are able to make by having their factories in Mexico," Mr. Elizondo said. "What the maquilas provide to Mexico are jobs. And that is good. It is very good. But it is not enough."
Maquiladora managers disagree. Michael Hissam, the spokesman for Delphi Automotive Systems in Mexico, said the company, the world's largest auto parts maker, operates about 18 plants in Juarez alone and dozens of other plants from Queretaro to Matamoros. Last year, he said, the company paid $37 million in income and payroll taxes. And in Juarez, Delphi gave a $300,000 contribution to the local maquiladora association for infrastructure improvements.
All of the company's plants have full medical facilities, recycling programs and rigorous safety programs, Mr. Hissam said. And many of the plants provide transportation for their workers. Four years ago Delphi began a cooperative program with the Mexican government, and a private home building company to help assembly-line workers with at least one year of seniority buy homes. The program, Mr. Hissam said, has not only helped the company lower turnover rates -- which can exceed more than 100 percent a year -- it also allowed Delphi to assist almost 3,000 of its 18,000 workers in Juarez move into decent homes.
The dwellings are typically 1,000-square-feet units with one to two bedrooms.
"We feel we have been paying our fair share for a long time," Mr. Hissam said. Referring to Juarez, he added, "This is our city, too, and we want to do for our city the best we can."

Mixed Results, Unmet Promises
 Experts estimate that it will take nearly $20 billion to meet the infrastructure needs of the border population. Under intense pressure from environmental groups, the United States and Mexican governments agreed to provide a small chunk of those funds through a development bank that was established in a side accord to Nafta. The North American Development Bank was set up to lend to local border agencies for water-related projects, including treatment plants and sewer systems.
Without doubt, the bank projects have made a difference. Earlier this year, Juarez opened its first waste water treatment plant to help decontaminate 75 million gallons of sewage dumped daily into the Rio Grande. In Reynosa, the bank is helping finance a sewage system, because most of the old one had worn away, leaving muddy veins instead of pipes. And it helped pay for workshops for Mexican utility managers, whose overburdened agencies often use outdated systems and have no reliable ways to deliver services nor to collect fees from consumers.
In all, the agency, which is jointly financed by the Mexican and United States governments, has provided about $277 million for 32 projects along the border over the last four years. But it had promised much more. The goal was to make almost $3 billion in loans to pay for water projects on the border. But so far, it has operated more like a philanthropic organization than a bank. Less than 5 percent of the bank's loan money has been used.
Suzanne Gallagher, the director of project administration at the bank, said that many municipal agencies along the border are not able to obtain the kinds of loans they need to fix their enormous infrastructure problems. So most of the bank's participation in projects has come in the form of grants from the United States Environmental Protection Agency. 
Leaders of environmental groups who had warily supported Nafta because they believed in the promises of the bank have been disappointed. 
"The challenges are still there," said Jake Caldwell, a policy specialist at the National Wildlife Federation. "The results have been mixed."
Reflecting his commitment to addressing the crisis, Mr. Fox appointed Ernesto Ruffo, a former border state governor as czar of the border. In an interview, Mr. Ruffo said that the Fox administration was exploring ways to attract foreign investment and secure loans for infrastructure projects.
Before he was inaugurated in December, Mr. Fox met with directors at at the North American Development Bank and backed the idea of expanding the agency's role in a wider range of projects. Mr. Fox has also said that he would support changes to make it easier for municipalities to qualify for loans.
Mr. Ruffo said that the new president would look for ways to increase taxes on maquiladoras to help pay for employee housing programs.
"Our people will have houses that are small but honorable," Mr. Ruffo said. "And we are going to ask companies to collaborate on the costs of these houses because they have seen that Mexican workers are responsible, and loyal and want to learn more. But they cannot learn and grow unless they have stable living conditions."
That kind of talk, said Mr. Christman, the economic consultant, has made maquiladora managers very nervous.
"I think you will see a slowdown in the growth of the maquiladora industry until we see how big the increases will be," he said.
Mr. Ruffo seemed aware of those concerns. "We do not want to raise tariffs to the point that companies decide to leave Mexico," he said, "but we also have to find ways to finance the construction of sufficient infrastructure."
However, he and other border experts agreed that money was not the most important part of the solution. Any improvements would not last beyond the next decade, border officials have said, if growth continues at the current pace.
"We can keep pouring more money into the border," said Gina Weber, the United States-Mexico coordinator for the E.P.A. "But if people come at the rate that demographers are forecasting, we will never be able to fix all the problems."

The Dividing Line

This is the first of two articles about life on the Mexican side of the border. A second article will examine the strains between workers and management at one plant. Additional coverage is available at The New York Times on the Web:
www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Anapra, near the border, workers lack basics like running water. (Christ Chavez for The New York Times)(pg. 1); THE JOB SEEKERS -- Good wages in maquiladora plants draw many into border cities. In Ciudad Juarez, workers assemble car parts. (Joe Raedle/Liaison); THE WATER HERO -- Salvador Duron's deliveries make him indispensable in places where Juarez supplies no running water. (Joe Raedle/Liaison); UNCERTAIN LIGHT -- In Juarez classrooms without electricity, reading can be hard. (Christ Chavez for The New York Times)(pg. 6) Chart: "On the Border"Lured by jobs in American-owned plants, more than one million people in the last five years have migrated from Mexico's impoverished south to cities along the northern border. A surge in plants, and growing environmental problems Nationwide figures. About 60 percent of plants are on the border. Chart shows the location of plants United States and Mexico border.(Source: Twin Plant News)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLUM DWELLINGS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (88%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (88%); CITY LIFE (77%); TRENDS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); CITIES (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); CARTELS (66%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (66%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (60%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); CHILDREN (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); DELPHI AUTOMOTIVE LLP (52%); ALCOA INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); AAI (ASX) (52%); AA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (52%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (52%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (52%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (52%)

PERSON: THOMPSON, GINGER 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%) MEXICO; CIUDAD JUAREZ (MEXICO)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



292 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4154 words

PERSON: Abraham D. Beame 

HEADLINE: Abraham Beame Is Dead at 94; Mayor During 70's Fiscal Crisis 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT D. McFADDEN 

 BODY:
Abraham D. Beame, an accountant and clubhouse Democrat who climbed the gray ranks of municipal bookkeeping and confounded oddsmakers to become mayor of New York in the mid-1970's, only to spend his term struggling with the worst fiscal calamity in the city's history, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 94.
 Mr. Beame, who lived on Manhattan's Upper East Side and since his retirement from politics had been an investment adviser, died of complications from open heart surgery, said his son, Bernard. Mr. Beame had a history of cardiac problems; he had a mild heart attack in 1991 and had been hospitalized since suffering another heart attack last July 17. He underwent open heart surgery in August and again in December. 
 The Beame era was only four years, from 1974 through 1977, but it was tumultuous. The mayor, 67 when he took office, had to cope with terrorist bombs exploding in office buildings and department stores; a citywide blackout that led to arson, looting and 3,000 arrests; and a psychopathic killer called Son of Sam, who shot six people dead, wounded seven others and terrorized the city. 
It was not all murder and mayhem. In 1976, New York was the focus of the nation's euphoric Bicentennial celebration, and, after considerable lobbying by Mr. Beame, played host to the city's first national political convention in 52 years as the Democrats gathered to nominate Jimmy Carter.
But it was the fiscal crisis that dominated the news -- and Abe Beame's City Hall -- in those years. Basically, the banks and the bond market that lent New York money to pay bills decided in 1975 that the city's spending binges had at last made it a bad risk, and cut off the spigot. The city almost went bankrupt.
With the hindsight of decades, historians and others have praised Mr. Beame for having run a scandal-free administration, for struggling valiantly with an unmanageable fiscal crisis not of his making, and for allocating the city's diminished resources fairly and humanely.
But critics have insisted that he lacked vision and dynamic leadership, that despite his experience in fiscal affairs -- or perhaps because of it -- he was not up to dealing with the fiscal crisis; indeed, that he was befuddled by it at times and slow to act, that his indecisiveness prolonged and deepened the crisis, and that his legacy was a chain of state-imposed fiscal overseers.

'Ford to City: Drop Dead'
 The fiscal crisis in 1975 and 1976 was all rather mysterious to most New Yorkers, who gathered that the news was bad when they read day after day about ominous-sounding budget gaps and year-end rollovers, about a checkered history of unredeemable notes and floating debt, about fateful deferred payments and other bewildering arcana of municipal finance.
But all over town, there were clearer portents. Half-built schools stood as grim reminders that public works spending was moribund. Streets were dangerous, dirty and cratered. Libraries had limited hours. Tuition at City University was imposed for the first time. City hospitals removed 3,000 beds. Schools, police stations and firehouses were closed. To save on overtime, some firefighters were dispatched in dial-a-cabs to relieve comrades ending shifts.
While dimly understood, bankruptcy was actually a fearful specter: a city unable to pay its police officers and firefighters, to collect its garbage or maintain its hospitals, was a vision of metropolis in social collapse. Trying to cope, Mr. Beame retrenched. He eventually cut the city work force by 65,000, froze wages, reduced services, raised taxes and restructured the budget. It was not enough. He begged federal and state officials for help.
"Ford to City: Drop Dead," a legendary headline in The Daily News blared of President Gerald R. Ford's response. The federal government eventually did provide and guarantee loans for the city. And Gov. Hugh L. Carey and the State Legislature, bypassing Mr. Beame, set up innovative public agencies to monitor city finances and borrow money on its behalf.
The measures worked, but it took years for the city to get back on its feet, even with the help of an economic boom in the 1980's, and the Faustian price was humbling and severe -- a sharp erosion of the power of the mayor and other city officials to make their own spending and budget decisions.
In the pantheon of New York mayors, Mr. Beame -- a small, meticulous man with a basset hound face and a preference for doing things on the phone -- was a genuine anti-type: The city's first Jewish mayor, he lacked the fire of Fiorello H. La Guardia, the savvy of Robert F. Wagner Jr., the glamour of John V. Lindsay, the showmanship of Edward I. Koch.
He was so short that an aide sometimes slipped an attache case under him when he got up to speak. He was so colorless that he almost vanished in a three-way TV debate. He seemed to speak out of the side of his mouth -- the voice a high-pitched tootle of old "Noo Yawk" -- and his speeches were generally so bland that many people couldn't remember what he said right after he said it. He had a passion for details, political and budgetary, and a bookkeeper's penchant for jotting little notes to himself, mostly reminders to call aides and associates. He made hundreds of calls a day, at all hours. A harried executive assistant kept track one day and counted 43 calls from Mr. Beame.
One writer called him a vortex disguised as a smudge: energetic on the job, but the kind of man you never notice on the street. He grew up on the Lower East Side, went to City College and worked three decades for the city, mostly toiling over budgets, and serving two nonconsecutive terms as city comptroller.
Much of the electorate -- nudged by his campaign slogan, "He Knows the Buck" -- regarded him as a glorified bookkeeper when he ran for mayor in 1965 and lost to Mr. Lindsay, a witty, handsome, young Republican congressman who hob-nobbed with movie stars and brought a Kennedyesque excitement to City Hall.
But Mr. Beame had dignity, patience, a resilient self-confidence and that indispensable quality of all real politicians -- a memory that never forgot a favor or an insult. And eight years later, the upright burgher with the aura of accountancy ran again -- at just the right time in a town where much of the electorate was fed up with Mr. Lindsay's psychedelic stewardship -- and he won.
It was 1973, a remarkable year, with the Watergate scandal developing and the war in Vietnam winding down. In New York, poverty, unemployment and crime were surging; the city was hemorrhaging industrial jobs that had long supported the city tax base; and there was a huge exodus of middle-class taxpayers.
Lurking just around the corner, too, was the gravest fiscal crisis the city had ever faced -- a failure of trust in municipal credit, and recurrent brushes with bankruptcy that would threaten the fabric of life in New York.
It was an imbroglio that had been building for 15 years, the result of accumulated budget deficits built on a reckless disregard for the consequences of spending and borrowing. As if a judgment day would never come, Mayor Wagner to some extent, and Mayor Lindsay to a much larger extent, had ignored fiscal realities and let New Yorkers believe the stylish fiction that their government could afford all that they deemed appropriate in the richest city in the world.
As if they lived in Oz, citizens expected the city to build housing, run social and health programs, give money to artists and cultural institutions, keep City University tuition-free and provide clean safe streets, cheap transit and good schools, hospitals, parks and museums. Many had come to expect even more largesse under Mr. Lindsay, whose uncomplicated moral views had contributed to huge increases in welfare, city labor contracts and other expenses.

Borrowing to Cover Borrowing
As revenues fell, cash rolled out of the city treasury like there was a hole in the bag. Making matters worse, Mr. Lindsay, to balance budgets, had resorted to a stupefying array of gimmicks: juggling books to shift state aid from one year to another, using fictitious surpluses, "deferring" required payments, arbitrarily raising revenue estimates, borrowing against questionable receipts.
More and more, the city was borrowing just to pay back earlier borrowings.
Taking office on Jan. 1, 1974, Mr. Beame faced a staggering $1.5 billion deficit in a $10 billion budget. With his fiscal expertise, he seemed the right man to deal with the problems. But he was slow to react, critics said, and like Hoover in the Depression seemed unable to grasp that old-style belt-tightening could not subdue the economic forces threatening the city's solvency.
By the fall of 1974, with the economy stagnant and inflation rising, the long-looming crisis was in sight. Huge payments were due for bondholders, bank loans, payrolls and other city commitments, and banks warned that the municipal bond market would soon close its doors to the city, as it did six months later.
Mayor Beame, a man of extreme caution, finally began to act. He cut the city work force for the first time since the 1930's and the budget by 8.5 percent, calling it "planned shrinkage." He ended the use of budget-balancing tricks like financing day-to-day expenses with long-term capital funds. But the magnitude of the problem -- really, a growing market belief that the city was going broke and that lending it more money would be foolish -- was too great for such half measures.
In early 1975, the state's Urban Development Corporation briefly defaulted on its bonds, and the financial community shuddered with the realization that government solvency could not be taken for granted. On March 6, when the city sought $567 million in what normally would have been a routine borrowing, not a single bid was offered.
Increasingly uncertain what was happening, the mayor appealed to banks and bond brokers, to leaders of the municipal unions who controlled pension funds, to anyone with big money to invest -- and then to Governor Carey and federal officials. By spring, they were all looking the other way.Mr. Beame was especially hurt by Mr. Carey's reticence. A year earlier, in behind-the-scenes maneuvering at the State Democratic Convention in Niagara Falls, Mr. Beame had been instrumental in helping Mr. Carey gain the nomination for governor, and now he was being treated like a poor relation.
After repeated appeals, Governor Carey reluctantly had the state borrow $400 million for the city. But it was only a stopgap. Mr. Carey also set up a White House meeting with President Ford, at which Mr. Beame sought a $1 billion federal loan to keep the city afloat for 90 days. Mr. Ford refused.
By May, Mr. Carey had come to the conclusion -- already reached by bankers -- that Mr. Beame's perception of the problem was wrong. It was not one primarily of cash flow, but of recurrent deficits and a collapse of market trust in the city, and Mr. Carey feared that the city's problem could spread to the state.
In June, the Legislature and Mr. Carey bypassed Mr. Beame, who was not even consulted, and created the Municipal Assistance Corporation to sell bonds and raise money for the city. Felix G. Rohatyn, an investment banker who was close to Mr. Carey, helped devise the corporation and later served as its chairman. Because the corporation's bonds had to be paid off before all other creditors, including city workers, its debt was seen as more secure than the city's bonds.
While the corporation raised $1 billion that summer, the city's budget and spending were not under control -- the deficit had swollen to $3.3 billion -- and market resistance was strong, even to assistance-corporation bonds. In September, Mr. Carey and the Legislature created a state-dominated Emergency Financial Control Board to oversee the city's budgets, revenue estimates, spending and labor contracts.
Mr. Beame's power was being whittled away. But even so, there were brushes with bankruptcy that left him scrambling for loans and aid. Four city pension systems made crucial loans, and banks agreed to stretch out city debt payments. New York had already undergone a painful year of retrenchments, and there was a growing view in Congress that the city had to be rescued.
After President Ford rejected a federal bailout, inspiring the "Drop Dead" headline, Mr. Beame assailed him for denigrating the nation's premier city. And when the assistance corporation assembled a huge financing package in November, Mr. Ford supported $2.5 billion in federal loan guarantees that got the city through the worst of the crisis.

Aftershocks of a Crisis
 The price was steep. Taxes and transit fares rose, free tuition at City University was gone, an army of city workers was jobless, city services were cut to the bone, some agencies were turned over to the state, and the mayor had been forced to surrender autonomy over budgets, spending and labor contracts.
Over the years, as reforms restored confidence in city finances and the city coffers swelled with surpluses, the assistance corporation and the financial control board -- renamed the New York State Financial Control Board -- faded in importance, and City Hall regained most of its control over municipal finances. But Mr. Beame, friends said, never forgave Mr. Carey for what the mayor saw as a stab in the back that slashed his powers and made him the scapegoat.
Mr. Beame was even forced to dismiss his closest friend, First Deputy Mayor James A. Cavanagh, to symbolize a break with the past. But the mayor, who had worked almost around the clock for months, still presided over a city that had not defaulted. Indeed, Mr. Beame claimed a $200 million cash surplus in the final budget of his administration, and he entertained hopes of re-election.
But 13 days before the Democratic primary in 1977, with Mr. Beame locked in a tight race against Mr. Koch and Mario M. Cuomo, a Securities and Exchange Commission staff report charged that Mr. Beame, City Comptroller Harrison J. Goldin and other officials had knowingly misled investors in city securities in 1974 and 1975 by failing to disclose the city's perilous financial condition.
Mr. Beame's denials and explanations were of no avail. He lost the primary, and Mr. Koch was elected. Two years later, the S.E.C. closed its inquiry into city finances without naming or blaming anyone. It said there may have been wrongdoing, but that the public would be better served by new laws to tighten accounting rules and disclosure requirements for marketing municipal bonds.
"Listen, it's history -- but unfortunately it had its damaging effect," said Mr. Beame, who ascribed his 1977 defeat to the S.E.C. staff report and to the antipathies of Governor Carey.
Mr. Beame blamed his predecessors for the fiscal crisis and contended that his efforts had staved off default. Mr. Carey's supporters insisted it had been his intervention that rescued the city. Municipal labor leaders claimed it was their pension funds. Washington insisted it was the federal loan guarantees.
The blame and credit was argued for years, but the fiscal crisis had taken place on Mr. Beame's watch, and responsibility for it fell heavily on him. At the same time, Mr. Beame was praised for his crucial decision against deferring payment on city notes and trying instead to struggle back to solvency. And he was widely credited with allocating the city's shrinking resources fairly.
Retired from politics, Mr. Beame became chairman of UMB Bank and Trust's advisory board, and later was the senior adviser of Sterling National Bank. He also served on dozens of civic and corporate boards. He commented occasionally on city fiscal affairs, when asked, and he defended his handling of the fiscal crisis when his stewardship was criticized.
But he sidestepped public affairs for the most part, leading a quiet life built around his family, card games and lunches with a circle of close friends, and occasional trips to Israel and Hollywood, Fla., with his wife, Mary. Mrs. Beame died in 1995, and a son, Edmond, died in 1999. Besides his son, Bernard, of Pleasantville, N.Y., Mr. Beame is survived by one brother, Jack, of North Miami, Fla., five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
Abraham David Beame was born in London on March 20, 1906, to Polish-Jewish parents who had fled Warsaw, then part of Czarist Russia. His father, Philip Birnbaum, a Socialist revolutionary who barely escaped arrest, went directly to New York, while his mother, Esther Goldfarb Birnbaum, stopped in London to give birth and joined her husband three months later. In New York, the family name was changed to Beame. Abraham's mother, who had two more sons and a daughter, died in 1912; his father remarried and had two more children.
The boy, called "Spunky" for his scrappiness, grew up in a crowded cold-water flat on the Lower East Side. Childhood friends said he was an outstanding student at Public School 160. At the High School of Commerce, where he graduated at the top of his class, he had perfect scores in the state Regents bookkeeping exams and showed an extraordinary ability to absorb data and memorize facts.
He was always working. One early morning job was to go through tenements, waking people who had no alarm clocks. During his high school years, he worked evenings in a paper factory, studying during his dinner hour. He roller-skated to school and work to save subway fare. His father took him to Socialist party meetings, and he remembered Eugene V. Debs, who ran for president five times.
At 15, he met Mary Ingerman over checkers at the University Settlement House on Eldridge Street. Seven years later, after he graduated from City College with an accounting degree in 1928, they were married.
They lived in Brooklyn for the next 45 years, first in a two-family house in Crown Heights, where they raised their sons, then in a modest apartment near Prospect Park. They spent summers at rented cottages in Belle Harbor, on the Rockaways in Queens.

Late Entry Into Public Life
From 1929 to 1946, he taught accounting at Richmond Hill High School in Queens. He also formed a certified public accounting firm, Beame & Greidinger, and in 1944 and 1945 taught accounting at Rutgers University in New Jersey. In 1930, he and his wife joined the Madison Democratic Club in Crown Heights; for many years she was club treasurer and he a get-out-the-vote precinct captain.
In 1946, at the age of 40, his diligent work and accounting background led to his appointment as the city's $9,500-a-year assistant budget director. In 1952, he was promoted to budget director. Over the next decade, he negotiated all city labor contracts without a strike and kept books on city spending and borrowing; he also set up management programs that saved the city $40 million.
In 1961, at the age of 55, Mr. Beame ran for office for the first time -- as the candidate for city comptroller on a ticket headed by Mr. Wagner, who had been mayor for eight years and, though opposed by party leaders, was seeking a third term on a "beat the bosses" slate. Mr. Beame, who had never stepped out of line, broke with the Democratic organization to join Mr. Wagner, who won. Mr. Beame, whose opponents tended to underestimate him, outpolled Mr. Wagner.
When Mr. Wagner retired in 1965, Mr. Beame ran to succeed him. But he all but vanished in a campaign dominated by his telegenic, erudite opponents, Mr. Lindsay, a Republican-Liberal, and William F. Buckley Jr., a Conservative. "I'm not as glib as Mr. Lindsay, not as ready with a quick capsule answer, but what does that have to do with being mayor?" Mr. Beame complained after a TV debate. "That's what I wanted to say. But they wouldn't let me."
Mr. Beame was a Jewish mayoral candidate in a city that had more Jews than Tel Aviv, but 25 percent of the Jewish vote went to the victorious Mr. Lindsay. Analysts said many Jews had feared the attention -- and a possible surge of anti-Semitism -- that a Jewish mayor might bring if things went wrong.
Out of office for the next four years, Mr. Beame was a private investment counselor. While he prospered, he had no expensive tastes and lived plainly, almost ritually. He woke early and had orange juice, Sanka, bread and Velveeta cheese every morning. After the day's work, he was home at 7 and, first thing, laid out the next day's shirt and tie. After a light supper, it was TV, a snack of vanilla-fudge ice cream and early to bed. On weekends, the Beames saw friends and played cards. Vacations were rare; they never went abroad.
Mr. Beame hankered for only one thing, the political life. In 1969, he made a comeback, running for his old job as city comptroller on an independent line, and was elected overwhelmingly. He promptly became a focal point for opposition to Mr. Lindsay, who was re-elected on a Fusion-Independent ticket.
Mr. Lindsay's second term was a political disaster. His efforts to help minorities alienated the middle class. Welfare rolls doubled. Racial tensions grew. There were strikes by city workers. Crime rates soared. There were riots in city jails. City finances deteriorated. And as all these problems swirled, the matinee-idol mayor became a Democrat and made a hopeless run for president.
By 1973, Mr. Beame's quiet mayoral candidacy looked good to many voters. His opponents -- State Senator John J. Marchi, the Republican; Representative Mario Biaggi, the Conservative, and Assemblyman Albert H. Blumenthal, the Liberal -- labeled him a product of the Democratic machine, a tool of bosses like Meade H. Esposito, the Brooklyn leader, and a faceless vehicle for patronage.
Mr. Beame, whose son, Bernard, was his campaign manager, did not deny his clubhouse connections; he was proud of them. He made no big promises, saying his administration would be one of prudent management, not new programs. He said he would try to hold down the budget and keep transit fares at 35 cents.
It all sounded good to the working and white middle classes, union members, small homeowners, businessmen, older citizens and outer-borough residents who were disgusted with Mr. Lindsay's shopworn "Fun City" politics. Mr. Beame, 1 of 10 contenders in a free-for-all in the spring, beat Representative Herman Badillo of the Bronx in the primary and then won the four-way general election.
"I hope to be a matchmaker in the years of my administration, wedding our people to the city, encouraging them to identify with this great metropolis that is their home," Mr. Beame, the 104th mayor of New York, told the crowd gathered for his inaugural under cold, gray skies at City Hall on New Year's Day, 1974. "I want our citizens to be proud to call themselves New Yorkers."
With its chandeliers and servants, Gracie Mansion, the mayor's 18th-century official residence, seemed too grand to the Beames, who brought some of their own furniture, got rid of the modern art the Lindsays had favored, and hired a cook who knew how to make blintzes, not French sauces. Mary Beame sometimes helped in the kitchen and said she missed her friends in Brooklyn and Queens.
The Beame years were a striking contrast to his predecessor's. Mr. Lindsay was fashionably late for banquets, rallies and meetings, but Mr. Beame -- self-effacing, fundamentally shy and courteous to a fault -- arrived on time and was often the first dignitary present. His jokes rarely got more than a snicker.
He loved to shake hands. He once shook hands with a man in a gorilla suit who breached the security detail, and when David Berkowitz was arrested for 13 shootings in 1977, Mr. Beame nearly mistook him for a detective. "Ah," said Mr. Beame's press secretary, Sidney J. Frigand, "the photo op from hell -- the mayor congratulating Son of Sam on his arrest."
Aside from the fiscal crisis, Mayor Beame pressed an economic development program that created thousands of jobs, won tax abatements and credits for new and expanded businesses, capped property tax rates and restructured police work schedules to get more officers on the street.
But the four years of his mayoralty were among the most troubled in city history, and when they were over, Mr. Beame -- who had battled with federal and state officials, bankers and brokers, the news media and the unions, worrying endlessly and often working 18 hours a day -- was a tired man.
Much of his power had been taken away. He was widely blamed for mishandling the crisis, had been accused of misleading investors and even faced a threat of prosecution. He had slogged through a tough primary campaign, had been shunned by the voters and was destined to give way to his old rival, Ed Koch.
On the night of his defeat, Mr. Beame, 71, who seldom displayed any emotion beyond a thin smile or a peevish scowl, lost his composure before the cameras and a ballroom of supporters. Tears welled up, and he said in a quavering voice that he had done the best he could. The applause was loud and sustained.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Abraham D. Beame campaigning in Manhattan in 1977. (Edward Hausner/The New York Times)(pg. 1); GETTING A BOOST -- Mr. Beame was so short he sometimes stood on an attache case, or in this case in 1974, a chair, to speak. (Associated Press); CAMPAIGNING IN 1973 -- Abraham Beame chatting with a voter while walking down 42nd Street in his first successful race for mayor. (Robert Walker/The New York Times); IN WASHINGTON -- Mayor Beame waiting to appear before a Senate panel in 1977, seeking help for a citywide blackout. (George Tames/The New York Times); PROBLEMS FROM THE START -- Mayor Beame presented budget details in 1974, facing a $1.5 billion deficit in his first year in office. (Robert Walker/The New York Times)(pg. 44); THE LAST FAREWELL -- Mayor Beame acknowledging defeat in his last race, the 1977 primary, at the age of 71. His wife, Mary, offered encouragement. (Larry Morris/The New York Times)(pg. 45) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HEART DISEASE (90%); BUDGETS (89%); CITIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HISTORY (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); BONDS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); BOMBINGS (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); OFFICE PROPERTY (68%); RETAILERS (67%); ARSON (67%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (56%); MURDER (53%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MAYORS 

JIMMY CARTER (58%) MCFADDEN, ROBERT D; BEAME, ABRAHAM D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



293 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: February 4-10; 
Rise in Homelessness

BYLINE:  By Nina Bernstein

 BODY:
 The average nightly census in New York City's homeless shelters rose above 25,000 this winter, more than at any time since the 1980's, with the increase led by women and children -- already the bulk of shelter seekers. 
The commissioner for homeless services called a 10 percent surge in families since last year a "crisis" that reflected national trends. Among the causes: fallout from the economic boom through rising rents, more warrants for eviction, cutbacks in subsidized housing and a city ad campaign that helps bring 950 refugees from domestic violence nightly to a program with 450 beds. Nina Bernstein

GRAPHIC: Photo (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (91%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (88%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (88%); EVICTION (88%); FAMILY (87%); NEWS BRIEFS (86%); TRENDS (85%); PUBLIC HOUSING (84%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (82%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (51%); REFUGEES (51%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



294 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: Gotham, in Good Times and Bad 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Here's to Bad Times," by David Callahan (Op-Ed, Feb. 5): 
 Yes, there is a housing shortage in New York, and it's a shortage that extends beyond Manhattan, though you wouldn't know it from Mr. 
Callahan's article.
Rent in my Brooklyn neighborhood has also risen exponentially over the last couple of years. There are, however, many New Yorkers who pay for these increases, understanding that a good economy also has many benefits, including a low crime rate and an expanded job market. 
If it takes economic hardship for others to make Mr. Callahan feel better about his chosen profession and lower rent, then perhaps Generation X's "distortion of values" goes much further than Mr. Callahan suspects.

MICHAEL EGGEBRECHT
Brooklyn, Feb. 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CRIME RATES (68%); GENERATION X (67%); EMPLOYMENT (52%) HOUSING; SHORTAGES 

PERSON: EGGEBRECHT, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



295 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 79 words

HEADLINE: Gotham, in Good Times and Bad 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Here's to Bad Times," by David Callahan (Op-Ed, Feb. 5): 
 Cheers to David Callahan! Let the bad times roll and the recession boom! Let New York City real estate agents and owners quake in their boots! With any luck, the bad times will last longer than the dot-coms, and my husband and I will have a crack at raising our children in what remains, in good times and in bad, one of the greatest cities in the world.

WINIFRED M. MABLEY
New York, Feb. 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (87%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

PERSON: MABLEY, WINIFRED M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



296 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 142 words

HEADLINE: Gotham, in Good Times and Bad 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 David Callahan (Op-Ed, Feb. 5) neatly addresses the perilous and destabilizing underside of the so-called boom times of the last decade. The same phenomenon that Mr. 
Callahan describes has overwhelmed many good and hard-working people here in Seattle, a city synonymous with the "new economy." 
 I own a home that would be unaffordable to me if I were trying to buy it now. So many working people of modest means have been priced not only out of the realm of home buyers, but to the extremes of the rental market as well. And at the margins of our society now are countless individuals who are pushed beyond even the rental market -- they are the masses of homeless whose ranks are sure to increase over the next decade whether there's a good economy or not. Our economic order is horribly out of whack.

JOE MARTIN
Seattle, Feb. 5, 2001

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Brian O'Connell) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NEW ECONOMY (70%) HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: MARTIN, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) SEATTLE (WASH)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



297 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: FIVE QUESTIONS/for CHARLES P. SCHROEDER; 
Of Mad Cows and Anxious Ranchers

BYLINE:  By GREG WINTER 

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH they have had a record year, cattle ranchers in the United States now face growing anxiety over mad cow disease and a wave of consolidation in the meat industry, both of which could drive down beef prices. 
 But last week, they triumphed when Ann M. Veneman, the new agriculture secretary, named Dale Moore, a lobbyist for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association, as her chief of staff. Charles P. Schroeder, the association's chief executive, said the cattle industry was investing heavily in food safety and looking forward to working with its former advocate. Following are excerpts from a telephone interview with Mr. Schroeder last week. GREG WINTER

Q. In a report last summer, the inspector general of the Agriculture Department criticized it for reducing its oversight of the meat industry. Do you think government supervision of food safety is adequate?

A. We have the safest food supply in meat and other food products, so we can't be doing too badly. Food safety is a threshold issue for consumers, and we recognize that if we aren't delivering a safe product, we're out of business, regardless of who the regulators are. So I wouldn't say that we're underregulated; we just feel that food safety needs to be based on good science and not convenient politics.

Q. Now that Dale Moore has joined the Agriculture Department, is there anything you hope to accomplish?

A. We would expect Dale to place continued emphasis on international trade relations, which are important not only to the beef industry but to all of agriculture. Exports are key to us. Obviously, the situation with the European Union is very critical to the beef industry. They've had a ban on U.S. beef for some time, and we would love to see that resolved. This is an area where Dale has had firsthand experience.

Q. Some members of your organization have voiced opposition to Tyson Foods' proposal to buy IBP, which would create the single biggest producer of beef, pork and chicken. What is your position on consolidation in the meat industry?

A. There has been concern by beef producers that Tyson would try to vertically integrate; that is, go upstream and try to own the cattle and the sources of production. In the beef industry, frankly, we don't lend ourselves to vertical integration, and we have resisted it both culturally and at the business level. We have spoken with Tyson executives on that issue, and they have assured us that they intend to focus their capital downstream to the consumer through product development and marketing.
We do not have a position opposing the merger, but it's important to know that we just reported the seventh straight quarter of increasing beef demand, after a 20-year decline. In 2000, we had another record year for exports, and Americans spent over $52 billion for beef, which is an all-time record. As we look at the potential merger between Tyson, we want to make sure that we can continue on that course to increasing demand.

Q. There is increasing anxiety about how the beef industry intends to keep bovine spongiform encephalopathy, also known as B.S.E. or mad cow disease, out of the food supply in the United States. What are you doing?

A. At this point we feel that we are doing everything necessary. When it was first discovered in the U.K. in the late 1980's, we started right then working with the F.D.A. and the U.S.D.A. to put barriers in place, including stopping the import of all beef products from the U.K. and, later, other countries where B.S.E. is indicated. We have had no confirmed cases of B.S.E. in this country.

Q. If mad cow disease spread to the United States, what would you do to limit it?

A. We have a surveillance system in place where we could identify it very quickly. We would isolate that animal, and we have worked through various scenarios with F.D.A. and U.S.D.A. so that we could confine exposure and get that animal out of the system. We also put in place a ban on feeding any ruminant-based byproduct to cattle, so that we could break the chain of passing the disease from one animal to another.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEEF CATTLE FARMING (93%); FOOD SAFETY (91%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (91%); BEEF (91%); PRODUCT SAFETY (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (90%); MEATS (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (90%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); LOBBYING (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); FOOD PRICES (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (73%); PORK (73%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); EUROPEAN UNION (65%) MEAT; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; MAD COW DISEASE (BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: NATIONAL CATTLEMEN'S BEEF ASSOCIATION (72%); TYSON FOODS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CATTLEMEN'S BEEF ASSN; TYSON FOODS INC; IBP INC 

TICKER: TSN (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813910 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (72%); SIC8621 PROFESSIONAL MEMBERSHIP ORGANIZATIONS (72%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (53%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (53%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (53%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (53%)

PERSON: WINTER, GREG; SCHROEDER, CHARLES P 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



298 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT; 
Technology Wreckage: Yes, More To Come

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
IT was February 2000, and tulips were blooming in Tech Land.
 The Morgan Stanley Internet index stood at 105.20. A share of Amazon.com cost a bit more than $76, Cisco Systems traded at around $65.50 and eToys closed just south of $16. 
 A year later, the tulips, as it were, are dead or dying. Morgan Stanley's Internet index is down nearly 75 percent. Two movie tickets cost more than a share of Amazon. Cisco, the Starship Enterprise, is hurting. And by the end of next month, eToys is likely to be out of business. 
Roger McNamee, a general partner at Integral Capital Partners, a firm that makes venture-capital and public investments in technology companies, took time last week to assess the damage and to talk about the future. Following are excerpts from the conversation.

Q. A lot of people predicted that Internet mania would end. But what started it?

A. My general sense of things is that the enthusiasm for the Internet caused a hormonal reaction in the investment community that ultimately had some very unfortunate side effects.
People misinterpreted some early success stories at Amazon, Yahoo, eBay and America Online to think that it wasn't that hard to get customers. An awful lot of money was lost on that incorrect conclusion. 
In addition, people crafted a world view around the concept of "Internet time," which was all about urgency, and built business models in the investment world that resulted in a relaxation of standards with respect to due diligence, management standards, recruiting and investment judgment.

Q. So is what we have seen over the past year the end of the beginning, or the beginning of the end of Internet collapse?

A. What we are doing is moving from a period of manic innovation into a period of consolidation and standardization.
Inevitably, there will be another big megawave in technology. But we just finished the first wave of the Internet economy, during which we built out the physical infrastructure and created the key elements of the software platform. 
As an operating system, the Internet is stabilizing. As we get rid of the dross over the next two to three years, the software platform will be stabilized.

Q. So a lot more companies are going to fail?

A. There is little hope for the vast majority of the dot-com companies that were funded over the last four to five years.
More than 200 dot-coms have already gone sneakers-up. My guess is that it will be a small multiple of that this year. An awful lot of what is getting unwound is not visible. 
Everybody has the same, very simple problem: the 1999 model was spend to grow. As long as you grew rapidly, it didn't matter what your expenses were. 
But in 2001, cash is king. There are only two states today -- companies that have enough cash to break even, and those who don't. The folks who have tons of capital have an opportunity to maintain the 1999 model. But you can count those companies on the fingers of one hand.

Q. Which companies form a core group of Internet survivors?

A. You are going to be left with America Online and eBay, new business models with huge staying power. Cnet looks like a long-term winner. Amazon.com looks like a survivor, but I don't know if it has staying power as a stock. That company has built a great, not a good, business. But it is proving to be much harder for them to be the Wal-Mart of the Internet than they thought.
Yahoo has built a great business franchise, but their business model is still evolving. I think Inktomi has a very interesting business model. BEA Systems is a very important company.

Q. Cisco Systems caused a good bit of upset last week because it suggested that conditions could remain weak for a good while longer. Few expected that sort of guidance. What is going on?

A. There is a very severe inventory correction going on throughout the technology industry. As long as revenues were growing, nobody cared about rising inventories. Now everything has to get resized and reset.
It will probably take two to three quarters to work out the inventory problem, which says that sometime by the end of September the inventory correction will be over. And stock prices typically bottom six months before that correction has finished.

Q. Have you been buying some stocks recently?

A. Peregrine Systems, a software company, Ericsson and America Online are the three biggest things we have done recently. We have also bought some Juniper Networks, added to our position in Flextronics International and bought some stock in storage companies like Western Digital Corporation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: McNamee 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (78%); BONDS (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (69%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (66%) STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (93%); MORGAN STANLEY (84%); AMAZON.COM INC (58%); AOL INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTEGRAL CAPITAL PARTNERS 

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (93%); MS (NYSE) (84%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (58%); AOL (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (55%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N; MCNAMEE, ROGER 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



299 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3697 words

HEADLINE: Following the Money, but Alsothe Mind 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
IN the histories of economics still to be written, the spring of 1994 will almost certainly be flagged as momentous. That is when an ophthalmologist's son from Main Line Philadelphia -- David Laibson -- received his Ph.D. in economics, qualifying with a thesis about willpower and money that drew as much on psychology and quirky behavior as on standard economics. Harvard quickly hired him, becoming the first university to deliberately recruit an economics professor trained as a behavioral economist.
 Behavioral economics had finally arrived: a discipline that for a half-century had built its theories on the rigid assumption that people acted with rational, unemotional self-interest had formally recognized that human beings had another, feisty, side to them. 
 Three years later, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology followed Harvard's lead, hiring Sendhil Mullainathan just after he earned his Ph.D. He, too, was steeped in both psychology and economics, as well as memories of an impoverished early childhood in rural India. 
Mr. Laibson, now 34, and Mr. Mullainathan, 27, are rising stars in a generation of economists that are gradually integrating behavioral economics into mainstream theory. Many are still graduate students. They are bunched at prestigious training centers -- Harvard, M.I.T., Stanford, the University of Chicago, Princeton, Yale, the University of California at Berkeley. And their appearance on the scene is timely.
Behavioral economists help to explain how booms persist while busts, like the one that the United States may now be entering, are difficult to reverse. Their research sheds light on why identity -- the traits people assign to themselves and to others -- plays a huge and often damaging role in the economy. If the behaviorists are correct, shares of companies on the New York Stock Exchange are overvalued and the Dow Jones industrial average has further to fall. And if the behaviorists prevail, the mainstream view of a rational, self-regulating economy may well be amended and policies adopted to control irrational, sometimes destructive behavior. Twenty-five years of deregulation might lose its appeal.
"We are engaged in a conversation in economics where people who are intrigued by the importance of psychological phenomenon are making their case to the profession at large," Mr. Laibson said. "I am optimistic that we will be successful, but I cannot presume to know the outcome. The mainstream is saying the behavior we describe may be real, but is minor."
The behaviorists' numbers are still small -- fewer than 20 percent of the graduate students in economics. But that is up from almost none when Mr. Laibson entered M.I.T.'s graduate program in 1990 and Mr. Mullainathan began his graduate studies at Harvard in 1993.
"If you were to graph the number of behavioral economists on the job market, it was zero, and then there was Laibson and me," Mr. Mullainathan said. "The market saw that we did well, and now there is a ton of graduate students on the market. Well, maybe not a ton. But it looked to me like I was taking a big risk, and afterward, it turned out that I was at the front end of a fad."
Their reputations have been on the rise ever since. Mr. Laibson built his mostly on the strength of an "anomaly" that he had described about people and money. When people expect money but have not yet received it, they are capable of planning, quite rationally, how much of it to spend immediately and how much to save. That squares with mainstream theory, which argues that for a modest incentive, people are willing to save and put off spending. But when the money actually arrives, willpower breaks down and -- barring locked-in paycheck deductions -- the money is often spent right away. The phenomenon is called "hyperbolic discounting," an economist's way of saying that a bird in hand is worth not two in the bush, but more like six or seven.
Overspending and undersaving are indeed American characteristics that economists struggle to explain. The mainstream argues that people save as much as they can, voluntarily, and that if taxes are reduced, as the Bush administration proposes, people will save a substantial portion of the windfall. Corporate America could then tap those savings to finance investment in, say, computers, making the economy grow.
Behavioral economists say this reasoning is flawed. They contend that despite their best intentions, most people spend almost all of any income that comes their way. Instead of rationally balancing spending and saving over a lifetime, people are indebted from youth to old age, the behaviorists find.
The young behavioral economists are not rebels. Neither are their mentors, the two dozen or so older economists who converted to behavioral economics after they had become university professors. The first was Richard H. Thaler, now 55, the University of Chicago economist who teamed up with two psychologists in the 1970's; out of their collaboration came the early findings of behavioral economics. 
Rather than reject mainstream theory, behaviorists embrace its emphasis on rational, self-interested behavior. But they insist on amendments. The economy, they argue, also responds to skewed reasoning, self-indulgence, self-destructive behavior and a host of other human frailties and strengths. Lately, a few behavioralists have ventured beyond psychology, wading into sociology and anthropology to help explain the dynamics of the economy.
"Our vision is that all economics will be seen as behavioral economics," write three of the mentors -- George Lowenstein at Carnegie Mellon Institute, Colin F. Camerer at the California Institute of Technology, and Matthew Rabin at Berkeley -- in the introduction to a collection of essays on behavioral economics to be published this year. In their vision, "the strict rationality assumptions that many economists still embrace may someday be seen as a quaint, unrealistic, special case."

First, They Do the Math
The human mind, the behaviorists say, lacks the circuitry at this stage of evolution to produce a well-functioning market system where people interact freely in pursuit of their preferences. Adam Smith knew this. So did David Ricardo, Karl Marx, Alfred Marshall and John Maynard Keynes. In fact, almost all the great economists incorporated complex psychology into their thinking.
But in the mid-20th century, economics veered. Economists increasingly thought of themselves as practicing a science, which, like physics, was one that could be modeled and explained through mathematical equations. Those equations -- not words -- soon became the language of economics. Rational, self-interested behavior -- a world in which people responded to changes in prices and wages but not to emotion or one another's actions -- most easily fit into these new equations.
Even now, words have made only a modest comeback. Mostly, the math is becoming more complicated, to accommodate the rebirth of psychology in economics. Mr. Laibson, who was an economics major as a Harvard undergrad, and Mr. Mullainathan, a computer science major at Cornell, are skilled in the techniques of complex equations. They fill their research papers with algebraic calculations. That is partly good strategy, because behavioral economists want to be taken seriously by their mainstream colleagues. And math is the route to acceptance.
"I have encouraged the young guys to play by the rules, because otherwise they will be ignored," Mr. Thaler said.
The strategy is working. Even diehard rationalists like Robert E. Lucas, a Nobel laureate at the University of Chicago, allow that there are enough puzzles in savings behavior to consider Mr. Laibson's hyperbolic-discounting thesis. But, Mr. Lucas is quick to add, mainstream economic theory answers most questions well enough. "For the price of gasoline, the model we have is sufficient," he said. "If the price goes up, people rationally use less. The psychological processes involved when people alter their behavior are not something we have to think about."
Kevin Murphy, another University of Chicago economist, said that in time, behavioral economics might provide better explanations than mainstream theory does for some phenomena. But right now, he said, what the behaviorists see as irrational, the mainstreamers can often interpret as rational choice. Eating greasy, high-fat hamburgers too often can cost people their health. "But if people accustom their taste so that they enjoy hamburgers," Mr. Murphy said, "then trading health for taste is a rational preference."
Behavioral economics may also change the prevailing wisdom about deregulation, a process that began under President Jimmy Carter in the late 1970's, when the airlines were freed and interest rate ceilings were lifted. Deregulation enjoys strong support from mainstream economists, who believe that a free-market system works best when left in the public's rational hands. California's experience with electric power, however, challenges the efficacy of deregulation. So does gambling, which can be addictive, the behavioral economists say -- in contrast to mainstream thinking, which holds that people who gamble rationally choose what they prefer to do.
So far, the behavioral economists balk at government rules that try to offset human shortcomings in the marketplace. But the question intrigues them.
"We don't yet understand the phenomena well enough to make policy recommendations," Mr. Laibson said. For now, he would confine solutions to the private sector. For example, he might encourage automatic payroll deductions to build up 401(k) savings -- unless an employee went to the trouble to opt out. Most people are not so activist by nature, the behavioral economists have found.
"It is certainly true," Mr. Laibson said, "that by raising these issues, we are opening the door to a debate about government's role in the markets."

Rose-Colored Hindsight
Nothing gets more support from the behaviorists than the view that the stock market responds not to corporate reality, but to the moods of investors -- their herd behavior, their overestimation of their investing skills, their reluctance to sell a falling stock and acknowledge a loss, and their gambler's view that stock-market gains are like "house money": it can be left on the table for more action.
That is just one reason that behavioral economists -- particularly Robert J. Shiller of Yale -- are convinced that stock trading is irrational. "People get overconfident," Mr. Shiller said. "Their egos become involved, and they are fooled by hindsight bias." Using hindsight, he explained, "they think it must have been obvious to people in the 1920's that a stock market crash was coming."
If what was happening then were happening now, investors would see the writing on the wall. "Since they don't see a crash coming now, ergo, there is no crash coming," he said.
Above all, behaviorists contend, standard theory fails to recognize that people take shortcuts in thinking, in effect bypassing rational analysis. People are prone, for example, to "representative" thinking and to "categorization," both often leading to false conclusions.
Consider categorization. Many people see a black woman walking with young children and think she is a single mother who is or has been on welfare. That shortcut in thinking helps to explain why black people constantly confront irrational barriers to jobs or good pay.
The effects of such lazy thinking can multiply, at times harmfully. "When people do differentiate between middle-class blacks and poor blacks, then the poor blacks get pushed further down in the eyes of people who might employ them," Mr. Mullainathan said. "Mainstream economics says that a strong economy makes all boats rise. But categorization gives a different slant."
In representation, the present becomes representative of the future. The economy booms for several years, and people conclude that the good times will continue indefinitely. When a recession arrives unexpectedly, their reckless spending and borrowing can haunt them. The recession then becomes the yardstick for viewing the future, and excessive caution can prolong the hard times.
"The big question is: How sophisticated are people as they go through the world, and what do they choose to see and not to see?" Mr. Laibson said.
Not all the behavior in the new economics is ornery. Alongside self-interest, there are places in the human psyche for altruism, loyalty, fairness and a willingness to reciprocate. Various experiments have demonstrated how common these qualities are. They help to explain the environmental movement and volunteer work, as well as the dedication of job holders to their daily tasks in return for a wage above what the market requires.
"We did some work on firms that were insulated from takeovers, and what effect that had on real behavior," Mr. Mullainathan said. Studying such companies, he found that their managers, freed from the fear of takeover, were less concerned about cost-cutting and, as a result, paid higher wages to their workers.
The rationalists argue that workers can make life difficult, so managers with a little flexibility pay them off to reduce their own stress. "But when I describe the research in my class," Mr. Mullainathan said, "several people say, 'Oh, could it be that the managers like their workers and want to be fair.' " 
Such findings have drawn a few radical economists into behavioral economics, including Samuel Bowles and Herbert Gintis, at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. As graduate students at Harvard in the late 1960's, they turned to Marxism and the protest movement against the Vietnam War, not so much because of political ideology, they now argue, but because the dominant economics took too narrow a view of human motivation.
"We were trained in models of the economy that we did not believe," said Mr. Bowles, who has been an outspoken critic of mainstream theory. "Behavioral economics is not challenging the mainstream concept that selfishness is an important motive; what we are challenging is that it is the only motive."
Mr. Gintis and Mr. Bowles say they are now comfortable with several findings of the behaviorists. Their own work on fairness depends on the idea that sharing and reciprocity are important impulses in the human psyche. On taxes, for example, people willingly pay their fair share, Mr. Gintis says, until they perceive that some businesses or individuals do not and that the Internal Revenue Service fails to prosecute them. "Then they reciprocate by cheating, too," he said.
The setting of wages also reflects the complexities of human psychology, the behavioral economists argue. Wages should fall when unemployment is high and idle workers are eager to land jobs. But employers do not cut wages. They might not raise them by enough to keep up with inflation, but they almost never reduce them. They refrain out of a sense of fairness or loyalty or friendship, particularly in small offices, or because of a realization that if wages were cut, workers would reciprocate by dragging their feet on the job. In fact, wages are often kept above what the market requires, to raise morale and to motivate workers. The unemployed may offer to work for less, but they are not hired.
This managerial reasoning is known as the "efficiency wage," a concept described more than 25 years ago by George A. Akerlof when behavioral economics was hardly a speck. In 1966, while Mr. Gintis and Mr. Bowles were beginning their graduate studies in economics at Harvard, Mr. Akerlof was finishing his Ph.D. across town at M.I.T. While they were marching toward Marxism, he was moving toward behavioral economics, before it had a name or critical mass.
"Sometimes I think that if I had known what Akerlof was doing, I would have gone in that direction too," Mr. Gintis said.

Resurrected in the 70's
From Mr. Akerlof's pen, occasionally in collaboration with the economist Joseph Stiglitz, came early descriptions of market imperfections. The most famous was described by Mr. Akerlof in a 1970 paper, "The Market for 'Lemons.' " The lemons were used cars, and the point was that car salesmen knew more about the quality of the cars they were selling than did the buyers, and could thus overcharge. In the mainstream vision of the marketplace, buyers and sellers are both fully informed and the agreed-upon price is the right one.
That early work was a first step toward, as Mr. Akerlof puts it, a resurrection of the behavioral phenomena that still survived in Mr. Keynes's day, in the 30's and 40's.
By 1985, Mr. Akerlof had met the two psychologists whose research and experiments, in collaboration with various economists, produced many early findings of behavioral economics. One of them, Amos Tversky, died in 1996; the other, Daniel Kahneman, now at Princeton, taught a graduate seminar on psychology and economics with Mr. Akerlof at Berkeley.
"George did not get credit for that course," Dr. Kahneman recalled. "The idea of teaching with a psychologist was considered so flaky that he was told to do it on his own."
Now, at 60, Mr. Akerlof is pushing behavioral economics into sociology and anthropology. From studies of black children in inner-city schools, he and Rachel E. Kranton of the University of Maryland have described a group identity that settles on the children, giving them a sense of self that is linked to what they perceive as their social category. Usually that categorization confines them, so they have to decide how to behave. The rebelliousness that often results has filled the jails with black young people, Mr. Akerlof said.
By altering identity -- and therefore expectations -- a few "miracle schools" in poor neighborhoods have greatly improved student performance, Mr. Akerlof said, citing Central Park East Secondary School in Harlem as an example. Mainstream economics suggests that training and education should be enough to allow anyone to enter the world of good jobs and should, if available, trump group identity. Mr. Akerlof's model disagrees.
"When we gave this paper at Berkeley, someone said that we had developed a terminology that bridged economics and sociology," Mr. Akerlof said. "The sociologists already knew all this and now we are putting it in a framework that economists can understand."
He was drawn to behavioral economics, he said, because "the disparity between blacks and whites" is the most important issue in America, yet one that mainstream economics fails to address effectively.
During his undergraduate years at Yale, he participated in civil rights protests in the South. A year spent in India, as a young economist, introduced him to the sociology of castes, a version of discrimination. "I used what I saw to think about things in very different ways," he said.
That same need to think about issues that mainstream theory does not explain also helped to draw Mr. Laibson and Mr. Mullainathan into behavioral economics.
After growing up near Haverford, in the suburbs of Philadelphia, where his father was a noted ophthalmologist, Mr. Laibson went to Harvard with only a vague understanding of economics. It bothered him in those early economics courses to have to assume perfect rationality. "I wondered what was missing," he said.
What opened his eyes was that first year in graduate school, when M.I.T. offered a course in behavioral economics taught by Peter Diamond, an economist, and Drazen Prelec, a psychologist. "I had thought that economics was about saving the world," Mr. Laibson said, "but I see now that it is about asking and answering fascinating questions."
Mr. Mullainathan is constantly aware of the very different life he would have lived had his father not become an engineer, found work in Los Angeles and then brought his wife and young son from India in 1980. Even now, visiting relatives in India, the son meets boyhood playmates who are sharecroppers earning $150 a year. And when his father was briefly out of work in California, the son worried that his family would slip back into poverty.
He entered Cornell intending to be a computer engineer, but he took courses taught by two behavioral economists -- Robert Frank, a labor expert, and Mr. Thaler, the pioneer in mixing psychology and economics. Through them, he saw economics connecting with his own experience. "I really decided at that point that I wanted to do economics and I wanted to bridge this divide between the real world and the theoretical world," Mr. Mullainathan said.

Moving to the Next Level
The research goes on. Mr. Laibson is trying to understand "cueing" as a phenomenon in economics. Cueing helps to explain why advertising works; it refers to the stimuli that arouse latent desires or draw a cured addict back to his addiction.
Hotel room minibars provide considerable stimuli when small liquor bottles are displayed on the refrigerator door, behind a wire mesh. "Think about what it must be like for the recovering alcoholic to sit in that hotel room and stare at that alcohol for three hours before he goes to bed," Mr. Laibson said, suggesting that regulation might be in order. "That alcohol is a very powerful cue," he said, "and it may be inappropriate for a recovering alcoholic to endure that experience."
While Mr. Laibson describes specific phenomena, Mr. Mullainathan searches for patterns in human behavior -- for example, how investors make decisions. From his research, he concludes that people put stocks into categories just as they put people into categories, arbitrarily classifying a General Electric as a technology stock and a Cisco Systems as a glamour stock. They trade them accordingly, until something happens, then reclassify them into new categories, he says. 
"When I see a common thread, that gets me going," Mr. Mullainathan said. From this sort of broad understanding may someday come more effective monetary policy.
"I would love to see how Alan Greenspan would behave 80 years from now, when economics is much more behavioral," Mr. Mullainathan said. "We cannot know, of course. But one thing we do know: 80 years from now he would behave differently than he is behaving today, and that is kind of cool."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 25, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 11 about the rising influence of behavioral economists misspelled the surname of one and misstated the name of the university where he works. He is George Loewenstein, not Lowenstein, and he is at Carnegie Mellon University, not the Carnegie Mellon Institute.

GRAPHIC: Photos: More than 25 years ago, before behavioral economics had a name or critical mass, George A. Akerlof was doing some pioneering work in the field. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times); Sendhil Mullainathan, 27, at M.I.T., and David Laibson, 34, at Harvard, are rising stars in a generation of economists that are gradually integrating behavioral psychology into mainstream economic theory. (Rick Friedman for The New York Times)(pg. 11); (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (68%); STOCK INDEXES (68%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (67%); DEREGULATION (66%); STOCK EXCHANGES (63%) ECONOMICS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PSYCHOLOGY AND PSYCHOLOGISTS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; MULLAINATHAN, SENDHIL; LAIBSON, DAVID; AKERLOF, GEORGE A 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



300 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: Miss Lillian's Boy 

BYLINE:  By Roy Reed; Roy Reed covered the South for The New York Times during the 1960's and 70's. He is the author of "Faubus: The Life and Times of an American Prodigal."

 BODY:
 AN HOUR BEFORE DAYLIGHT
Memories of a Rural Boyhood.
By Jimmy Carter.
Illustrated. 284 pp. New York:
Simon & Schuster. $26.
 Billy Carter became a media favorite for his outspoken opinions while his brother, Jimmy, was running for president in 1976. When one reporter suggested that Billy was a little strange, Billy replied: "Look: my Mama was a 70-year-old Peace Corps volunteer in India, one of my sisters goes all over the world as a holy-roller preacher, my oldest sister spends half her time on a Harley-Davidson motorcycle, and my brother thinks he's going to be president of the United States. Which one of our family do you think is normal?"
The former president's family was famous for its eccentricities, and this memoir does not shrink from them. It even adds several that the public has never heard of. Mainly, though, "An Hour Before Daylight" details a boyhood that was utterly normal for its time and place. And therein lies its value.
For example, it may shock many people to realize that millions of Americans in the 1920's and 30's did not have toilets. I'm not talking about indoor toilets; they didn't even have outdoor privies. These were young Jimmy's neighbors and people like them living on farms and patches of raw countryside across the United States. This was a third-world country in those days.
This is the 13th book of nonfiction or poetry that Carter has written since leaving the White House in 1981. The nation should be grateful that he took up writing. He has the gift of language, and he has plenty to say. The new book is more than a memoir; it is also a carefully researched document of a time and place that were shortly to become tumultuous. 
It should be of interest to historians that the three best presidents of our time on matters of race were Lyndon B. Johnson, Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton -- three white Southerners. Carter's boyhood story goes a long way toward explaining the seeming paradox of a white, rural Southerner's liberalism on race. Here was a kid growing up among segregationist true believers in a place where any other attitude was punishable by ostracism or worse. His father, Earl Carter, a prosperous landowner and employer of numerous black farm workers, seems to have treated his black employees decently. But he would not let them approach the front door of his house, and they would not have dared to do so. He was a segregationist, as were most white Southerners of that time. How, then, did his son turn out differently?
Two threads running through the memoir shed light on that. First, the boy literally grew up with black people. His best friends on the farm were black children. He was in and out of their houses. He ate meals with them and their parents almost every day. He grew up speaking two dialects, white and black, and sometimes was called on to translate a troublesome piece of black speech for white adults.
He remembers fondly the food he ate in Rachel Clark's kitchen across the dirt road from his house. "I am sure," he writes, "that there are few living Georgians who, in their lifetimes, have eaten more possum meat than I have." He describes the sadness of the inevitable turning point when, as a young teenager, he was forced by custom to pull back from his black friends. At the segregated white high school in Plains, he had begun to make new friends and had become interested in dating girls. Back on the farm, his best friends were still two black boys.
"One day about this time, A.D., Edmund and I approached the gate leading from our barn to the pasture. To my surprise, they opened it and stepped back to let me go through first. I was immediately suspicious that they were playing some trick on me, but I passed through without stumbling over a tripwire or having them slam the gate in my face.
"It was a small act, but a deeply symbolic one. After that, they often treated me with some deference. I guess that their parents had done or said something that caused this change in my black friends' attitude. The constant struggle for leadership among our small group was resolved, but a precious sense of equality had gone out of our personal relationship, and things were never again the same between them and me."
Carter's personal concern for black people was reinforced from an unexpected direction. His mother did not agree with his father on race. Miss Lillian, as she became known to the world, was a nurse. She was the only medical practitioner that their poor neighbors, white and black, were likely to see. Like her son, she spent a lot of time in the homes of black people. She saw the problems that came from racism and worried about them. 
A black friend was welcome to use the front door at Miss Lillian's house, no matter what Mr. Earl might think. She was an early fan of Jackie Robinson when he integrated major league baseball. She managed the local campaign of Lyndon Johnson, a known integrationist, in 1964. His local opponents soaped her windows and wrote graffiti on her car. Young Jimmy admired his mother's courage and chose to follow her teaching rather than his father's.
In other matters, he adored his father. His boyhood goal was to become a farmer like him. Jimmy was the oldest child and was privileged to go with his father around the farm every day. He learned to plow with a mule and operate the farm machinery. He learned farm economics. He clearly was able to run the farm by his late teens and probably would have taken his turn at that if he had not gone to the Naval Academy. 
This book gives a far different picture of the Carters of Plains from the standard one painted by the news media during the Carter presidency. True, the parents were staunch Baptists. Practically everybody in Plains was a faithful churchgoer. One of the startling facts in the book is that no one in the town had ever been divorced by the time Jimmy went away to college. But Earl and Lillian Carter were not starched puritans. Earl made his own wine. They relied on St. Paul's advice to Timothy to "use a little wine for thy stomach's sake and thine often infirmities." They drank liquor, went to parties , danced and traveled all over the country to amuse themselves. Lillian played poker. Their little town was no more virtuous than any other place. As a small boy, Jimmy writes, "I learned which men went to the whorehouses in Albany, whether they favored black or white prostitutes, and how much these adventures cost."
Perhaps the overriding value of this book is its vivid and well-researched portrait of rural Southern life during the hard times of the 1920's and the 30's. It is entertaining to read how young Jimmy enjoyed walking barefoot in mud and manure; how his father called him Hot unless he was angry, then called him Jimmy; and how he learned to fight at school. But on a more somber level, the reader is forced to confront one of the darkest periods in the nation's history not just with cold statistics -- Carter includes enough of those -- but as personal struggle and tragedy.
One of the boldest and most bitterly opposed programs of the New Deal was one to reduce agricultural oversupply by paying farmers to kill animals and plow under crops. Plowing up a crop seemed unnatural and, to some, wrong before God. An old acquaintance of Carter's remembered that even his mule resisted plowing up cotton. A good mule was trained never to step on the row of growing plants.
"I couldn't keep my mule up on the row, where she had never been before without being whipped," he says. "I had to let her walk near the middle, and hold the plow way over sidewise to reach the cotton stalks. It was hard work, and I almost cried."
It is possible that any number of people who grew up on a farm during that time could have written a book like this. But two things make this one special. First, it has the feel of being dead honest, a rarity among political people who after all are trained in the quite necessary skill of dissembling. Second, the boy whose story it tells grew up to be not just president of the United States but one of the great Americans of our time. 
It has come to be expected that former presidents will write their memoirs. I would like to see them spend less time on their public lives and more on their childhoods. Knowing what made a kid laugh and what made him afraid tells us more about his person than any of the weighty details of his adulthood.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jimmy Carter and his sister Gloria. (Carter Family Collection/from "An Hour Before Daylight") 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FARM LABOR (78%); LIBERALISM (73%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (73%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); LITERATURE (68%); POETRY (64%); HISTORY (62%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (92%); BILL CLINTON (58%) REED, ROY; CARTER, JIMMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (92%)

TITLE: HOUR BEFORE DAYLIGHT, AN (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



301 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 7381 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Internalized 

BYLINE:  By James Traub; James Traub is a contributing writer for The New York Times Magazine.

 BODY:
The old testament furnishes any number of possible metaphors for the reign, now nearing its end, of New York's mayor, Rudolph W. Giuliani. The Rev. Calvin Butts, pastor of Harlem's Abyssinian Baptist Church, suggests the following: "There was a fellow named Josiah that became king. And they were searching through some rubble, and they found the books of the law that had been lost. And Josiah said, 'Read them to me.' And then he said, 'That's what we're supposed to be doing?' And he went through the land. He pulled down all the temples of the foreign gods, and he killed off the priests who would not submit to the one god. It was a brutal, ugly thing, but he brought order, peace, the law back to the land. He went down in the annals of Second Kings as one of the great kings." 
 This flight of rhetoric perhaps requires a footnote or two. Reverend Butts is the kind of silver-tongued clergyman who is prone to be carried away by his own oratory. He has all sorts of reservations about Mayor Giuliani and does not, when speaking in prose, call him a great urban king. But Reverend Butts is one of the city's leading black figures and in most regards a member of that amorphous entity known as the liberal elite, and so his belief that the Republican mayor has brought "order, peace, the law" to New York speaks eloquently about the evolution of opinion in liberal circles. 
 Moreover, since Josiah is a restorer of truth, Butts is saying that the city lost its way under previous mayors, who would include Giuliani's predecessor, David N. Dinkins, the city's first black mayor. And finally, the passage about demolition and murder implies that Butts has at least partly accepted Giuliani's own claim that the city was so enmeshed in false doctrine that it needed a scourge. "I really think," Butts told me in civilian mode, "that without Giuliani, we would have been overrun."
We'll never know, of course, whether that's actually so, and in truth both the crime rate and the crack epidemic, which did so much to fuel it, had already begun to subside under Mayor Dinkins. But that Butts believes it, and that he would say it, speak eloquently of the way the psychic universe of the city has changed in the Giuliani Era. There are wishes that can be uttered out loud -- the wish for order or peace or law -- that would have once been taken as a yearning for a sanitized, suburbanized New York. There are words like "healing" that no longer have the magical conjuring power they once did. New Yorkers don't talk about crime the way they used to, or about welfare or quality of life issues or perhaps even the budget. New Yorkers don't give credit for good intentions the way they used to: New Yorkers now expect a mayor to do something about problems, not pontificate about them. This is Giuliani's New York. And as the mayor's second and final term draws to a close (term limits preclude a threepeat), the city is about to be inherited by someone of a very different temperament. The four Democrats who have announced plans to run for mayor are all longtime officeholders and all, to varying degrees, priests of the old religion upon which Giuliani has wreaked devastation. (The one Republican given a shot at winning is Michael Bloomberg, the information-technology magnate, whose candidacy is still in the trial-balloon phase.) They will have to demonstrate that they understand how deeply the world has changed since 1993, though without alienating that very large segment of the Democratic Party that imagines cloven hooves beneath the mayor's shiny black wingtips.
It could be argued that New Yorkers have made their peace with the bourgeois values the mayor is always preaching about: "If you don't emphasize respect for other people, the city falls apart"; "My father had the wisdom to see that all work is meaningful"; etc. A few years ago, the culture critic John Leonard wrote that Giuliani had put the city through "obedience training." It's a terrible thought; is it true? Have New Yorkers sacrificed some essential part of themselves -- their turbulent, nonconforming, wisenheimer souls? Certainly if the mayor had half a chance, he would turn New York into a giant parochial school. He tried, notoriously, to defund the Brooklyn Museum of Art as punishment for showing an exhibition he deemed offensive. In his own realm, he has locked the gates to City Hall Park, establishing a security system inside a big white tent that appears to be modeled on the White House. He banned news conferences on the steps of City Hall, though that was overturned by a judge -- as was the attempt to bring the Brooklyn Museum to heel. Actually, none of this hyperbolically good behavior feels very permanent. You have the feeling that the kids are going to start throwing erasers as soon as the teacher leaves the room. 
And yet if New Yorkers have not become as compliant as the mayor would like, they have accepted some sort of implicit swap of primal energies for prosperity and peace. Think, for example, of what has become of Times Square. With its sex shops and touts and roiling street life, Times Square was the tawdry symbol of the city's carnivalesque abandon. Now it has all given way to Disney and the Virgin megastore and a 25-screen theater and theme restaurants that evoke the mood of the city they have supplanted. Of course, it was the economic boom that made the new Times Square possible, but it was the mayor's quality-of-life campaign that made the place fit for corporate habitation. This new Times Square is the emblem of Giuliani's safe, clean, family-friendly New York; he presided euphorically over the New Year's Eve ball drop. 
And so, yes, Times Square has been drained of its old life. But let's remember what that life had come to be -- not the raffish New York of A.J. Liebling and Joe Mitchell but a mean and menacing precinct where you wouldn't even think to take a tourist. In a much discussed 1992 article in the urban affairs quarterly City Journal, the historian Fred Siegel described "the slow subversion of civility in New York's public places" and argued that the old "street ballet" of urban life had been degraded into "roller derby." The new global-entertainment-complex Times Square will not restore the street ballet, but it offers an acceptable vision of urban life to New Yorkers who had grown weary of roller derby.
Giuliani's New York no longer prizes its own perversity; it has gotten with the program. And this implies another change in the city's culture. New York's elite traditionally viewed the world of business as a necessary evil. In the status scale, Spike Lee and Cindy Crawford, or even Philippe de Montebello, outranked the chairman of Chase Manhattan Bank by an infinite number of points. But this has begun to change for reasons that, once again, have nothing directly to do with City Hall: in New York, as in most of the rest of the country (only more so), dot-com entrepreneurs made capitalism romantic again in the 90's, socialism died and everybody acquired a portfolio. The cool has definitely gone out of the anti-business posture in Giuliani's New York. 
Fifteen years ago, when merchants and developers began banding together to form business improvement districts, or BID's, in order to police and clean commercial areas, there were cries of "parallel government." (Indeed, the mayor, though a great booster of the BID's in theory, declared war on one of them when he felt that it was overshadowing his own achievements.) But it was the Times Square BID that really turned the area around, and the same is true of BID's in the area around Grand Central Terminal or the Metrotech commercial zone in Brooklyn. The black and Hispanic men in jumpsuits who clean trash from the sidewalks of some of the city's wealthiest areas were once taken as an emblem of glaring inequality. Now they're a familiar and accepted part of city life. To recognize yourself recognizing that is to discover how Giuliani has altered the city's inner life.
Many of us have probably had a Giuliani moment at some point in recent years. I think my own came the summer before last when I saw an opera, "Food of Love," written by the playwright Terrence McNally, in which a white middle-class woman and her infant are rendered homeless for reasons unexplained. Passersby refuse to take the child from the mother, a policeman behaves abusively and the infant dies. I was supposed to be sickened by New York -- Giuliani's New York, that is -- but instead, I found myself disgusted by the author's cheap moral point-scoring. Didn't McNally know that the woman could go to a shelter? Wouldn't the cop have told her so? Does he really think that the homeless consist of ordinary New Yorkers cast out into the snow by greedy landlords -- that New York is Dickens's London? 
What, then, is a Giuliani Moment? Is it the means by which we rationalize our own hardheartedness, buoyed by the knowledge that the sufferings of the vulnerable are not our fault? Or is it rather an impatience with the endless back and forth of accusation and guilt that lies beneath so much reflexive liberalism? Giuliani has addressed New Yorkers' impatience and licensed a new kind of tough-mindedness. But he hasn't legitimized heartlessness -- though, arguably, as with his campaign to suppress dissent, he has tried. In 1999, the same year I saw the opera, the mayor decided to cultivate self-reliance among the homeless by denying shelter to those who had refused to accept workfare assignments, making exceptions only for the severely mentally ill. As Mary Brosnahan, the executive director of the Coalition for the Homeless and one of the mayor's inveterate critics, asks, "At the end of the day, no matter how dysfunctional a person is, oughtn't there be some place for them to go?" A judge overturned Giuliani's edict, and, Brosnahan points out, polls show that 80 percent of New Yorkers would like the city to invest in more housing and services for the homeless. These are the same New Yorkers who applaud the "quality of life" initiative that has swept many homeless people from the streets and the subways. 
Giuliani hasn't killed compassion, but he has exposed its inadequacy as policy. In his recent biography of the mayor, "Rudy Giuliani: Emperor of the City," Andrew Kirtzman writes, "Rudy Giuliani ended the 50-year reign of liberalism in New York City." If the core of liberalism is the willingness to spend money in the name of compassion, then this judgment is probably hyperbolic. And yet the truth is that certain tenets of liberalism were so worm-eaten by the time Giuliani came along, so much a matter of public rhetoric rather than actual belief, that all they needed was a strong push. 
What really did in the old order was the exhausting and frightening sequence of public dramas that marked the early 90's. There was the race riot that broke out in the summer of 1991 after a group of Hasidic Jews driving a car accidentally hit and killed a black child in the Crown Heights neighborhood of Brooklyn. There was the violence that same year in Tompkins Square Park, when Mayor Dinkins's police force evicted the army of squatters and homeless people who had turned the park into a squalid encampment from which mothers and children had long fled. There was the 1992 riot after a police officer shot and killed Jose Garcia, a drug dealer in Washington Heights, and the rumor spread that he had been shot in cold blood. (He was killed during a skirmish with the police officer when he resisted arrest.) Dinkins apologized to the family and paid for his funeral. That year, there was also the terrifying rampage of Larry Hogue, a mentally ill homeless person, on the streets of the Upper West Side. "Society can't eliminate risk," a civil liberties lawyer blithely said at the time. You can see why Reverend Butts thought New York was about to be overrun. 
Giuliani was widely ridiculed when he vowed that he would arrest low-level drug offenders, aggressive panhandlers and squeegee operators. "Killers and rapists are a city's real public enemies," Dinkins scolded, "not squeegee pests and homeless mothers." The "homeless mothers" crack was meant to imply that Giuliani would be targeting the most vulnerable instead of the most dangerous. But you couldn't get the kind of mileage out of that insult that you could before; the sense of victimization was simply too widespread. Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan provided Giuliani with the perfect rallying cry when he coined the phrase "defining deviancy down." That was exactly what it had felt like: we had gotten used to accepting the unacceptable. The essence of Giuliani's campaign was, "You don't have to."
It was a terrain that made liberals, especially white liberals who were shielded from the city's grimmer realities, extremely uneasy. Giuliani, however, had the great advantage of being completely unambiguous. He once defined "freedom" as "the willingness of every single human being to cede to lawful authority a great deal of discretion about what you do and how you do it." The key to Giuliani's quality-of-life campaign was the idea that there was a collective right to safe and orderly public space that trumped the individual rights of the squeegee operators and aggressive panhandlers and street vendors and graffiti artists who were abusing that space. And for all their abstract attachment to the right of free expression, or the right of association, even cloistered liberals turned out to be eager to see deviancy defined back up. Who defends graffiti anymore? Giuliani has not only made it safe to admit that you don't like graffiti; he has also legitimized the idea that you have a right to a graffiti-free environment. He has, more broadly, legitimized the very idea of collective, rather than individual, rights. Even Norman Siegel, the executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union and a man who is pleased to make a meal of Giuliani every chance he gets, concedes, "Now not only the perception, but I think the expectation of whoever comes next, is that you're going to have to continue to have that kind of city, and we don't want the squeegee guy or the panhandlers out on the street."
This change in expectation is in turn linked to something deeper: the assumption that a city, and a mayor, can alter what appeared to be unalterable. From the time of the "urban crisis" in the 60's, cities have appeared to be trapped in the web of the national forces of race and poverty and economic decline. There wasn't much that mayors could do. When we think today of the late John Lindsay, mayor from 1966 to 1973, we remember not what he accomplished but what he was -- the impossibly handsome and glamorous host of Fun City, the brave and solitary figure bringing calm to Harlem while cities elsewhere burned. Ed Koch earned New Yorkers' gratitude by leading the city out of the fiscal crisis of the mid-70's, but Koch, too, came to see himself as the city's mascot and emblem, a garrulous, wisecracking cabdriver behind the wheel of City Hall. Koch did little to address the city's besetting problems, including crime and welfare.
And then the idea of the mayor as an incarnational figure reached its high point under Dinkins, who often seemed to preside over the city, elegantly and with infinite forbearance, rather than govern it. Dinkins really was dealt a terrible hand, but he was always quick to note how little he could do to reverse the city's fortunes. He once pointed out that he could exercise control over only two-tenths of one percent of the city's nearly $30 billion budget. Dinkins offered himself as a healer, a figure around whom New Yorkers of all races and ethnic backgrounds could rally, but this was also a way of saying that he could solve moral problems rather than substantive ones. 
In the early 1990's, New York seemed, at least to elites, like a fragile place that might not withstand rough handling. And yet by 1993, many New Yorkers had had enough of humane intentions; they wanted the city to be shaken. By vowing to clean up the streets and to reduce crime sharply, Giuliani and his police commissioner, William Bratton, were promising to do something that New Yorkers, and experts, were not really convinced could be done. And of course they did it; in the first three years of Giuliani's mayoralty, the index of major crimes fell 16 percent, 14 percent and 7 percent, respectively. Murders dropped by more than half. 
At first, recalls Chris Stone, the executive director of the Vera Institute of Justice, critics attributed Giuliani's success to everything save police tactics. But the argument rapidly became untenable. "The thing that Giuliani was right about and the critics were wrong about is that this is about human activity," Stone says. "I've always felt that the mayor's belief that human beings create the city we live in and we can change the city -- and it's not the weather, and it's not demographics, and it's not some abstract economic force -- was a really important thing. But like a lot of people, I was surprised at how big a difference it's made."
It was more than a surprise; it was a rebuke to the liberal assumption that crime, poverty, homelessness and so forth are driven by vast, impersonal forces that municipal government can only hope to mitigate, if that. Giuliani believed in the exact opposite: that nothing matters save acts of individual will, whether a mayor's or a drug addict's. And putting aside whether he was right, he proved that you could make headway if you believed you could. The drop in crime "requires us in the silence of our hearts to readjust some of our own most deeply held beliefs," argues Myron Magnet, the editor of City Journal and an unabashed voice for conservatism. "And we've done it. We no longer believe that in order to solve crime we have to deal with the root causes of poverty and racism; we now believe that we can reduce crime through good policing. The root causes of crime are not poverty and racism. They're criminals. And what the root causes of criminals are we can debate about."
The moral foundation of urban liberalism is its longstanding and ardent concern for the poor. Rudy Giuliani's contribution to this tradition is an altogether novel proposition: the best way to help the poor is to reduce crime. Giuliani has made unprecedented cuts in welfare spending, cut financing for institutions like the City University of New York and tried to privatize the public hospitals that poor New Yorkers count on even for basic medical care. But whenever he is criticized for insensitivity to poor New Yorkers, most of whom are black or Hispanic, the mayor points out that thousands of such citizens are alive owing to the drop in the murder rate, for which he takes credit. He kicked off his final State of the City speech last month by observing that felonies in the city had dropped during his time as mayor from 8,259 a week to 3,556, which meant that about a quarter of a million felonies a year were not being committed; most of the victims would have been poor and working-class New Yorkers. Isn't preserving people's lives, well-being and property the most compassionate policy of all? 
I tested out this theory in late December and early January when I spent several days in Flatbush, a largely Caribbean neighborhood in central Brooklyn, asking people how they felt the neighborhood had changed in the Giuliani years. As I rode up and down Flatbush Avenue on the "dollar vans" that ply the neighborhood, the answer was almost always the same: the streets are safer. Selby Gailack, a substitute teacher who lives in a project in Canarsie, immediately to the southeast of Flatbush, said: "I used to sit out on the stoop, but things got so bad that I would have to race back inside. Now I'm sitting out on the stoop again." Like most of the women I spoke to on the van, she gave the mayor high marks for improving safety and spoke of him without rancor. 
I put the same question to the van driver, Paul Richards, a Jamaican immigrant, and he said: "I am a Democrat, but Giuliani to me is very great. Between Classon Avenue and Midwood, you had a crime-rich area -- drug use and murder, you name it. Since he has been in power, that has dropped dramatically." Richards said he worries that the Democratic contenders would prove too "soft" and that crime would start rising again.
Most everyone on the van attributed Giuliani's success to heightened police presence. But it was Dinkins, not Giuliani, who increased the size of the police force, starting in 1991. Crime began to drop rapidly only when Commissioner Bratton instituted the Compstat system to pinpoint and attack high-crime areas and also adopted aggressive police tactics designed to drive guns off the streets. Instead of waiting for a crime to occur, a police officer would approach someone on the street whom he had probable cause to suspect of gun possession or some other crime and search him for weapons. Or an officer might stop someone for a misdemeanor like fare-beating or drinking on the street and pat him down. This stop-and-frisk policy, as it was called, succeeded in drastically reducing gun violence, but it also subjected a whole population in the city -- young black and Hispanic men -- to repeated searches. And it turned into a full-blown catastrophe in 1999, when four members of the Street Crimes Unit, which specialized in getting guns off the street, shot and killed a Guinean immigrant named Amadou Diallo, who turned out to have been unarmed. 
When figures like the Rev. Al Sharpton say that Giuliani's police officers constitute an occupying army in minority communities, it is these aggressive tactics they are thinking of. Stop-and-frisk seems to undermine Giuliani's claims that the war on crime has been a boon to black and Hispanic New Yorkers. The cost of the strategy appears to outweigh whatever benefits it provides. It is virtually certain, in fact, that all four of the Democrats who are hoping to succeed Giuliani after the election this November will make some variation on this argument. Peter F. Vallone, the speaker of the City Council and the most conservative of the four, says: "I believe that crime may have gone down more statistically by having people stopped and searched and frisked, but I don't think the bottom line is how many guns are taken off the street or how many arrests are made. I think the bottom line is, How much more involved in crime prevention is the local community?" Mark Green, the city's public advocate and the candidate of the liberal left, says, "This is America in the 21st century, not Chile in the 1970's -- you can't just stop everyone."
Practically everyone I met in Flatbush had some experience of being stopped by the police. An 18-year-old student who refused to give her name said she had been both pulled over in a car and accosted on the street and had come to hate Giuliani and his cops. A livery cabdriver, a slightly wild-looking character, had had one run-in with the police after another, some of them frightening. But they were the exceptions -- not because they had been stopped but because they resented it so bitterly. 
Paul Richards, the van driver, said he had been stopped and frisked several times, sometimes by cops whose attitudes he didn't like. But, he said: "I'm going to tell you what's good about it. When you have people carrying a weapon, you don't know where you're going to be stopped, so what are you going to do? You're going to stop carrying a weapon. They say it violates your rights, but you gotta do something." Mike Hylton, the proprietor of Mike's International Restaurant, told me that several years ago he was bringing down the shutter of his restaurant when two men suddenly shouted, "Hands up against the wall!" Only then did the men identify themselves as police officers. After Hylton satisfied them that he was closing his restaurant, not robbing it, they left. Hylton was shaken and furious, but he views the practice as effective policing and wouldn't want to see it end, just change a little. "I don't have a problem with putting my hands against the wall," he says, "but at least approach me decently."
What people say on the streets of Flatbush accords with the view of experts. The problem is not the stop-and-frisk policy itself, but "how you're treated during that stop-and-frisk," argues Chris Stone of the Vera Institute of Justice. "Do you get an explanation? Do you get an apology?" And Geoffrey Canada, president of the Rheedlen Centers for Children and Families, a highly respected social-service agency in Harlem, generally applauds the mayor's uncompromising stance on crime and suggests that the stop-and-frisk problem was scarcely insuperable. Canada says: "If the mayor had gone and said to African-Americans, 'You know what, I know this is really tough on folks -- let me explain why I'm doing it,"' he might well have won them over. Indeed, the new police commissioner, Bernard Kerik, has been remarkably open about the damage that Giuliani's approach has done to relations between the police and the minority community and has embarked on a campaign to do just what Canada suggests.
Flatbush probably gives a distorted picture of the city's racial politics. Most of the residents are black, but they are immigrants. And on many subjects they sound like white ethnic immigrants always have. For example, I could not find anyone in the neighborhood, save for Councilwoman Una Clarke, who said the mayor had acted harshly in booting half a million people off welfare. A fairly typical comment came from Michele Rebecca, a nurse's assistant who said she would be "more than happy" to see Giuliani leave office. But when I asked about welfare, she said: "You pay your bills, and these people stay home watching TV. That's not right." The view of Richards, the van driver, was, "Without welfare, you're going to have fewer kids, because you're thinking, The government's going to take care of my kids." 
Immigrants are, in a way, the new minority group of the Giuliani Era. Immigrants have been arriving in New York in very large numbers since 1965, but up through the Koch and Dinkins years the city was transfixed by race and by racial psychodramas. President Clinton even suggested right before the 1993 election that Dinkins might lose because "too many of us are still too unwilling to vote for people who are different than we are." It was a black-white world, or a "minority"-white world. But Giuliani, who never even made a serious attempt to get along with the city's principal black and Hispanic leaders, embraced the new immigrant population from the outset. Immigrants were the living vindication of Giuliani's harsh faith in self-reliance; they succeeded by dint of heroic acts of will. Giuliani must have been one of the nation's few mayors -- certainly one of its few Republican ones -- who celebrated not only legal but also illegal immigration.
The black-white Kerner Commission world is passing into history in New York -- and with it, perhaps, the racial politics that dominated the Koch and Dinkins years. Both the native-born white and the native-born black populations are shrinking. Hispanics now slightly outnumber blacks in New York, 27 to 26 percent. Asians constitute 10 percent of the population, as do immigrants classified as white; 35 percent of New Yorkers overall are foreign-born. 
Since many of the new immigrants are not yet citizens, and registration and voting tends to be low among those who are, several years may have to pass before they get their full share of political spoils and recognition. But immigrants have quickly come to dominate institutions of social mobility, like the City University system. And their increasing presence has already produced a subtle change in the city's political atmosphere. Immigrants tend to identify themselves less by race or ethnicity than by values and economic aspirations. This corrodes old categories and undermines the assumption that there is a minority "point of view." If liberalism's moral force comes from its identification with minorities and the socially marginal, then liberals may find themselves readjusting their assumptions. You can imagine a new species of progressive politics, still concerned with issues of "access" and spending on social services but significantly tougher on school standards, welfare, crime and the like.
You cannot, of course, think about Giuliani's New York without contemplating the giddy boom that has reigned since the mid-90's. The mayor is just lucky to be governing at a time when billions of dollars are sluicing through Wall Street and the media empires building their fortresses in and around Times Square, but the boom nevertheless bears a Giuliani shape. City Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, one of the four Democratic mayoral hopefuls, says: "I correlate the 37 million tourists in New York to what he did with the crime rate. I correlate the applications to our universities and colleges, the highest in history, to the perception of a safer, cleaner city." New York feels like a magnet again, and the real-estate industry seems to have gotten over its fears of overbuilding. Parts of the city that have been untouched by development for years are now being transformed. In the tatty neighborhood where I have my office, at Sixth Avenue in the 20's, four skyscrapers are in varying stages of completion, three of them on sites that were parking lots. 
Manhattan looks better than it has in many years; Grand Central Terminal, the Public Library and the other great monuments have been buffed to a high sheen. The city's trophy properties -- Rockefeller Center, the Chrysler Building, the Citigroup Center -- have changed hands at a bewildering rate, as owners discovered they can take staggering profits. (A Johnny-come-lately real-estate family paid $725 million for Citigroup last month.) Hotels and restaurants are teeming. The rich have never been richer. The New York Observer, the weekly newspaper of the city's rarefied classes, uses the front page of one of its three sections to cover the most stupefying apartment purchase of the moment, usually carrying a price upward of $5 million. The new rich compete to outbid one another for trinkets at the fund-raisers of their childrens' private schools.
The rich have gotten richer, and the poor have gotten safer: isn't that a fair deal? It would be if being safe were as all-encompassing as being rich. The truth is that the poor aren't getting any less poor; Harvey Robins, a director of operations under Dinkins and a kind of shadow mayor for disgruntled liberals, points out that the city's poverty rate of 22 percent is just as bad as it was in the midst of the recession of the early 90's. The number of food pantries has actually increased, to 1,150 from 750. Robins argues that the mayor has cared far more about throwing people off welfare than about finding them permanent jobs and has focused on "the visible downtown" to the detriment of the rest of the city. And those skyrocketing real-estate levels have priced much of the city's middle and working classes out of the housing market. Giuliani has essentially ignored the problem of affordable housing until this year, when he proposed spending $600 million to underwrite construction of new housing. 
That starving infant in Terrence McNally's opera is not Giuliani's New York. But the young Dominican family living doubled-up with their in-laws in a rickety walk-up in Washington Heights because they can't afford a place of their own, using the emergency room of the local hospital as their pediatric clinic because they don't have health insurance, trying to scrape up the money for parochial school because the local elementary school is a disaster -- they are Giuliani's New York, just as surely as Grand Central and Times Square and the Trump Tower-Plaza-Palace are Giuliani's New York. They're not the mayor's heroic immigrants; they're just part of that 22 percent of the city that lives in poverty.
New York is a place of monumental inequality, both between the rich and the poor and between the center and the periphery. That is perhaps an inevitable consequence of Manhattan's position as the center of the global economy, but it festers nevertheless -- among the poor and among the city's very large class of citizens who do not simply vote their material interests. I went to visit several members of that class early last month, a few days after my last trip to Flatbush. In fact, I moved only a few blocks to the west, to Midwood, a largely white, homeowning, professional neighborhood. I drove down blocks of tree-lined, snowbound streets to the fine Victorian home of Lisa and Joe Mislowack, a junior-high-school Spanish teacher and an executive with the Greater New York Hospital Association, respectively. The Mislowacks had invited three of their friends. One, Linda McLean, a high-school guidance counselor, initially hazarded that "the quality of life has drastically improved," before it became clear that the sense of the group was running in a very different direction. None of the others said the mayor had made their own lives any better, and they said they felt strongly that he had made the lives of others worse.
Gail Morin, a corporate recruiter, asked of Giuliani's homeless program: "Is the goal to help these people? Or is it not to see these people?" Her husband, John, a court officer, said he expected to see a new flood of the homeless in the outer boroughs as the five-year time limits in the federal welfare law kicked in. The mayor is "just scratching the surface," he said. "He's not getting down to the problems underneath." Lisa Mislowack talked about the ruinous overcrowding in the schools, while Joe said his message to the next mayor would be, "Pay attention to the community." They all said that Giuliani had allowed services for ordinary New Yorkers to deteriorate as he courted big business and tourism. 
I then walked around the corner to visit Merle McEldowney, a recently retired chief probation officer in the Brooklyn courts. McEldowney said explicitly what had plainly been in the atmosphere at the Mislowacks': "I don't want to give Giuliani credit -- nobody does. Nobody likes him." McEldowney conceded that Giuliani had made life in the city better, but she said that he had also made it meaner. And she framed the issue in a way that any prospective mayoral candidate looking to court the liberal vote would be well advised to emulate. "I think you've got a right to walk in the streets," she said. "But you also have a right to a decent shelter. My question is, Where are these people? And that's the way I feel about the whole city. My house looks clean, right? Go upstairs. The upstairs is the homeless shelters. The upstairs are the schools that are falling apart. The upstairs is the kids who have nowhere to go and play." 
Choose your metaphor: scratching the surface or stashing the ugliness in the attic. What remains of traditional liberalism is a consciousness of poverty and a sensitivity to inequality. The next mayor will almost certainly be expected to speak this all-but-forgotten language. The question is, Can you imagine a new language, and a new set of precepts, that are not simply a restatement of the old language and precepts that the mayor has discredited? Can you satisfy Merle McEldowney without returning to the world that Paul Richards is so happy to have left behind? What does liberalism have to offer immigrant strivers? 
Harvey Robins speaks of a "third way," which is neither discredited bureaucratic liberalism nor the mayor's highhanded and hardhearted brand of politics. But any expression that implies an equality of failure between Giuliani and the city's dominant ethos before him ought to be regarded with suspicion. Robins, like many others, is convinced that the city could reduce crime even further by forgoing highly aggressive tactics in favor of "community policing," but experts like Chris Stone or Thomas Reppetto, president of the Citizens Crime Commission, argue that closer cooperation between the police and neighborhoods can complement, but not replace, Giuliani's full-court press. 
A better way of looking at it might be to say that Giuliani's agenda has turned out to be radically incomplete. The mayor has a passion for suppressing the bad but not for cultivating the good. And so he has devised one-dimensional solutions to tangled problems like homelessness and welfare. He demanded substantial cuts in personnel at the Board of Education, but he never formulated a vision of school, and of the classroom, that might be achieved once the bureaucratic obstructions had been removed. He neglected services in the city's neighborhoods in favor of Wall Street and Midtown (as virtually all mayors do). He has ignored the critical shortage of housing. And, having surrounded himself with loyalists and pals, he has done nothing to create a body of government professionals. "The next mayor," Mitchell Moss of the Taub Urban Research Center at New York University observes, "is going to have to rebuild the management cadre of New York."
A public figure leaves a "legacy" only if his principles or policies alter the chemistry of his world, so that they come to be repeated unconsciously, or embraced by figures who might otherwise repudiate him. Giuliani seems to pass this test easily. Reverend Butts describes the mayor as "an insecure kid with a machine gun," but adds, "I think on many issues I agree with him." Norman Siegel of the Civil Liberties Union credits the mayor with reducing the welfare rolls by half without, as Siegel expected, creating a new army of the homeless. "When you have those kinds of dramatic decreases in the numbers," Siegel concedes, "it really is a put-your-head-in-the-sand approach if you don't recognize that something has dramatically changed." Even Norman Siegel -- that's a pretty high standard.
Giuliani has plainly altered elite opinion; has he altered political opinion? Or rather, to put it more squarely, has he persuaded his would-be successors that it's in their interest to get on his side of some of the issues? I asked each of the four Democratic candidates whether Giuliani had convinced them of anything. This probably qualifies as a disingenuous question, since politicians preparing to sell themselves to the public rarely think it's a good idea to admit that they once didn't know something that most people consider true. When I posed the question to Peter Vallone, he shot straight into campaign mode. "My leadership role began with Ed Koch in 1986," he said, with the air of a man commencing on a speech. "I govern every single day, and I make leadership decisions that affect the lives of the people." I gently reminded Vallone of my question. He thought for a moment, and said: "My views have changed on discrimination. I had no idea when I first came in there was a real problem in terms of sexual discrimination." This revelation, of course, had nothing to do with Giuliani, though it had a great deal to do with Vallone's hopes of courting gays, lesbians and straight women in a Democratic primary. 
Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx borough president, used the opportunity to take a campaign metaphor out for a spin. "Rudy's driven the bus," he said. "The only problem with that is that in driving the bus, there were too many New Yorkers who had to walk instead of ride." Alan Hevesi, the most analytical or at least technocratic of the four, said, after a ruminative pause, that he gave the mayor "full credit" for the reduction in crime, as well as for "participating with us" -- meaning, agreeing with Alan Hevesi -- in a change in attitude by the city toward business." No sign of conversion there, either. Mark Green took the laurels on soul-searching. The mayor, he said, had forced him to reconsider his beliefs "less than I'd like, but more than I would have expected eight years ago." 
Green recalled having debated the conservative labor economist Lawrence Mead and denouncing the idea of workfare as a device for making the poor "dance for their supper." Green said that he has jettisoned that view. "I was wrong," he said, in a burst of candor that, used sparingly, might serve him well in the coming campaign.
Maybe the I-was-wrong standard is too restrictive. The mayor's critics and rivals are, understandably, much more comfortable saying that they always knew that something or other the mayor did was right, even if they weren't known to have said so. By this standard, Giuliani seems to have pretty much swept the board with his quality-of-life campaign. Hevesi says that despite his "100 percent voting record from the A.C.L.U.," he never viewed aggressive panhandling in civil liberties terms. Ferrer says that he was "an early adherent" of the widely publicized theories that underpinned the mayor's crusade against street crime. At the same time, all four candidates favor some form of community policing in lieu of the mayor's hard-line tactics. This will instantly improve City Hall's relationship with minority leaders. But you have to wonder what will happen if crime starts to inch back up. 
An intriguing, and very open, question will be the durability of Giuliani's draconian line on the budget, at least during hard times. New York had long been ruled by a sentiment once succinctly expressed by Mayor Robert Wagner: "Human needs are greater than budgetary needs." By the time Giuliani took office, the city's deficit had reached $2.3 billion. Instead of projecting dubious revenues or blaming Washington -- classic gambits both -- he proposed a reduction of 15,000 in the city's work force and $1.2 billion from individual agencies. Giuliani never tried to raise taxes, and as soon as the city's finances improved, he began to implement cuts in a wide range of taxes, including the sales tax and the hated commercial rent tax. Mitchell Moss of N.Y.U. observes: "The normal way New York operated up until recently was that you invented a new revenue stream whenever you wanted to do something. Koch tried to tax the interstate share of long-distance telephone calls. Giuliani changed the culture of the city with regard to tax cuts. He made people realize that New York City isn't on an endless tax-increase spiral." 
Will that prove to be a permanent change? Peter Vallone brags that he has been calling for limited government since 1986, while Alan Hevesi praises Giuliani for remaining "austere" in hard times. At the same time, the next mayor will be under tremendous pressure to find the money to pay police officers, teachers and librarians enough to keep them from decamping for the suburbs, to increase financing for welfare-reform measures, to build more affordable housing and so on. And the surplus is scheduled to vanish by the next budget. As with crime, we'll see what happens when the rubber hits the road.
One thing that can be said for sure is that the next mayor is going to be a much nicer guy than the current one. Practically anyone would be: Giuliani managed to hound both a schools chancellor and a City University chancellor out of town through sheer force of sustained public invective. Ed Koch compiled a book of his newspaper columns on the mayor and gave it the splendidly blunt title "Giuliani, Nasty Man." The men who hope to succeed the mayor are all conciliatory figures; we will have no more smashing of temples and manhandling of priests. Mark Green has already come up with a clever formulation on this score. "You can get things done the Billy Martin way," he says, "or you can get things done the Joe Torre way."
But let us give the last word, as the first, to the Rev. Calvin Butts, who says that he is not quite ready to run for mayor himself but expects to be sometime quite soon. Butts has studied Giuliani carefully and has learned a great many lessons from doing so. And he has, he says, come to a straightforward conclusion about the art of governing: "You cannot be a well-liked all-around popular guy and still be an effective mayor -- you've got to be a tough guy with a sensitive side." The next mayor will have to find a way of cultivating the good without failing to suppress the bad. 

GRAPHIC: Photos (Edward Keating/ The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); MAYORS (89%); RELIGION (78%); LOITERING & VAGRANCY (76%); MURDER (74%); HOMELESSNESS (74%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (70%); TRENDS (70%); LIBERALISM (69%); POLITICS (64%); SUBURBS (50%); COCAINE (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MAYORS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; VAGRANCY AND VAGRANTS; PUBLIC OPINION 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (91%) TRAUB, JAMES; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); DINKINS, DAVID N; BUTTS, CALVIN O 3D (REV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE AND 42ND STREET (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



302 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 3; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2538 words

HEADLINE: Art Commission: Elitist Bastion or Aesthetic Boon? 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
IT seemed to be an open question at the end of the 20th century whether the New York City Art Commission, a product of the 19th, would survive into the 21st.
 As the result of a battle over unauthorized yardarm-style flagpoles, it faced the prospect last year of being abolished as "unduly burdensome and duplicative" under a bill introduced by Councilman James S. Oddo of Staten Island and 18 co-sponsors. Parks Commissioner Henry J. Stern, who installed the flagpoles, was denouncing the commission for "arrogance, elitism and a patronizing attitude," while John S. Dyson, an adviser to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, was describing it as a "kind of creaky, old-fashioned institution." 
 Yet it's still here. Tomorrow, the Art Commission will convene at City Hall, as it does every month but August, to weigh the aesthetic merits of dozens of construction projects and installations. Under the City Charter, no structure may be built on city-owned property and no public artwork installed until its design has been approved by the Art Commission, an 11-member, unpaid body. 
A project can be as small as a taxi-stand lamppost or a comfort station. It can be as large as a ferry terminal or baseball stadium.
Jean Parker Phifer, an architect and the current president of the commission, would like to see it do more than review projects. Among her goals are to promote energy-efficient construction, to examine how security measures can be designed to be less aesthetically intrusive, to increase the amount of public art and to raise the quality of street fixtures in neighborhoods outside business improvement districts. The commission also tries to encourage the city to hire the best architects, in part by conferring design awards annually. This year's ceremony is to be held in April.
All that activity does not sound like the agenda of a doomed agency.
"The Art Commission has the mayor's support," Mr. Giuliani's press secretary, Sunny Mindel, said Wednesday. As for efforts to abolish the commission, she said simply, "It's not happening."
Even Mr. Oddo allows that the shadow has lifted as a result of his legislative wake-up call. "The folks at the Art Commission have made a good-faith effort to improve communication," he said. "We'd like to improve our relationship so projects aren't held up unnecessarily."
Timing is critical to any construction project and that can lead to conflict, acknowledged Kenneth Holden, commissioner of the Department of Design and Construction. "I have no problem whatsoever with the Art Commission and with its drive to make the city as beautiful as possible and to maintain aesthetic standards," Mr. Holden said.
However, he said, the mayor created the Department of Design and Construction, which oversees projects for 21 agencies, to streamline procedures.
"Inevitably," Mr. Holden said, "that puts me in conflict with a voluntary board that meets on a regular though infrequent basis, when I'm trying to move projects along. That's an O.K. tension, quite frankly. Is it my biggest problem? I wish it was. The city will be in great shape when the Art Commission is its biggest problem."
Ms. Phifer said she was reaching out to agency heads to persuade them to submit projects earlier for review, so that any necessary design revisions can be incorporated while there is still ample time.
While Mr. Oddo's bill, Intro No. 756, has not been withdrawn, it is not likely to advance either; not against the opposition of Speaker Peter F. Vallone. In any event, the point of introducing a bill, Mr. Oddo said, was not necessarily passage. "The goal," he said, "is to move an issue forward."
And Council members like Philip Reed of Manhattan, a co-sponsor of the bill, are by no means finished with the issue.
"Who reviews the Art Commission?" Mr. Reed asked. "I don't think it's irresponsible or irrational to say we should look at what the Art Commission does. Their argument is, 'We've been around for 100 years.' Well, hello! Isn't that an argument for change?"
If Intro No. 756 was a wake-up call, the commission heard it. "We certainly stood up and took notice," Ms. Phifer said.
Her predecessor, Reba White Williams, quit in 1998 out of frustration with Mr. Stern, whom Mrs. Williams called a "scofflaw and liar" in her resignation letter. She then sued the administration. The case was settled when the city agreed to seek approval for the yardarms or to remove them.
Last year, commission members traveled to Staats Circle in the Rosebank section of Staten Island, part of Mr. Oddo's district and site of an unauthorized yardarm.
THERE, they heard local veteran groups explain why they were so attached to the flagpole, which they had been trying to get the city to install for years. As they saw it, the commission's effort to remove the yardarm was unwelcome interference from an agency that did not know the neighborhood.
"We're a peace-loving people," said Louis J. Guerriero, past commander of Frederick Staats Post No. 517 of the American Legion. "But when we feel we're right -- especially about the flag -- we weren't going to let them get away with this."
Mr. Oddo credited Ms. Phifer with being a trouper for coming out to listen to the veterans. The unauthorized yardarm remains. Without conceding the point, the commission has moved on to other issues.
The yardarm battle highlights some questions that have hung over the Art Commission since its creation in 1898 and may never be resolved: As official design arbiter, just whose taste is it supposed to represent? The city's most discerning aesthetes? The mayor and his commissioners? Or a broader public and its local representatives?
"It's an organization that lends itself to give and take," Mr. Holden said. "Hopefully, from that back and forth, the city is getting the best aesthetic."
It is hard to assess the commission's performance meaningfully because those who know it best -- architects, landscape architects and artists whose work is under review -- are in most cases unwilling to speak publicly about their experiences unless they have something nice to say. They do not want to jeopardize future projects by criticizing a city agency in a news article, or by intimating that there is intramural conflict within the administration.
For example, an architect who described a project in which the budget had increased about 50 percent, in large measure because of changes requested by the commission, later called back to request anonymity.
Architects and agencies are also reluctant to discuss pending projects, lest their remarks influence the outcome. Even the powerful firm of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill refused to be drawn into discussing a project now before the Art Commission: the Public Service Answering Center in lower Manhattan, a seven-story, 150,000-square-foot structure that will serve the 911 network, with a connecting bridge to One Police Plaza, according to the newsletter of Weidlinger Associates, the consulting engineers.
Architects can sometimes use the review process to their strategic advantage. If commission members have shown enthusiasm for an innovative design feature, clients may be a little less inclined to eliminate that feature even if they are trying to pare costs, since its inclusion all but guarantees the commission's approval.
"Many people who represent agencies use the Art Commission to achieve things they couldn't on their own: better materials, better design," said Nicholas Quennell, who has had ample experience on both sides of the table, as president of the commission from 1994 to 1997 and as founding principal of Quennell Rothschild & Partners, a landscape architecture firm that has brought many projects to the commission.
Todd H. Schliemann, a partner in the Polshek Partnership, recalled that the Art Commission's endorsement of the glass curtain-wall facade of the Queens Borough Public Library branch on Main Street in Flushing was helpful in bolstering the client's confidence in this unusual approach.
Mr. Quennell said there were many people in the trenches trying to do good design. "If the Art Commission can help them," he said, "it's serving a wonderful purpose."
The Art Commission's original purpose was to uphold Beaux-Arts idealism in the face of the overwrought and sometimes underengineered buildings produced by architects in thrall to Tammany Hall.
In its infancy, the Art Commission was intimately linked to the private Municipal Art Society, Gregory F. Gilmartin wrote in "Shaping the City: New York and the Municipal Art Society" (Clarkson Potter, 1995). The first two presidents of the commission were simultaneously presidents of the society, one of several groups allied under the umbrella of the Fine Arts Federation, which nominated prospective Art Commission members for selection by the mayor.
"The Art Commission is by its structure antidemocratic," Commissioner Stern said. "They built into the Charter the elite cultural organizations which might have a particular classical view."
In the eyes of critics like Mr. Stern, the commission has not lost its patrician bias. "They sit on high benches in the old Board of Estimate chamber and the architects grovel below them," he said. "They take on very quickly the air of a high tribunal."
Needless to say, Ms. Phifer has a far different and user-friendlier interpretation of the commission's role. "We're really a free design consulting service and we have a lot of valuable insights," she said.
Four commission members serve ex officio. There is a representative of the mayor (currently Theodore P. Shen), the Brooklyn Museum (Robert S. Rubin), the Metropolitan Museum of Art (Joyce Frank Menschel) and the New York Public Library (Abby S. Milstein). The charter requires four professionals: an architect (Ms. Phifer), a landscape architect (Donald J. Walsh), a painter (Jean Rather) and a sculptor (John W. Rhoden until his death on Jan. 4). There are also three lay members (Michele H. Bogart, Bud Konheim and one vacancy).
Ms. Phifer works for a Manhattan architectural firm headed by her husband, Thomas Phifer & Partners. She recently prepared a master plan and conceptual design for the Lycee Francais de New York, which occupies six buildings on the Upper East Side.
Ms. Bogart, the vice president of the commission, is a professor of art history at the State University of New York at Stony Brook and the author of "Public Sculpture and the Civic Ideal in New York City, 1890-1930" (University of Chicago Press, 1989).
Occupying attic offices arrayed around the dome of the City Hall rotunda, the Art Commission has an executive director, Deborah Bershad, and two other paid employees. Its annual budget is less than $150,000.
Commission members serve without pay. Prospective members, except those who serve ex officio, are appointed by the mayor from a list compiled by the Fine Arts Federation, which includes the New York and Brooklyn chapters of the American Institute of Architects, the New York chapter of the American Planning Association, the Architectural League of New York, the Historic Districts Council, the Municipal Art Society, the National Academy of Design, the New York Landmarks Conservancy, the Parks Council and the Van Alen Institute.
Ms. Phifer believes the balance between lay members and professionals works well. "You want lay people to bring the average person's viewpoint," she said. "Often, it's the lay people who come up with the most insightful comments because they're not in the professions and they have a fresh eye."
And she said that while there is often a consensus within the disparate group, the commission did not have a particular design bent. But if there were an overall theme to its deliberations, it might be less is more.
"There are many times where we simplify a rather ornate proposal," Ms. Phifer said. "It not only saves the city money but makes for a more pleasing appearance."
For example, the city is now installing 15 lampposts between 39th and 53rd Streets, Avenue of the Americas and Eighth Avenue, to mark the location of taxi stands, where passengers can -- in theory -- find cabs.
When the proposal arrived at the commission, the globe had light-emitting diodes in changing colors and sat atop an ornate post modeled on those found in Central Park.
The commission asked for a solid taxi-yellow globe and a simpler lamppost.
Simplification was also the goal for two comfort stations designed by Arquitectonica, architects of the 45-story Westin New York hotel that is now rising at 43rd Street and Eighth Avenue. The small structures are to be built in Bloomingdale Park on the South Shore of Staten Island, as part of a controversial proposal to create ball fields and playing courts in what opponents describe as a wetland coastal habitat.
WITHOUT touching on the environmental issues, the commission generally applauded the building design, with rough-hewn stone walls, green columns sprouting from the ground and angular metal roofs meant to suggest origami or birds' wings.
"We were pleased that Arquitectonica took a standard design, tweaked it and came up with something playful," Ms. Phifer said. However, many commission members thought there ought to be fewer columns.
"The suggestion from the Art Commission was that we make it a little less dense," said Chris Reynolds, the vice president of Arquitectonica in charge of its New York office. "In the end, we agreed with them." (The rendering on the front page shows about half the number of columns originally intended for the facade.)
In reviewing the Richmond County Bank Ballpark, the new home of the Staten Island Yankees minor league team near the St. George ferry terminal, the commission was concerned about unbroken expanses of brick in the 150-foot-long facade of the concession and rest room pavilion along Wall Street. "There were a lot of blank walls," Ms. Phifer said. "We encouraged the designer to create visual interest for pedestrians."
Responding to that directive, Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum, which is designing the ball park and the terminal renovation for the Economic Development Corporation, added bays of glass block to the facade and increased the patterning of the brick work.
Concerned about over-commercialization, the commission is also reviewing the size and positioning of the sponsor's sign on the entrance. "That should not dominate the visitor's experience," Ms. Phifer said.
Kenneth H. Drucker, the senior principal and director of design in Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum's New York office, said of the commission, "We haven't found it to be an obstacle to moving projects forward."
"Anything that makes a public place better is good for an architect," he said.
At the Queens Family Court and City Agency Facility, now under construction in Jamaica, the commission asked for a modification of the facade facing Rufus King Park, so that it would look less like the main entrance. Pei Cobb Freed & Partners, designers of the building, with the firm Gruzen Samton, obligingly made the change.
"Architecture is a collective resource and firmly part of the public realm," said Ian Bader, a partner in Pei Cobb Freed. "We have a broad responsibility that goes way beyond the issue of self-expression. Architecture can, without question, be debated in the public arena."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Taxi-stand lampposts were simplified by the commission. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times); Proposed Staten Island comfort station, after the number of columns was reduced at the Art Commission's request. (Arquitectonica); A fight over this yardarm flagpole in Staten Island provoked a bill to abolish the commission. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 1); The Art Commission is reviewing the signage at the proposed minor league ballpark on Staten Island. (HOK Sports Facilities Group); Jean Parker Phifer, an architect, is the president of the Art Commission. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); DEREGULATION (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITIES (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); APPROVALS (73%); FERRIES (71%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (68%); GREEN BUILDING (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (65%); AWARDS & PRIZES (64%) ART; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; PUBLIC PROPERTY 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY ART COMMISSION 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%) DUNLAP, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



303 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: MY MONEY, MY LIFE; 
The Author as Impresario

BYLINE:  By NANCY LLOYD; Nancy Lloyd is the author of "Simple Money Solutions: 10 Ways You Can Stop Feeling Overwhelmed by Money and Start Making It Work for You" (Random House, 2000). Submit your account of struggling or succeeding as a worker, consumer, investor or entrepreneur to My Money, Money & Business, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or by e-mail to mymoney@nytimes.com. All submissions become the property of The Times. They may be edited and may be republished in any medium.

 BODY:
IF you write a book and Oprah Winfrey never mentions it, does it make any noise? If Larry King, Rosie O'Donnell and Regis Philbin forget to inviteyou to appear on their shows to talk about your book, can you still make it to the best-seller lists?
 After my first book about personal finance was published a year ago, the reviews were strong, and I was comfortable with the idea of promoting my hardcover labor of love. 
 Fortunately, I have never suffered from "mike fright" or experienced that petrified "Bambi in the headlights" stare when looking into a camera lens. I've been known to provide good sound bites, having reported for "Morning Edition" on National Public Radio and the "CBS Evening News," among others. And I am a former Federal Reserve Board economist with economics degrees from Cornell and Princeton. But sound credentials do not always ensure sales. 
A big problem arose five weeks before my book was scheduled to come out. My publishing house underwent a major reorganization, and my imprint was toast. Worse yet, my publisher-editor and strongest in-house advocate was no longer with the company, so the arrangements for a book tour fell to me. 
I worked the phones, and three days after the publication date, I kicked off my book tour on "Good Morning America" on ABC. At 7:30, Diane Sawyer did a teaser for the segment, using a handle made up by one of my editors: "We are going to meet a woman who has been called the Martha Stewart of Money, and she's going to tell us secrets about your bank."
Charles Gibson, the co-anchor, joked, "Does she decorate the money?" They both laughed, and the interview went well.
My editor had likened me to Ms. Stewart because of my success in multiple broadcast and print media. Earlier, Bob Edwards of "Morning Edition" first tried to tell me the advantages of having a "memorable handle." His suggestion: the Babe ofBucks. I laughed, but I guess he was right that a handle is important. 
Other national broadcasts as well as lectures and book signings have followed, and the response continues to be solid. I've been on several best-seller lists, including the top 100 of Amazon.com. 
BUT there has been another problem: glitches in some new inventory software kept books from arriving at some stores by the publication date and delayed some reorders. There is nothing more wrenching after a rousing talk than watching would-be buyers put cash back into their wallets because the bookseller ran short of copies. Is it worse for an author not to appear on big TV shows, or to appear but not have the book in the stores?
Inventory control is just one lesson that I have learned about the book business. Here are others:

MASS MOMENTUM -- A lot of publicity in a short time is better than more publicity spread over months. It increases the chances of hitting best-seller lists and creates synergy: a book is moved to the best-seller rack at the front of the store, where it is apt to be deeply discounted, driving more sales and free publicity.

SEX SELLS -- A background that includes the Ivy League and the Fed looks good on the dust jacket, but stiletto heels look fabulous on television, or so the male producers tell me. To enhance that long leggy look, I've learned to cross my legs without having the top leg touch the bottom one. (Oh, the pain that women endure.)

GIMMICK GAME -- Many of the financial books that fly off the shelves these days typically preach pseudopsychology or quasi spirituality, even though there is no proof -- other than the author's anecdotes -- that supports their claims. I knew about this trend, but chose to write about time-tested money advice that has proved to work.

CELEBRITY CRUNCH -- When Darva Conger, who briefly wanted to marry a multimillionaire, decided to do another segment on "Good Morning America" to plead once again for her privacy, I was bumped from my second live interview with Ms. Sawyer. Instead, I did an after-the-show taping with an ABC reporter who was substituting for her the next day. But taped interviews don't have the oomph of live ones. Several people have suggested that I add the Darva connection to my resume, but I have resisted so far.

OPRAH OPPORTUNITY -- While having my hair done for another television appearance, the hairdresser asked what I would discuss. I held up my book. She smiled and said, "I just saw a big display of your books at the entrance of Borders." But she had not bought it. So I asked her what would it have taken to make her buy it? Her immediate response: "If Oprah had told me to buy it, I would have."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Valerie Spain) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (91%); LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); BESTSELLERS (89%); BOOKSTORES (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); PUBLIC RADIO (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (60%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

COMPANY: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (56%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (56%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (51%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (51%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (73%); REGIS PHILBIN (72%); MARTHA STEWART (53%); DIANE SAWYER (53%) LLOYD, NANCY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: SIMPLE MONEY SOLUTIONS (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



304 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Revisiting the Iraq Sanctions 

 BODY:
A decade after he directed the victory of the United States and its allies in the Persian Gulf war, Colin Powell faces the difficult task of revitalizing the international effort to prevent Iraq from rearming. When he makes his first trip to the Middle East as secretary of state later this month, General Powell will essentially need to reinvent the rules for dealing with Iraq by enlisting the aid of regional leaders in tightening the arms embargo on Baghdad while simultaneously relaxing other trade sanctions. He will then have to gain the support of the United Nations Security Council for the revised approach.
 This page has strongly supported Washington's efforts over the last 10 years to prevent Saddam Hussein from regaining the military might to threaten his neighbors. When diplomatic pressure failed, we endorsed the use of American air strikes to force Iraqi compliance with United Nations arms control measures. Thwarting Mr. Hussein's ambition to rebuild his military forces must remain the central goal of American policy. 
 But it has become clear in recent months that the array of sanctions that the Security Council imposed on Iraq in the early 1990's has been rapidly weakening as Arab and Muslim countries grow impatient with the restrictions and two permanent members of the Council, Russia and France, press to ease Baghdad's isolation. Recent weeks have seen a rapid deterioration. Commercial flights to Iraq with uninspected cargo have resumed and Mr. Hussein has obtained billions of dollars in revenue from illicit oil sales that he can use to start rebuilding his capacity to develop nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. Because of Iraqi intransigence and the lingering divisions on the Security Council, no arms inspectors have set foot in Iraq since 1998.
The world needs a more cleary defined and enforceable strategy. To be effective, the policy must have the active support of Iraq's neighbors in the region, many of which want to relieve the hardships on the Iraqi people that have accompanied the sanctions. The continuing stalemate between Israel and the Palestinians has added to Arab restiveness.
The sensible response is to concentrate international efforts on controlling the flow of arms and related industrial goods into Iraq. An effective arms embargo requires both tight financial controls on how Baghdad spends its oil revenues and strict measures to prevent the sale or delivery of banned military items to Iraq from abroad. 
In theory, such a system is already in place. All of Iraq's legitimate oil income is deposited in an escrow account that is managed by the Security Council, which limits expenditures to civilian purposes. Sea, land and air cargo destined for Iraq is subject to inspection before it enters the country. But Mr. Hussein has maneuvered around the financial restrictions by smuggling oil to market, often with the acquiescence of nearby nations like Syria, Iran, Turkey and Jordan. He may soon start defying the ban on importing military goods because Iraq's borders are porous and few nations make an effort to block the sale or shipment of military goods to Baghdad.
To gain the cooperation of other states in enforcing the arms embargo and combatting Iraq's oil smuggling, Washington should offer a more flexible approach toward non-weapons imports. Currently, American diplomats are holding up billions of dollars of imports needed for civilian transportation, electric power generation, the oil industry and even medical treatment because they could potentially be put to military as well as civilian uses. 
Washington should agree to re-examine these items on a case-by-case basis. Imports likely to be used in the production of biological, chemical or nuclear weapons must remain banned, but controls on other items could be relaxed over time. This would also likely win Russian and French support.
A revitalized embargo will not resolve the long impasse over the return of U.N. inspectors to Iraq. For the moment, at least, the use of air strikes to force Mr. Hussein to readmit inspectors seems untenable because of international opposition. But Mr. Hussein must understand that the suspension or even eventual lifting of most remaining sanctions requires unfettered access by the inspectors to all suspected weapons sites. 
The Bush administration's initial action on Iraq was an ill-advised decision to assist opposition groups inside Iraq, even though they have little chance of undermining Mr. Hussein. But the administration has made clear it recognizes the weaknesses of the current sanctions system and hopes to rally support for limiting Iraq's access to weapons and military equipment. Using the formidable powers of a new presidency and his own high standing in the Middle East, General Powell must try to reconstruct a united and effective front against Mr. Hussein. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARMS EMBARGOES (89%); ARMS TRADE (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); INSPECTIONS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); SMUGGLING (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%) EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EDITORIALS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); GULF STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SYRIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); JORDAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); FRANCE (69%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



305 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Air Travel Difficulties Mount in Rural West 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: DENVER, Feb. 10 

 BODY:
Sitting at Gate 59 on the B concourse Friday morning, waiting for a flight back to Casper, Wyo., Richard and Becky Osborne looked anything but happy. They had arrived at Denver International Airport on Wednesday night on a United Airlines flight from Las Vegas, but their connecting flight and five more on Thursday had been either canceled by the late-week snowstorm or overbooked.
 "We live in rural America," said Mr. Osborne, the owner of a Napa Auto Parts store in his hometown, Riverton, Wyo., 120 miles west of Casper. "We have but one airline, so we have no choice." 
 The Osbornes are hardly the only small-town residents who have faced airline difficulties at a time when more Americans than ever are flying. Travelers all across the country are enduring crowded flights, annoying delays, lost luggage and puny bags of peanuts. But no region suffers the vicissitudes of air travel more than sparsely populated states like Nebraska, Wyoming, Montana and the Dakotas, where markets are too small to encourage competition.
The result is fewer choices and grueling layovers. A canceled shuttle flight between New York and Washington is one thing, but how about getting from Rock Springs in western Wyoming to Cheyenne, the state capital? The only way by air is a two-leg trip through Denver. A journey from Denver to Montana's state capital, Helena, requires taking a plane to Salt Lake City, then making a connection to Great Falls, Mont., that stops in Helena on its way back to Salt Lake City. The fastest way to fly from Omaha to Scottsbluff, on the western side of Nebraska, is to connect well beyond the state, in Denver.
"It's very, very worrisome," Gov. Mike Johanns of Nebraska said. Mr. Johanns and other Western governors say they are concerned that proposed mergers -- United with US Airways, American with Trans World Airlines -- could make the situation worse. The governors say mergers would reduce competition and increase prices, making it harder for small towns to attract service or expand the service they have.
In a recent resolution, the Western Governors Association, which includes the chief executives of 21 states, urged the Justice Department to study the impact of the mergers on small communities. The governors also asked the Federal Trade Commission to analyze the financial consequences of marketing agreements between large airlines and the smaller commuter airlines that serve as their partners, connecting to their hubs.
"Mergers, consolidations and decreased competition all threaten to isolate rural communities," said Gov. Dirk Kempthorne of Idaho, chairman of the association.
A spokesman for United, Andy Plews, said United would remain "committed to smaller communities" after a merger as essential to its hub-and-spoke system. The merged airline, he said, might even add commuter flights.
How much muscle the governors have remains to be seen, even with a White House led by a pair of Westerners. In recent years, bigger airlines have expanded their hub-and-spoke systems by adding partnerships with commuter lines like Great Lakes Aviation and Air Wisconsin that had developed a lucrative business serving smaller communities. 
But the new partnerships have driven other airlines out of the market. That has left many of the smaller cities with one carrier and high ticket prices. A study by the governors association found that flights to and from places like Cheyenne, Wyo., Pueblo, Colo., North Platte, Neb., and Watertown, S.D., have the highest ticket prices in the country.
Sleeter Dover, director of the Wyoming Department of Transportation, said, "One of the unintended consequences of the hub-and-spoke system is that it relegated rural communities to second-class status."
The governors have also urged Congress to maintain support of the Essential Air Service program, put into effect as part of airline deregulation in 1978. The program subsidizes airlines -- $50 million for the 2001 fiscal year -- to maintain flights to cities that had been served by at least one airline before deregulation.
"I'm all for deregulation," said Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House minority leader, who was waiting at Gate B-59 on Friday morning for a commuter flight to Montrose, Colo., and a weekend of skiing. "But there has to be enough regulation that it doesn't cut off lots of people from air service."
Gov. Jim Geringer of Wyoming, a leading campaigner for expanded Western airline service, said the limited service in his state had led to routes so circuitous or infrequent that travelers abandon the connecting leg and drive two hours or more to reach a hub-city airport. 
The problems are more acute for states straining to improve economic prospects through job creation. Cities that cannot rely on regular air service lose out. 
Mr. Geringer called airline service one of the "key ingredients to economic development." Conceding that Wyoming lacks adequate air service to diversify its economy, he said, "We need more flights and more predictability."
Mr. Johanns said the lack of direct air service between cities in eastern and western Nebraska had created a psychological divide. "I love to have people from all parts of the state appointed to boards and commissions," he said, "but when people from the western part of the state ask me how often they would have to meet and I tell them once a month, they say they can't do it."
Despite concerns over the mergers, several recent developments suggest that air service in some rural states might yet improve.
The greatest impact could come from a decision by Great Lakes Aviation, announced this week, to end its exclusive marketing arrangement with United in May and return to independent status. Serving 58 cities in 14 states, the company would still operate as a United connector but would also be one for Frontier, a six-year-old airline that is United's biggest competitor in Denver.
Dick Fontaine, a spokesman for Great Lakes, said the chief benefit for travelers would be a wider choice of flights out of connecting cities. 
In Nebraska, Westward Airways is trying to raise money to begin intrastate service on small turboprop planes that would connect Scottsbluff and Omaha and North Platte and Lincoln. For now, Scottsbluff and North Platte are connected only to Denver on Great Lakes.
A similar effort is under way in Wyoming, where 8 of the state's 10 commercial airports are connected only to Denver or Salt Lake City. That means it is almost impossible to fly from one Wyoming city to another on a commercial airliner without leaving the state.
Mark Sixel, an air transportation consultant in Eugene, Ore., said if more of the country's 97 regional airlines ended exclusive arrangements, the country would be better served. And, he said, mergers of the giants and their growing preference for jets to serve secondary markets might make more turboprops available to smaller cities.
To Mr. Osborne, this sounded like a wondrous future that could not happen soon enough. "I wouldn't say we feel like prisoners," he said. "We could always drive 190 miles to Jackson Hole, 250 miles to Billings or 320 miles to Salt Lake. But the object is to fly."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeff Welker, a professor at the University of Wyoming in Laramie, waiting for a connecting flight home at Denver International Airport. (Ernie Leyba for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); AIRLINES (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); AIR SERVICE (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); MERGERS (85%); POPULATION DENSITY (76%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (73%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; RURAL AREAS; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION) 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%); NATIONAL AUTOMOTIVE PARTS ASSOCIATIONS INC (NAPA) (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WYOMING (59%) JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; WESTERN GOVERNORS ASSN 

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (57%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (57%)

PERSON: MIKE JOHANNS (71%); DIRK KEMPTHORNE (50%) ;JANOFSKY, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: HELENA, MT, USA (93%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); CASPER, WY, USA (88%); CHEYENNE, WY, USA (79%); LARAMIE, WY, USA (79%); SCOTTSBLUFF, NE, USA (79%); OMAHA, NE, USA (76%) WYOMING, USA (95%); MONTANA, USA (95%); WEST USA (94%); NEBRASKA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) WESTERN STATES (US); NEBRASKA; WYOMING; MONTANA; NORTH DAKOTA; SOUTH DAKOTA

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



306 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
Let the Markets Rule, Sometimes

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
NO company in recent years has complained more loudly than Microsoft about Washington's regulatory power. From its perspective, the Justice Department's antitrust lawsuit, which threatens to split the company in two, is an example of that power run amok.
 No wonder then, that some senior government officials -- like the Federal Communications Commission member who is now the F.C.C.'s chairman, Michael K. Powell -- found it incongruous when, late last year, Microsoft and several other corporations demanded that the government either impose strict conditions on the proposed merger of America Online and Time Warner, or reject it. 
 Ultimately, the merger was approved, but not before the corporations got some of what they asked for. 
As the new Republican administration settles in, conventional wisdom holds that it will dramatically weaken Washington's regulatory grip. But as Microsoft demonstrates, there are broad areas of the marketplace in which the government will remain active, not least because of demands from American business itself.
The fact is that corporate America speaks with two voices. As a collective, it is reflexively hostile to what it sees as government interference. But individual corporations just as reflexively demand that government restrain their rivals. 
"Sometimes a highly regulated administration is helpful and sometimes it is not helpful," said Preston Padden, chief lobbyist for Disney, who has argued for more and for less regulation. "What I would really like is the Gore administration to be regulating my competitors and the Bush administration to be regulating me."
Even as the Bush administration begins to reverse the array of environmental, workplace and product-safety regulations adopted under Bill Clinton, experts say the changes in other areas, like antitrust policy, will be far less sweeping. "In every industry where there are strong corporate interests that benefit from the regulation of their rivals, you can throw deregulatory philosophy out the window," said Gene Kimmelman, a director of the Washington office of Consumers Union. 
Other consumer groups have raised alarms over remarks last week by Mr. Powell suggesting he might significantly reduce the regulations that have prevented the nation's largest broadcasters from getting bigger, blocked the biggest local telephone companies from expanding into long distance and prohibited the biggest wireless telephone companies from controlling a greater share of spectrum licenses.
Nonetheless, no one expects the broadcasters to stop trying to force cable operators to provide channels for both analog and digital television signals. Nor will Microsoft's rivals cease lobbying to have the court order splitting the company in two carried out. And long distance telephone companies are certain to keep working to delay the entrance of local phone companies into the lucrative long distance market.
IN fact, antitrust has for some time been an area notably free of ideological division. The Clinton administration approached many antitrust issues the same way the first Bush administration did, and both used the guidelines that were adopted in the 1980's by William Baxter, the top antitrust official at the Justice Department in the Reagan administration. Over the last eight years, officials allowed a record number of corporate mergers to be completed, imposing few obstacles to an overwhelming majority of them. 
The current amity came out of a fundamental rethinking of antitrust principles. A generation ago, policy makers were deeply divided between theorists at the University of Chicago, who thought the marketplace should decide whether a business deal was good or bad, and progressive liberals, who felt that the market needed to be restrained by regulation.
"ANTITRUST was an absolute ideological battleground 25 years ago," said Robert Pitofsky, the chairman of the Federal Trade Commission. "The Chicago school thought antitrust under the Warren court was out of control. The populists thought the Chicago approach was impractical. But over the last 20 years there has been a convergence of ideologies."
Mr. Pitofsky, whose term at the F.T.C. expires this summer, said that both sides have moved closer to the center as a result of important market insights.
"From the point of view of those who said, 'Do less,' there was a recognition that it doesn't work and that free markets don't want cartels," Mr. Pitofsky said. "From the point of view of those who said, 'Do more,' there was a recognition that some mergers produced important efficiencies" that benefited consumers.
As a result, he said, the F.T.C. held closely divided votes over just a handful of large mergers. 
To be sure, there are important differences in some areas of antitrust law. Economic advisers to President Bush have been critical, for instance, of predatory pricing cases. Experts say it would not be surprising if the Justice Department were to settle the upcoming trial against American Airlines, in which the air carrier is accused of lowering ticket prices at a steep financial loss in order to force out smaller rivals.
But in most areas, some holdovers from the Clinton administration are hopeful that changes in regulatory policy will be modest. 
Mr. Pitofsky cautions, however, that this is not a certainty. "It is a hope, as much as an expectation, that things will not dramatically change" he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael K. Powell, the new chairman of the F.C.C. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LOBBYING (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (84%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); LITIGATION (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); APPROVALS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (71%); MERGERS (70%); PRODUCT SAFETY (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); AOL INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (93%) JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; MICROSOFT CORP; FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION; AMERICA ONLINE INC; TIME WARNER CORP 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); AOL (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (71%) POWELL, MICHAEL K; LABATON, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



307 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Struggle to Find a Stance on Tax Cut 

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 10 

 BODY:
After years of confidence that Bill Clinton had ended the Democratic Party's vulnerability on fiscal issues, Congressional Democrats are once again on the defensive and searching for a tax-cutting plan of their own that will maintain party unity in the face of President Bush's tax-cutting juggernaut.
 With no president to speak for them, the two Democratic leaders, Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota and Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, have been struggling to balance several imperatives held by their rank and file. Their conservative wing wants to maintain the party's mantle of fiscal discipline. Liberals hope to keep tax-cutting fever in check so that there will be more money to spend on education, health care and an expansive new Medicare prescription drug benefit. 
 Yet at the same time, Democrats over all are desperate not to go in to the next election branded as the party that opposed a tax cut. Retreating rapidly, Democrats are already saying that their counterproposal will cut taxes by $700 billion or $800 billion over 10 years, a large step toward Mr. Bush's own proposal for a $1.6 trillion tax cut over 10 years. 
Even the party's liberal wing this week unveiled a plan to cut taxes by fully $900 billion over the next decade by giving every man, woman and child a $300 dividend each year regardless of income. Such an approach would be far less generous to the wealthy than Mr. Bush's proposal.
"It isn't every day that you hear a group of progressives pushing for tax cuts," Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, said wryly at the group's news conference this week.
While they write their plan, Democrats are looking at an array of other ideas, all intended to tilt their tax cuts heavily to low- and middle-income taxpayers. The measures include changing the lowest tax rate, which is 15 percent, or providing some kind of tax credit to offset Social Security payroll taxes.
They are also examining making tax cuts contingent on the size of the federal surplus.
The looming struggle on Capitol Hill will be one of the first tests of how Democrats will seek to define themselves in the post-Clinton era. 
Though Democrats insist they are for large tax cuts, they also express reluctance to overturn the fiscal policies that produced federal surpluses where before there were big deficits. They consider this one of their proudest legacies.
Representative David R. Obey, Democrat of Wisconsin, told Mr. Bush in his recent visit to a House Democratic retreat that the federal deficits of the 1980's were erased because his own father, the former President George Bush, agreed to a tax increase in 1990, which may have helped cost him re-election, and because Mr. Clinton and Democrats enacted another tax increase in 1993, with no Republican support.
The next year the Democrats lost control of the House to the Republicans. "We paid a heavy price for it but it was the responsible thing to do," Mr. Obey said.
But many Democrats are ready to drop some of the political tactics of the Clinton years, like the reliance on narrowly targeted tax cuts for social needs, to counter more sweeping Republican tax cuts.
House Democrats in particular have been pointing to former Vice President Al Gore's inability in the presidential campaign to counter effectively Mr. Bush's ridicule of the Gore proposals for nearly $500 billion in targeted tax cuts as absurd social engineering.
They are arguing -- to some opposition from some senators -- that the party needs to back a tax cut that is simpler and more understandable and widely available.
"I think there is strong support for something broad," Mr. Gephardt said.
Democratic pollsters have found that issues like health care, education and prescription drugs are still more popular than tax cuts and that Democrats are better off if they do not critique the Bush tax cut in isolation but try to have a more overarching debate about policy choices. 
"What's important for Democrats is that we have a tax debate that is part of a larger debate about budget priorities" said Geoffrey Garin, one of the pollsters. "The Bush administration is trying to rush this forward in a way that is divorced and abstracted from the rest of the budget. Our strategic imperative on the Democratic side is to bring the tax debate back to something that is more squarely argued in the context of the budget and budget priorities."
Partly for that reason, many Democrats are calling for a slow and thorough debate on tax cutting.
"We don't have a budget yet," said Senator Max Baucus of Montana, the senior Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee. "It makes no sense to pass tax cuts or lock in tax cuts without knowing what we are providing for other needs in America."
Party strategists, remembering how Hillary Rodham Clinton's quest for universal health care was initially popular before her plan was picked apart, also say that Mr. Bush's tax cut might become less popular over time if they can make the case that it tilts toward the wealthy and that its true cost could go as high as $2.3 trillion. 
But a big question is whether the public will listen if Democrats do not have a single dominating figure to make their argument.
"The challenge for us is that without the White House and a very effective communicator as president we're going to have to work doubly hard to get our message out," said Representative Martin T. Meehan, Democrat of Massachusetts.
Another challenge for Democrats is to hold party ranks. Mr. Bush may be able to push his plan through the narrowly divided Congress simply by demanding Republican unity. But some moderate Republicans say they, too, believe his tax cut is too high, which means Mr. Bush may have to win over some Democrats.
One Democrat has already broken away. Senator Zell Miller of Georgia surprised his colleagues by becoming a co-sponsor of Mr. Bush's tax cut. But so far he is the only party member to bolt.
Indeed, Democrats took a great deal of solace this week when Vice President Dick Cheney met with a coalition of conservative Democrats, who call themselves the Blue Dogs, and failed to win any enthusiasm for Mr. Bush's tax cut. 
"Our real concern is paying down the debt," said Representative Mike McIntyre, Democrat of North Carolina and a member of the faction.
That faction wants to devote half the non-Social Security surplus to debt reduction, a quarter to new spending and a quarter -- $600 billion to $700 billion -- to tax cutting.
Democratic leaders, looking for a middle ground appealing to all their members, appear to be leaning toward a plan to devote a third of the non-Social Security surplus to tax cuts in the $700 billion to $900 billion range, a third to new spending and a third to debt reduction.
The Democrats are still working on the composition of the tax cut from an array of ideas. Because many Americans pay more in Social Security payroll taxes than they do in income taxes, one idea under consideration is a tax credit for some of the payroll tax payments. Other Democrats want either to reduce the lowest tax rate, or else expand the tax bracket so that it covers more people who now fall into a higher bracket.
Centrist Democrats like Representative Ellen O. Tauscher of California and Senator Evan Bayh of Indiana want a tax cut that would be phased in and tied to the size of the federal surplus. If the surplus drops below a certain level at the end of the year, the next stage of the cut would be delayed.
"I embrace the president's call for a tax cut that will benefit every American because I believe in freedom," Mr. Bayh said in a speech this week as he became the chairman of the centrist Democratic Leadership Council. But he added: "Many of us do not want to go back to the days of deficits. We don't want to go back to the days of increasing the national debt upon the back of our children."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota explaining a Democratic tax cut plan in his office. He and other Democratic leaders are searching for a way to maintain party unity in the face of a Republican juggernaut. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) Chart: "SORTING IT OUT: The Bush Tax Cut, by Income LevelsCitizens for Tax Justice, a tax research group, calculated how the Bush tax proposal would affect taxes at different income levels. The top 20 percent of households is divided into three groups because the range of incomes of more than $64,900 is so large. FEDERAL TAXES AS A PERCENTAGE OF INCOME INCOME GROUP: Bottom 20%INCLUDING INCOMES OF: Less than $13,600CURRENT CODE (1999): 8.8%BUSH TAX CUT: 8.3%PERCENTAGE POINT DIFFERENCE+: -0.5 INCOME GROUP: Second 20%INCLUDING INCOMES OF: $13,600 to $24,400CURRENT CODE (1999): 15.2BUSH TAX CUT: 14.2PERCENTAGE POINT DIFFERENCE+: -1.0 INCOME GROUP: Middle 20%INCLUDING INCOMES OF: $24,400 to $39,300CURRENT CODE (1999): 19.9BUSH TAX CUT: 18.5PERCENTAGE POINT DIFFERENCE+: -1.5 INCOME GROUP: Fourth 20%INCLUDING INCOMES OF: $39,300 to $64,900CURRENT CODE (1999): 23.8BUSH TAX CUT: 22.0PERCENTAGE POINT DIFFERENCE+: -1.7 INCOME GROUP: Next 15%INCLUDING INCOMES OF: $64,900 to $130,000CURRENT CODE (1999): 26.9BUSH TAX CUT: 25.3PERCENTAGE POINT DIFFERENCE+: -1.7 INCOME GROUP: Next 4%INCLUDING INCOMES OF: $130,000 to $319,000CURRENT CODE (1999): 29.1BUSH TAX CUT: 27.9PERCENTAGE POINT DIFFERENCE+: -1.2 INCOME GROUP: Top 1%INCLUDING INCOMES OF: More than $319,000CURRENT CODE (1999): 37.1BUSH TAX CUT: 32.0PERCENTAGE POINT DIFFERENCE+: -5.0 INCOME GROUP: ALL HOUSEHOLDSCURRENT CODE (1999): 26.2BUSH TAX CUT: 24.1PERCENTAGE POINT DIFFERENCE+: -2.1 *When fully phased in, in 2010.+Based on unrounded numbers.Included are personal income taxes; Social Security and Medicare payroll taxes; corporate income tax apportioned by ownership of capital; estate and gift taxes; and federal excise taxes on items like gasoline and cigarettes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MEDICARE (88%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CONSERVATISM (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (74%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (68%); CORPORATE TAX (67%); PUBLIC DEBT (67%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (64%) TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); TOM DASCHLE (73%); JERROLD NADLER (58%); DAVE OBEY (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); MITCHELL, ALISON 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



308 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends; 
Will the Gipper Ever Get a Piece of the Rock?

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
AT the summit of presidential commemoration, there is, most would say, little room left at the inn. The Jefferson Memorial doesn't cry out for a statue of John Adams; the Lincoln Memorial would look peculiar with, say, Andrew Johnson brooding alongside the elbow of the Great Emancipator; and the Washington Monument, for all its majesty, doesn't even have George Washington in it.
 The heroic exception is Mount Rushmore, that Brobdingnagian cavalcade of commanders-in-chief dynamited and jackhammered out of the Black Hills of South Dakota. For 60 years, since before World War II, tourists have imagined how their own favorite chief executive (either themselves or an actual president) would look up there on the rock. 
 So it comes as no colossal surprise that on the occasion of Ronald Reagan's 90th birthday last week, his admirers have once again suggested that their hero's visage be added to the world's most famous slab of pegmatitic granite.
When every president leaves office, he has a coterie who would like to laud him on a stamp or carve him in stone, but what's unusual about the Reagan-on-Rushmore movement is that it is still around 13 years after he left office. What makes the idea so irresistible to Reagan admirers is that it gets Americans talking about the Gipper's legacy and, simultaneously, exasperates the more partisan Democrats.
The biggest supporter of Reagan-on-Rushmore is Grover G. Norquist, chairman of the Reagan Legacy Project and perhaps best known for persuading Congress in 1998 to rename Washington National Airport after the former president.
A new Rushmore face would take a similar act of Congress, and Mr. Norquist is spoiling for a fight soon. But, for now, he is pushing for a less uphill commemoration: putting Mr. Reagan on the $10 bill.
True, there's somebody already on the bill, Alexander Hamilton, the first secretary of the treasury and the most prominent author of the Federalist Papers. But Mr. Norquist reasons that Hamilton being a member of a defunct political party, his partisans are easier to defeat. On the other hand, Andrew Jackson, of the $20 bill, was a Democrat and Indian fighter.
What Mr. Norquist really looks forward to is embarrassing his opposite numbers. "Can you imagine," Mr. Norquist asked, "how petty those little partisan Democrats would look opposing a bill" honoring Reagan?
Maybe, but the last time the Gipper-in-Granite was tried in earnest, only two years ago, the proposal died an early political death. Matthew Salmon, a now-retired Republican congressman from Arizona and the biggest Congressional supporter of the plan, didn't even introduce a Mount Rushmore bill. Senator Tim Johnson, Democrat of South Dakota, had earlier reproached Representative Salmon for his appearance on NBC's "Today" show promoting the Rushmore plan.
Citing the structural instability of the monument in his home state, Senator Johnson wrote the congressman on Feb. 8, 1999, "As long as I am a Member of Congress, I will work to defeat any legislative effort to add President Reagan's face -- or any face -- to Mount Rushmore."
Senator Johnson relied, in part, on Douglas A. Blankenship, a geomechanics consultant in Rapid City, S.D. When work began on Mount Rushmore in 1927 during the Coolidge administration, Gutzon Borglum, the monument's sculptor, had wanted to carve Jefferson to the left of Washington, Mr. Blankenship said.
But Mr. Borglum found the rock there too veined with cracks, said Mr. Blankenship, so Jefferson was carved to Washington's right, where the ground was more stable. Indeed, Mr. Borglum had to peel away nearly a half-million tons of crumbly granite to get to the more solid granite beneath.
What's more, there is not enough room to carve another 60-foot-tall, 30-foot-wide presidential head on either side. "Politics aside, this is the most asinine thing I've ever heard of," Mr. Blankenship said. "Do they want to put another head on Michelangelo's 'David'?"
The National Park Service, the monument's government custodian, takes a strict preservationist approach. "We're not here just to add presidents," said James G. Popovich, acting superintendent of the Mount Rushmore National Memorial. "We're here to preserve Borglum's vision for future generations."
R. Emmett Tyrrell Jr., editor in chief of The American Spectator and the originator of Reagan-on-Rushmore, is amazed that people are still talking about the idea. When Mr. Reagan visited the Tyrrell home in July 1988, recalled Mr. Tyrrell, all he really wanted was to give the president a nice present near the end of his term -- an artist's fanciful rendering of the mount, with Reagan's face wedged next to Lincoln's.
The president, he said, simply chuckled a Reagan chuckle, pinched some nearby salt, and threw it over his shoulder, as if to ward away the hubris.

GRAPHIC: Location: The Black Hills in southwestern South Dakota, 20 miles west of Rapid City.Origin: Calvin Coolidge created the Mount Rushmore Commission in 1927 to build the monument, oversee its administration and provide maintenance of the sculpture.Construction period: 14 years, completed on Oct. 31, 1941.Cost: Nearly $1 million; 85 percent paid by the federal government.Creator: The American sculptor Gutzon Borglum, assisted by a work force of 400, including hard-rock miners, ranchers, hobos and unemployed laborers.Material: Pegmatitic granite.Presidents depicted: George Washington (symbolizing the nation's founding), Thomas Jefferson (expansion), Abraham Lincoln (preservation) and Theodore Roosevelt (development).Biggest nose: All the presidents are basically the same size. Each face is 60 feet in length, each nose 20 feet long and each eye 11 feet across. Each president is scaled to represent a human being who would stand 465 feet tall (nearly the size of the Washington Monument).Total visitors: 2,522,288 last year.Contenders: Cultural icons suggested by the public for inclusion: John Wayne, Elvis Presley, Mickey Mouse, John F. Kennedy, Martin Luther King, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Lou Rawls, Larry Bird, Dwight D. Eisenhower and William Henry Harrison (President No. 9). (Source: National Park Service, Mount Rushmore National Memorial)Photo: Carving Lincoln's head in 1938: his face is regarded by many as the most convincing likeness. (The New York Times) Chart: "Monument at a Glance"Location: The Black Hills in southwestern South Dakota, 20 miles west of Rapid City.Origin: Calvin Coolidge created the Mount Rushmore Commission in 1927 to build the monument, oversee its administration and provide maintenance of the sculpture.Construction period: 14 years, completed on Oct. 31, 1941.Cost: Nearly $1 million; 85 percent paid by the federal government.Creator: The American sculptor Gutzon Borglum, assisted by a work force of 400, including hard-rock miners, ranchers, hobos and unemployed laborers.Material: Pegmatitic granite.Presidents depicted: George Washington (symbolizing the nation's founding), Thomas Jefferson (expansion), Abraham Lincoln (preservation) and Theodore Roosevelt (development).Biggest nose: All the presidents are basically the same size. Each face is 60 feet in length, each nose 20 feet long and each eye 11 feet across. Each president is scaled to represent a human being who would stand 465 feet tall (nearly the size of the Washington Monument).Total visitors: 2,522,288 last year.Contenders: Cultural icons suggested by the public for inclusion: John Wayne, Elvis Presley, Mickey Mouse, John F. Kennedy, Martin Luther King, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Lou Rawls, Larry Bird, Dwight D. Eisenhower and William Henry Harrison (President No. 9). (Source: National Park Service, Mount Rushmore National Memorial)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WORLD WAR II (70%); AIRPORTS (69%); AIRLINES (63%) MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS; NATIONAL PARKS, MONUMENTS AND SEASHORES; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (84%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (92%); RONALD REAGAN (92%); TIM JOHNSON (57%) RAMIREZ, ANTHONY; NORQUIST, GROVER; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: RAPID CITY, SD, USA (92%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) MOUNT RUSHMORE (SD)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



309 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: Major Battle Looms Over Medicare 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 10 

 BODY:
How rough can the debate over health policy get? Ask the survivors of the last great effort to overhaul the Medicare program -- the National Bipartisan Commission on the Future of Medicare, which lasted 14 months before expiring in deadlock in March 1999.
 Senator Jay Rockefeller, Democrat of West Virginia, describes it as "a constant shootout at the O.K. Corral." 
 Deborah Steelman, Republican lobbyist on health care, Bush family ally and major broker on the commission, says: "We never got past the religious, ideological components, the belief systems. It's like the Middle East, abortion, civil war." 
Senator John B. Breaux, the Louisiana Democrat who headed the commission, says: "I don't think we need any more commissions. I suggested we need a commission on courage." 
Their experience is relevant -- and cautionary -- as Congressional Republicans and the Bush administration prepare for another effort to overhaul the 36-year-old government insurance program, which covers 39 million elderly and disabled Americans. 
Health policy became the Russian front for the Clinton administration in 1993-94, when it sought to create universal health insurance, and for the Gingrich-led Republicans in 1995-96, when they sought to extract $270 billion in savings from Medicare. In both cases, the parties ended up bogged down in ideological warfare, drained of political capital and dangerously exposed in the next election.
This time around, the Medicare debate will almost certainly become enmeshed in the broader fight over the surplus and President Bush's drive for a $1.6 trillion tax cut, which he rolled out this week. Democrats like nothing better than presenting themselves as the guardians of Medicare -- protecting its finances while adding a broad prescription drug benefit -- against Republicans bent on using the surplus for "tax cuts for the rich."
Still, in the face of that hard history, candidate Bush promised -- explicitly and repeatedly -- to overhaul Medicare and make it more like the private health care marketplace. And Republican Congressional leaders seem eager to see President Bush take some steps, at the very least, in that direction.
The basic concept that many Republicans, including Mr. Bush, have endorsed is the one proposed by the leaders of that bipartisan commission: a Medicare that provides beneficiaries with a fixed amount each year, which they can use to buy coverage from an array of competing private health plans, including health maintenance organizations, or from the traditional Medicare program. 
The reason this idea failed to advance, Mr. Bush argued last year, was that President Bill Clinton chose to play partisan politics and block it.
"This administration has been a roadblock to reform," Mr. Bush declared on the campaign trail last year. But the reality was more complicated. By the time Mr. Clinton assailed the commission's proposal, opposition to it was already intense on the commission itself.
Prominent Republicans say it will be different this time. Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, a Republican member of the commission, argues, "The thing that's changed, and why what's happening today is totally different, and we can predict success, is twofold -- presidential leadership that has made this a priority, and secondly, the driving force is prescription drugs." 
In other words, the immense political pressure to enact some kind of prescription drug benefit for Medicare can help push through the more complicated (and less popular) structural changes.
But Democratic members of the commission and outside analysts say that the same divisions that doomed the commission remain. Several of the Democrats on the commission saw the proposal as a backdoor effort to privatize a popular government program and throw millions of elderly Americans "onto the tender mercies of the H.M.O.'s," in the words of Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan and a member of the commission. And, they say, their fears were justified by the last few years, as H.M.O.'s dropped hundreds of thousands of elderly Americans, saying they could not make a profit under the current Medicare rules.
Even Mr. Breaux, one of Mr. Bush's Democratic friends and a man committed to restructuring Medicare, sounds grim about the task ahead. When asked if Mr. Bush understood the inherent difficulty of overhauling Medicare, Mr. Breaux replied, "I'm not sure anybody realizes how hard it is."
Such difficulties, of course, help explain why major health care changes are so often consigned to commissions and task forces. The last Medicare commission was created by law -- the 1997 Balanced Budget Act -- and it was essentially a way to push off some of the harder long-range questions about revenue and benefits to a panel of experts. Its mission was broad: Prepare Medicare for the onslaught of the 77 million baby boomers, beginning in 2010.
Before long, members said, the idea of creating a more efficient and competitive Medicare system took hold with the 8 Republicans on the 17-member commission and with 2 Democrats: Mr. Breaux, noted for his deal-making, and then-Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, a longtime maverick.
As Ms. Steelman noted, there was a strong consensus among many health policy experts at the time that a form of managed competition was the way to go. Medicare, after all, had been created in 1965 and its basic structure had changed little since; it remains a bastion of fee-for-service medicine, with the government acting as an old-style insurer, setting prices and reimbursing doctors and hospitals. Only about 15 percent of Medicare beneficiaries are in H.M.O.'s. 
But the working population has been overwhelmingly moved into H.M.O.'s and other forms of managed care, where there are more administrative controls on medical services, and, proponents argue, more innovation in benefits.
Quickly, other Congressional Democrats on the commission recalled, they realized a deal was cooking -- and not one to their liking. Representative Jim McDermott, a liberal Democrat of Washington and a physician, asserted, "It was wired from the start to move every senior into managed care, and they didn't want to look at anything beside that." 
It did not help that the commission was also looking at such controversial ideas as raising the eligibility age for Medicare.
An outside health expert said, "It became the classic division between the market people and the traditional Medicare people." The "market people" saw their proposal as a means of modernizing a creaky program, giving the elderly more choices in health plans and ultimately saving the government money. The defenders of traditional Medicare argued that forcing this competition with H.M.O.'s and other private plans would inexorably weaken the traditional program. 
The government-allotted premium would never keep pace with the cost of health care in the traditional program, the critics said, and as a result the elderly would gradually lose the basic entitlement to fee-for-service medicine that they now enjoy.
"It was really a backdoor voucher system," Mr. Rockefeller said. " 'Here's $5,000, go get yourself some health insurance. You got some extra problems? Sorry.' "
To make a formal recommendation, commission leaders needed 11 votes. That meant Mr. Breaux, Mr. Kerrey and the Republicans were one vote short. They quickly focused on two economists on the commission, both of them appointed by Mr. Clinton: Stuart Altman, a health expert and professor at Brandeis University, and Laura D'Andrea Tyson, the former chairwoman of Mr. Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers.
"There's no question that Laura and I, being economists, were not antagonistic to the more market oriented approaches," Mr. Altman said. 
Mr. Altman said the problem was the Republicans' unwillingness to devote more revenue to shoring up Medicare and their resistance to a broad new benefit to pay for prescription drugs. They never reached agreement, and Republicans assert it was because Mr. Clinton denounced the proposal just hours before the final meeting and held his people back. Mr. Altman asserts, "He never told us how to vote."
Now, two years later, the same issues are looming again.
Representative Bill Thomas, the California Republican who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee and a member of the Medicare commission, said he believed there was still a clear consensus for injecting more competition into the Medicare program. But Mr. Thomas added that he was not wedded to the commission's proposal. 
"We know what to do," he said. "It's a question of how you get there. And how you get there is a matter of priority and commitment and will."
But others, to put it mildly, question whether a consensus exists. 
Bruce C. Vladeck, who once ran the Medicare program, argued, "There's a consensus among the policy elite, the think-tank folks, the academics, but if you tried these ideas with the public, they'd think you were insane." He added, "If you listen to beneficiaries, it's not 'choice' they're asking for -- they want additional benefits."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John B. Breaux led the National Bipartisan Commission on the Future of Medicare. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); TAX LAW (88%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (83%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); HEALTH CARE (76%); POLITICS (76%); CIVIL WAR (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); BUDGETS (72%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); RELIGION (70%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (69%); TAX RELIEF (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (63%); DISABLED PERSONS (52%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MEDICARE; HEALTH INSURANCE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); LAW AND LEGISLATION; PRIVATIZATION; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; TAXATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (77%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); TONER, ROBIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2001 



310 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
The alphabet soup is simmering, so let's toss a consonant or two into the broth of business jargon. B2Q, anyone?

BYLINE:  By Barnaby J. Feder 

 BODY:
GENERATING jargon comes naturally to business. So no one should have been surprised when entrepreneurs, venture capitalists, Wall Street bankers and the other backers of the new economy embraced the zippy term "B2B" a few years ago to refer to Internet business between companies -- and "B2C" for online activities linking businesses to consumers.
 Jargon creep eventually produced "B2G," for Internet activities connecting businesses to government, and "B2E" for a business's internal, or intranet, connections to employees. Then, last year, with the crash of many Internet start-ups, Silicon Valley wags pitched in with "B2S" (back to school) and "B2M" (back to mom's). 
 If the B2 bestiary already seems crowded, don't underestimate the will of marketers, for whom the B2(pick a letter) build-on is only beginning. 
Take the recent suggestions from Lawson Software, a company in St. Paul, promoting the release of a product line called the lawson.insight 8 Series. The company's literature says the new software allows businesses to deliver their "solutions" over the Internet to anyone, anywhere, on any device. Lawson says the possibilities include "B2A" (business to job applicants) and "B2D" (business to decision makers). B2B can even become "B2X," Lawson says, "where X equals limitless possibilities."
So rather than let marketers prolong the torture, why not fill in the rest of the B2 alphabet and be done with it.
With A through E already spoken for, F could be either friends or foes, depending upon which group a company is most likely to encounter on the Web. Better make it friends, saving O for "B2O" -- business to opponents. 
Government has already accounted for G, but it probably makes sense to set aside "B2I" for the Internal Revenue Service -- or the inevitability of taxes. 
We skipped H. But that is obviously business to home -- an important category including elements of business to consumer and business to employee. "B2H" also has its own subset: business to home appliances, a market destined to expand as more stoves, refrigerators, heat pumps and air-conditioners are sold with electronic controls so the equipment can be turned on or off from the comfort and privacy of an Internet connection.
The marketers' favorite distinctions tend to be people-oriented, though. There are the rough cuts, like "B2M" (business to men) and "B2W" (business to women). There are life roles like "B2P" (business to parents) and age groupings like "B2S" (business to seniors) or "B2Y" (business to youth). Given the obsessions of our culture with youth, that last category probably could be subdivided into "B2K" for business to kids and "B2T" for business to teenagers.
"B2J" could be set aside for a sector with specialized security requirements: business to jail. This market could include felonious financiers and companies that rely on prison labor.
"B2L" calls to mind the unfortunate workers that crashing e-businesses have laid off. But "B2U" (business to unemployed) may be more to the point. Besides, it reserves L for a group that strives to make the new economy behave a lot like the old one: lawyers. And while we're at it, we may as well designate "B2R," or business to regulators, because without them there would not be nearly the need for all those B2L's.
Let's see, "B2N"? That's an easy one: business to neighborhood, for those moments when businesses that think globally want to act locally. Anything left? "B2V," business to voters, could be a growth market. "B2Z" could cover all the communication that inexplicably disappears into cyberspace, as in business to zilch.
As for "B2Q" -- maybe the marketers can figure something out. Or if anyone out there has Q ideas, please send them along: b2q@nytimes.com. We'll publish the most compelling. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); STARTUPS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TAX AUTHORITIES (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: LAWSON SOFTWARE INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2001 



311 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION REVIEW; 
How One Man's Pride Helped Inspire His People

BYLINE:  By JULIE SALAMON 

 BODY:
While the broadcast networks crow about their big ratings for "Survivor" and "Temptation Island," public television has been doing its duty admirably, celebrating Black History Month with serious programs about real struggles for survival. 
 Tonight "American Experience" on PBS offers a fascinating biography of Marcus Garvey, the quixotic proponent of black nationalism who acquired a huge following by 1920 but was almost forgotten when he died 20 years later. His philosophy would take hold again in the 1960's with the emergence of the new black separatist movement epitomized by Malcolm X. J. Edgar Hoover lived long enough to hound both of them. 
 (On Sunday at noon CUNY-TV, Channel 75 in New York, will rebroadcast a 1963 interview with Malcolm X on "The Open Mind.") 
"Marcus Garvey: Look for Me in the Whirlwind," presents a full-bodied portrait of a strange and complicated man with huge ambitions and flaws to match. Short and plump, with brooding eyes, Garvey was plain-spoken about his Napoleon complex; he even told the woman he loved that she was his Josephine. He also had a weakness for ornate uniforms. 
But the uniforms weren't mere foppery. They became the symbol of his Universal Negro Improvement Association and a visual metaphor for Garvey's central theme. "We have changed from the old cringing weakling and transformed into full-grown men demanding our portion as men," he said. 
The imagery was vital at a time when early movies portrayed blacks as heathens, cannibals tossing whites into pots for cooking. The documentary tells the story of a Garvey follower, a master carpenter from St. Kitts, who came to Harlem in 1910 and found himself barred from the all-white carpenters' union. He ended up working as a janitor, but when he put on his U.N.I.A. uniform, his pride was restored.
Garvey's Waterloo was his terrible business sense (disastrous when combined with his supreme self-confidence). While he understood that economic power was crucial to black self-determination, he confused his own charisma with financial acumen. He raised large sums from his supporters to start a shipping corporation and then lost everything through bad management and sabotage by Hoover's agents.
When Garvey began his improvement association in 1914, slavery was just a generation away. His own father was born a slave and felt compelled to teach his son resilience, but in a particularly cruel way. The father was a mason whose work included building tombs. When Marcus was a child, his father had the boy climb down into a grave and then pulled up the ladder, leaving him there alone in terrible fear. His mother, on the other hand, wanted to call her son Moses and instilled in him an epic sense of self. 
The documentary conveys the sensation of what being black meant to the proud, educated -- and yes, resilient -- Garvey. He became a journalist and a laborer, traveling through Central America where he saw black workers doing the crucial scut work but holding no power. His ambitions would become global. He wanted to be the leader of black peoples everywhere, though his base would eventually be Harlem.
He spread his message through his newspaper, The Negro World, which was also published in Spanish and French and was distributed in Africa and the Caribbean, where it was banned by white officials. As his popularity grew, he became the target of government hostility in many countries, including the United States. Liberal black leaders, proponents of integration, didn't like him either, considering him a dangerous and embarrassing fanatic, especially when he decided to meet with Ku Klux Klan leaders, whom he considered the real source of power in America.
He may have been a fanatic and outlandish, declaring himself the provisional president of Africa, though he never actually visited the continent. But his extremism touched a chord in a great many people who had been treated extremely badly. His refusal to compromise was ruinous but would prove inspirational to later generations who wouldn't find his essential message of self-determination and black pride to be outlandish at all.

NANTUCKET: ROCK OF CHANGES
PBS, tonight
(Channel 13, New York, at 10:30)
The public television black heritage celebration, being broadcast under the banner of "Umoja," a Swahili word for unity, presents an alternative vision of history, whose landmarks, verities and personalities barely appear in mainstream recollections.
Most Americans, for example, would probably place the country's first battles for school integration in the 1950's and 60's in the South. But the Garvey documentary is followed by "Nantucket: Rock of Changes," a 30-minute documentary about a group of Quakers who opposed slavery but still didn't want their children to mingle with blacks at school. Twenty years before the Civil War this battle was settled in court, and the Nantucket, Mass., schools were integrated.
This short film recalls the now-extinct African-American community on Nantucket, which prospered because the whaling industry, for its time, was an enlightened employer in racial matters. It's another buried chapter that was worth excavating.

AMERICAN EXPERIENCE
Marcus Garvey: Look for Me in the Whirlwind
PBS, tonight
(Channel 13 in New York at 9)

Stanley Nelson, producer and director; Marcia Smith, writer; Mark Samels, senior producer; Kysia Bostic and J. J. McGeehan, composers; Carl Lumbly, narrator. A Firelight/ Half Nelson Productions film for American Experience.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In 1914 Marcus Garvey founded a "Negro improvement" group. (Underwood & Underwood/Corbis) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (93%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); HISTORY (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); SLAVERY (68%) TELEVISION; REVIEWS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

TITLE: AMERICAN EXPERIENCE, THE (TV PROGRAM); ROCK OF CHANGES (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2001 



312 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
 Madison Avenue Cuts Back As Clients Pare Budgets
As concern grows about the slowing economy's effect on advertising, widespread layoffs are becoming commonplace on Madison Avenue for the first time since the mid-1990's.
 Just months after senior managers were bemoaning a labor shortage, agencies are suddenly reducing their work forces or not filling vacancies. The reason is clear: Clients are cutting budgets, considering budget cuts or, in the case of many dot-coms, stopping advertising altogether as they go out of business. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. Page C11. 

Schlumberger Seen in Talks for Sema
Schlumberger, the United States oil field services company that has begun branching out into technology, is in talks to buy Sema, a European information technology company, in a deal valued at about $5 billion. C2.

The Alphabet Soup of E-Commerce
Generating jargon comes naturally to business. So no one should have been surprised when entrepreneurs, venture capitalists, Wall Street bankers and the other backers of the new economy embraced the zippy term "B2B" a few years ago to refer to Internet business between companies -- and "B2C" for online activities linking businesses to consumers. Jargon creep eventually produced "B2G," for Internet activities connecting businesses to government, and "B2E" for a business's internal connections to employees. And don't underestimate the will of marketers, for whom the B2 connections are only beginning. New Economy. C4.

Ruling Expected on Napster Today
The fate of Napster, the online song-trading service, could be decided today when a federal appeals court rules on whether to temporarily shut it down. C8.

Credit Suisse Braces for Fallout
Officials at Credit Suisse First Boston are bracing for a backlash over plans to have former President Bill Clinton speak at a conference on media and entertainment in New York after customers of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter complained about an appearance by Mr. Clinton at a conference last week. C2.

A Baseball Article Casts a Spotlight
A report in The Wall Street Journal that said the New York Giants devised an elaborate scheme during the 1951 baseball season to steal pitch signals from opposing catchers has brought a crush of attention for Joshua Harris Prager, the reporter who wrote the article. He has received calls from several publishers and may soon go on leave to write a book. C9.

Freelance Photo an Issue at Paper
The day after his inauguration, President Bush sat for an official portrait, taken by a Los Angeles Times photographer, Paul Morse, who also took pictures of the president's dog, Spot. When word of this freelance work reached the managing editor of The Times, he deemed it a conflict of interest even though it had been approved by a lower-level editor. Mr. Morse later resigned and took a job at the White House. All newsroom employees at The Times have been asked to report their freelance work. C9.

Web Tax Effects Concern Charities
Charitable organizations worry that some Internet activities could cause trouble for them by attracting audits from the Internal Revenue Service and potentially threatening the groups' tax-exempt status. C4.

Web Merchants Find Value in Barter
Web merchants have failed in many cases because they have not mastered the subtler side of sales -- including how to order goods that customers want and in the right quantities, and how to bring buyers to the store. Now e-tailers looking to rid themselves of excess inventory are more frequently engaging in barter. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C8.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 10,781.45 down 82.65Nasdaq composite -- 2,470.97 down 189.5310-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.02% down 0.12The euro -- $0.9258 down 0.0090The dollar -- 117.67 yen up 1.86

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BASEBALL (89%); NEW ECONOMY (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); STOCK INDEXES (86%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (86%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (84%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); LABOR SHORTAGES (77%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); PRINT ADVERTISING (73%); APPROVALS (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (69%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (68%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (64%); WRITERS (64%); PHOTOGRAPHY (63%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (62%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%); APPEALS COURTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (51%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%); MS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (67%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2001 



313 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Serbs Offer Peace Plan in Attempt to End Albanian Rebellion 

BYLINE:  By CARLOTTA GALL 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, Feb. 10 

 BODY:
Hoping to end an ethnic Albanian insurgency that is gaining momentum along the border with Kosovo, Serbia's new government has put together a peace plan that rules out annexation or autonomy but would demilitarize the area and grant Albanians civil rights stripped away under Slobodan Milosevic.
 The plan has already received support from Western diplomats who know that the alternative is allowing the Serbs to use force against the insurgents -- the exact reverse of 1999, when NATO went to war for the Albanians against the Serbs over Kosovo. 
 "We have to give it a shot," said one Western diplomat of the Serbian government's latest plan. "But I don't know if it will really work. In the end, there is going to have to be some use of force on the Serbian side." 
Nebojsa Covic, vice president of Serbia's new democratic government and author of the plan, is traveling to Brussels this week to seek support from NATO officials. Mr. Covic is hoping that international pressure will coax Albanian political leaders, including those with ties to the armed rebels, into negotiations within days.
The Serbian government urgently needs to solve the spreading conflict in the region of southern Serbia known as the Presevo Valley, Mr. Covic said in an interview today.
Armed Albanians now control the three-mile wide buffer zone established along Serbia's boundary with Kosovo after the 1999 war and hold positions within a mile of the town of Bujanovac and Serbia's main highway to the south. 
Under an agreement reached with NATO to end the Kosovo war, only lightly armed Serbian police are allowed in the buffer zone. The NATO-led peacekeeping force in Kosovo is not permitted in the zone, and has found it impossible to seal the porous boundary with Kosovo to prevent arms and men from crossing.
Mr. Covic said the conflict threatens to spread further among the 100,000 ethnic Albanians in southern Serbia or even into neighboring Macedonia, where Albanians dominate the western regions.
Serbian police and the Yugoslav Army have been impatient to take action, he said, adding that the situation has lent political ammunition to Mr. Milosevic and nationalist opponents of the new government. "The government cannot afford to wrangle with this problem endlessly," Mr. Covic said. The population wants to see improvements in their living standards, not more war, he said, adding: "We do not have months for dialogue. We have days, maybe a few weeks."
His peace plan, which was approved unanimously last week by the governments of both Serbia and Yugoslavia, is an attempt to right the many injustices that the Albanians suffered under Mr. Milosevic. 
It rules out annexation or autonomy for the majority Albanian-populated areas, but offers ethnic Albanians full representation in government and police structures and the judiciary in their communities and representation in the Serbian government. The Albanian parties boycotted elections in December for the Serbian Parliament, and so have no parliamentary representation or representatives in government at the moment.
The plan outlines a phased demilitarization of the entire region, indicating a withdrawal of Yugoslav Army and police forces from the area, and introduction of joint police patrols consisting of one Albanian and one Serb. Mr. Covic said he would even consider unilateral withdrawal of Serbian forces, if "someone could guarantee that the Albanians will not take advantage of it."
His plan would also offer an amnesty for members of the rebel army, and economic development of the region with international aid.
Members of the rebel force, which is known as the Liberation Army of Presevo, Medvedja and Bujanovac, have rejected the plan, but not the idea of talks. 
Yet the real concern now is that the Albanians, in particular the rebel movement, will not sign up.
"There are at least three distinct groups with different views, and different factions within," an American diplomat said of the insurgents. "Whether they can come to a negotiated agreement I don't know."
Since they seized control of the buffer zone last November, the rebels have grown in numbers and stature. They are starting to receive substantial funds from Kosovo and from the Albanian diaspora allowing them to boost their numbers and their weapons supplies, according to one senior official in the NATO-led peacekeeping force in Kosovo.
Members of the Yugoslav Army complain that the Albanians have grown more full of themselves in the last months, a member of the European Union monitoring team in the area said. The longer the militants can operate freely in the no-man's land of the buffer zone, the more powerful and confident they will become, he said.
Mr. Covic said he did not doubt that the Albanians would negotiate, but his concern was whether they would agree to something now. "They might not do it now," he said. "We are approaching the moment when the international community will have to say it is enough."
Mr. Covic hopes to persuade NATO representatives also to allow the Serbs to gradually abolish the buffer zone.
His plan envisages demilitarization of the zone, village by village, with local police -- including Albanian police -- returning on patrol.
One of the real tests will be if Serbs from Kosovo can travel unhindered through the region. At the moment, they face checkpoints run by armed Albanians.
Mr. Covic is relying on the NATO-led peacekeepers, and in particular on the Americans, who have the greatest influence with the Albanians, to put pressure on them.
But those officials say that, in the end, if the Serbian authorities want to re-establish control, they may have to use force and make arrests. 
"The goal is to prevent the use of force," said the Western diplomat who discussed Mr. Covic's plan. "But if in the end this zone has to be normalized, normalized so that it is not in the control of people with weapons; if in a few months Serbs cannot go through, then that needs to come to an end. Then we have to see that the absolute minimum of force is used."
Mr. Covic, who has won respect from diplomats for his determination to find a peaceful solution, said the situation is coming to a head. "We have not exhausted every possibility to solve this peacefully," he said, "but the truth is also that the moment when we'll be forced to take that decision is approaching."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A group of Albanian insurgents rested yesterday within the buffer zone established after the 1999 Kosovo war in Serbia's Presevo Valley. (Agence France-Presse) Map of Serbia highlights Presevo Valley: Albanian rebels have stepped up activity in the Presevo Valley. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); PEACE PROCESS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLITICS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); APPROVALS (67%); LIVING STANDARDS (64%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: GALL, CARLOTTA; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%) SERBIA (99%); ALBANIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); KOSOVO (94%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (57%) SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2001 



314 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
Back on a Career Path After Finding a Home Base

BYLINE:  By AARON DONOVAN 

 BODY:
Eight years ago, when Larry Kinbar appeared in an article about The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, he had just moved into a housing facility for mentally ill men and women.
 Mr. Kinbar, who had been a stockbroker, had become severely depressed and had lost the will to work. Then, a doctor helped him even out his mood swings with medication, and Mr. Kinbar found an apartment in Metro House, where he could steady himself and look for a long-term job. 
 The residence on the Upper West Side is run by the Metropolitan New York Coordinating Council on Jewish Poverty. The council is a beneficiary agency of UJA-Federation of New York, one of the seven local charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
For the first time in years, Mr. Kinbar was optimistic about the future.
Now, three years after leaving Metro House, Mr. Kinbar, 51, lives in a one-bedroom apartment in Titusville, Fla., that has a view of the space shuttle launching pad at the Kennedy Space Center. He is pursuing a master's degree in economics at the University of Central Florida in Orlando and is hoping to become a stockbroker again.
He credits Metro House with getting him back on his feet. "It was a platform from which I could put things back together," he said recently. "After seven years of floating from one place to another, it gave me a place to stabilize."
Mr. Kinbar had been a stockbroker in Georgia and Florida until his depression set in.
"It hit me one day out of the clear blue sky -- I basically had not had depression before that," he said. "From that point forward, I just found it difficult to stay doing what I had been doing."
For seven years, he wandered the country, working short-term jobs as a gas station attendant, convenience store clerk and supermarket cashier, among others. "I took whatever jobs I could," he said. "I was always one day away from ending up in the street."
By the end of those seven years, all his belongings fit into a duffel bag. "I was fairly successful as a stockbroker," Mr. Kinbar said, "and to go from that to nothing made for an exceptionally difficult time."
Mr. Kinbar then moved in with a cousin in Rego Park, Queens.
In New York, he sought a doctor's care and began taking lithium to control his manic-depressive mood swings. "In one 24-hour period, it's like everything lifted off my shoulders," he said. "The difficulties which you incur with manic depression just disappeared."
He moved to the George Washington Hotel on Lexington Avenue in Manhattan and took meals at a nearby synagogue. But he was having trouble paying the rent. "I was close to having nowhere to go," he recalled.
Then, a social worker running the lunch program at the synagogue told him about Metro House.
Mr. Kinbar was one of the first people to move into the newly built center for people with mental illness in 1992 and lived there until 1998. He was provided with a room and meals, met once a week with a psychiatrist who made sure he was taking his anti-depressants and with social workers who made sure he received the proper government benefits.
Mr. Kinbar, who had graduated in 1974 from the University of Georgia with a bachelor's degree in accounting, got in touch with an old friend from college who helped him move into an apartment of his own.
He said he wanted to work as a broker again. "With my degrees," he said, "I hope to get back into constructive employment."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these
organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station, P.O. Box 4100, New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Donations may be made with a credit card online, courtesy of the Qpass digital commerce service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest. Online donors receive a free trial subscription to the crossword puzzle of The New York Times on the Web.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $7,556,326.54
Recorded Thursday: 44,479.00
Total: 7,600,805.54
Last year to date: 5,565,027.62

GRAPHIC: Photo: After leaving Metro House, a residence for mentally ill people, Larry Kinbar is getting a master's degree at the University of Central Florida. (Gregg Matthews for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (89%); DEPRESSION (89%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); CHARITIES (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); SPACECRAFT (67%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (65%); GAS STATIONS (62%); CONVENIENCE STORES (62%) NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL FLORIDA (82%); JOHN F KENNEDY SPACE CENTER (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

PERSON: DONOVAN, AARON; KINBAR, LARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2001 



315 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: The Mayoralty of Abraham Beame 

 BODY:
It was Abraham Beame's misfortune to have been elected mayor of New York City in 1973 at least in part because of his expertise on municipal finances and then become overwhelmed by the worst financial crisis in the city's history. Mr. Beame, who died Saturday at the age of 94, fought tenaciously to save the city from bankruptcy, cutting back services while striving to preserve New York's traditional approach to social welfare. But ultimately the city had to be bailed out by the state and federal governments. Mr. Beame paid a huge political price. He surrendered his budget powers to a state control board, and was defeated in the Democratic primary election in 1977. 
 As with John Lindsay, who was his predecessor at City Hall and who died in December, Mr. Beame got more than his share of blame for the city's problems. The fiscal crisis, after all, had been at least 15 years in the making as the city's economic base slowly collapsed, and the egregious budget gimmicks used to paper over gigantic deficits were not only condoned but encouraged by others, including a Republican governor, Nelson Rockefeller. Most important, the city's giant banks and investment houses had for years looked the other way as they profited greatly from the marketing of municipal bonds and notes, a fact they conveniently overlooked while lecturing Mr. Beame about fiscal rectitude. 
 Those who knew him best said Mr. Beame was bitter over the way the banks, the business community and old political allies like Gov. Hugh Carey deserted him at his moment of trial. In public, however, the mayor's old-world courtesy never deserted him. His toughest foes spoke of his integrity and graciousness. He presided in 1976 over such civic festivals as the Bicentennial and the Democratic convention. He himself personified one of the city's great traditions, having risen from the tenements of the Lower East Side up through the ranks of the municipal bureaucracy and the Democratic Party clubhouses. Indeed, when Mr. Beame tried unsuccessfully to defend the policy of free tuition at City University, he wanted the next generation of immigrants and the poor to have the same blessings he had as a hard-working and ambitious student at City College.
Mr. Beame was an honest and unpretentious public servant at a time when history demanded more than he, and perhaps most mayors, could bring to the job. He cut the budget, won concessions from the unions and pushed through a program of extraordinary austerity only to find that the markets, the state and the federal government felt more was needed. A quarter-century later, New York City is the better for the lessons learned painfully while Mr. Beame was mayor. The fiscal crisis could not have been solved without sacrifice shared by everyone -- the taxpayers, the municipal work force, the banks and politicians like Mr. Beame. The mayor faced these realities with grim acceptance and grace. In the process, he contributed greatly to what turned out to be a new understanding of the limits of government, the dangers of fiscal irresponsibility and New York City's capacity for self-renewal. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HISTORY (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); TUITION FEES (60%); GOVERNORS (58%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MAYORS 

PERSON: BEAME, ABRAHAM D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2001 



316 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-15

Fuel-Short Region in Russia Is Now Freezing in the Dark
One of the most mismanaged and corrupt of Russia's 89 regions is suffering a devastating fuel shortage for the fourth winter in a row, in a nation that boasts the largest coal reserve on earth. President Vladimir V. Putin has pledged to bring such wayward regions back under central control. The Primorsky Region may be his first major test. A1

Protest Against Ukraine Leader
Thousands of demonstrators marched through Kiev, the second such outpouring in a week, demanding the resignation of President Leonid D. Kuchma and calling for new presidential elections. Political parties have united in opposition over allegations of scandal. A8

Plan for Restive Kosovo Border
Serbia's new government, hoping to end an ethnic Albanian insurgency gaining momentum along the Kosovo border, has offered a peace plan that rules out annexation or autonomy but would demilitarize the area and grant Albanians civil rights stripped away under Slobodan Milosevic. A8

More Violence in Israel
The flare-up in Israeli-Palestinian violence that began after the election of Ariel Sharon as prime minister continued, with Palestinian gunmen firing toward an Israeli neighborhood and Israeli troops responding. Mr. Sharon stepped up negotiations to form a governing coalition. A14

Tension Mounts in Yucatan
In Yucatan, one of the last citadels of the old governing party that ran Mexico until Vicente Fox became president two months ago, Gov. Victor Cervera Pacheco is inciting crowds and talking of states' rights. The government, trying to restore democracy, is weighing the possibility of sending in federal police. A3

Dark Side of Thai Promises
Thailand's newly elected prime minister, Thaksin Shinawatra, promised rich and poor alike financial breaks during his campaign. Now, critics warn that his promises could drain the national treasury and that Thailand's economy could begin to slip backward again. A15

New Twist on Chinese Names
The younger generation of urban Chinese has incorporated the flexibility of Chinese naming conventions with stimulus from Western popular culture, choosing English names like Satan, Magic Johnson and Sky-walker to use with foreigners. A7

NATIONAL A16-21

Medical Industry Lobbies Against New Privacy Rules
The health care industry is lobbying the Bush administration to delay, change or kill the regulations, just weeks before far-reaching new rules to protect the privacy of people's medical records go into force. A1

Submarine Crew Debriefed
In parallel efforts to untangle the submarine accident off the coast of Hawaii, Navy and civilian investigators debriefed crew members and reviewed logs from the Navy submarine whose abrupt surfacing on Friday as part of a drill caused the sinking of a Japanese fishing vessel. A1

Wireless Auction Fracas
A nationwide auction of wireless airwave frequencies desperately needed by the largest telephone companies had a wrinkle: Many of the licenses were set aside for small companies. That led to bidding alliances between big and small. Now some losing bidders are preparing legal challenges to the auction results. A1

Voting by Touch Under Scrutiny
Riverside County, Calif., is the largest county in the nation to have converted entirely to touch-screen voting. As America searches for ways to avoid debacles like the one in Florida last year, elections officials are examining the touch-screen option, now under the microscope in this middle-class laboratory east of Los Angeles where the screens were used last week in a special election for a state assembly seat. A1

Election Strategy, in Hindsight
The commanders of one of the most contested presidential campaigns in history gathered for the first time in the same room and owned up to blunders which, had they been avoided, could have led to a tidier Election Day -- with George W. Bush or Al Gore as the victor -- instead of the 36-day, post-election standoff. A19

Legacy of Texas Tax Cuts
While President Bush is lobbying Congress to pass his $1.6 trillion tax cut proposal in Washington, lawmakers in his home state are struggling with budget problems that some critics are blaming on tax cuts Mr. Bush passed as governor. A16

Gauging Accuracy of Census
Census officials plan to announce on Wednesday their estimates of the proportion of the American population that was missed during the 2000 census, as well as the percentage counted twice, officials say. A17

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Calls for State Standards For Assisted Living Centers
Neither nursing homes nor retirement communities, assisted living centers are something in between, catering mostly to affluent people who need help with daily living. These centers are a growing industry in New York, but the state, unlike 29 others, does not regulate them in ways that could consistently protect residents from inadequate care and questionable business practices. In the meantime, lawsuits by family members and dozens of complaints to the State Health Department cite patients left to wander into the night or lie unattended with bedsores -- echoes of the criticisms leveled at nursing homes themselves. A1

Embassy Bombings Trial
Defense lawyers are to begin tomorrow to cross-examine the convicted terrorist Jamal Ahmed Al-Fadl, once an aide to Osama bin Laden, left, who the United States government believes was behind the bombings of American Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998. In testimony last week, Mr. Al-Fadl gave the jury an insider's look at Mr. bin Laden's world, recounting his justification for attacks against the United States, and his attempt to buy uranium, possibly to make a nuclear weapon. B1

Neediest Cases B3

FASHION B8

OBITUARIES B6-7

ARTS E1-8

Oscar's Other Tongues
A record 46 countries have entered films in the foreign-language category of the Oscars, building on a decadelong trend. There was a boom in the early 90's when newly formed countries in the former Soviet Union and Central Europe began to submit films, but there has also been a rise in the number of co-productions of developing countries in conjunction with film studios in Europe and elsewhere. The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences presents its Oscar nominees, including the five finalists for best foreign-language film, tomorrow in Los Angeles. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

An Emmy for Reality
Supporters of reality shows on television have won them their own category in the Emmy Awards. But they will not be celebrated at the grand award ceremony televised nationally on CBS. Instead, they will be shuffled to a less public ceremony for nonfiction programs. C1

Layoffs on Madison Avenue
Layoffs are becoming common on Madison Avenue for the first time since the mid-1990's as concern grows about the slowing economy's effect on advertising. C11

Schlumberger in Talks for Sema
Schlumberger, the United States oil field services company that has begun branching out into technology, is in talks to buy Sema, a European information technology company, in a deal valued at about $5 billion. C2

Concerned About Clinton
Officials at Credit Suisse First Boston are bracing for a backlash over plans to have former President Bill Clinton speak at a conference after customers of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter complained about an appearance by Mr. Clinton. C2

Court to Rule on Napster
The fate of the online song-trading service could be decided today when a federal court rules on whether to temporarily shut it down. C8

Tax Fears for Charities
Charitable organizations are concerned that some Internet activities could attract audits by the Internal Revenue Service and threaten their tax-exempt status. C4

Business Digest C1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-10

XFL Ratings Cut in Half
For its second Saturday night on NBC, the XFL's preliminary overnight rating plunged about 50 percent to a 5.1, from a 10.3 for its debut the previous weekend. Each point equals 675,000 households. D6

Davis Bump for U.S. Tennis
A loss to Switzerland has knocked the United States out of the Davis Cup in the first round for the first time since 1993. D5

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Meddling with the news; Mr. Card's dangerous memo; the mayoralty of Abraham Beame.

Columns: William Safire.

Bridge E6
Public Lives A16
Crossword E4
TV Listings E7
Metro Diary B2
Weather B5

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LOBBYING (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); COAL INDUSTRY (72%); NAVIES (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (69%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); SHOOTINGS (67%); ARMED FORCES (66%); HEALTH CARE (65%); MEDICAL RECORDS (65%); WIRELESS REGULATION (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (64%); NAVAL VESSELS (63%); AUCTIONS (61%); MARINE VESSELS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%) HAWAII, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ISRAEL (94%); SERBIA (93%); KOSOVO (92%); UKRAINE (92%); ALBANIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); THAILAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2001 



317 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Experts Support Settlement Of Auction House Lawsuit 

BYLINE:  By CAROL VOGEL and RALPH BLUMENTHAL 

 BODY:
Economics experts have endorsed a $512 million class action settlement by Christie's and Sotheby's, court papers filed late Friday showed. Their report is a major step toward final court approval of the antitrust lawsuit brought last year by more than 130,000 auction house customers who said they were cheated in a price-fixing scheme dating from 1992.
 The structure of the settlement, the experts concluded, would help stave off insolvency for both companies, especially the publicly held Sotheby's, which trades on the New York Stock Exchange. They calculated the chance of a default by Sotheby's over the next five years at 9.16 percent, a probability that would more than double if the company's bonds, now rated at junk status, were downgraded further. 
 The experts, hired by Judge Lewis A. Kaplan of Federal District Court in Manhattan, gave crucial backing to a provision that had been a sticking point: the distribution of part of the money in the form of discount certificates rather than cash. Class members can use the certificates against future sales fees, and the auction houses will have to pay out less cash initially.
But the experts -- Kenneth G. Elzinga, an economics professor at the University of Virginia, and Denise Neumann Martin of National Economic Research Associates Inc. in New York -- concluded that the $100 million in certificates -- $50 million from each company -- were not worth their face value and should be increased to up to $118 million. 
Late last month, under pressure from David Boies and Richard Drubel, the lawyers for the buyers and sellers, the auction houses agreed to increase the value of the coupons to $125 million and make them redeemable in cash after four years.
At the insistence of both auction houses, certain information, like the percentage of repeat sellers that make up the class, was stricken from public versions of the experts' report, which was obtained by The New York Times.
Commenting on the report last night, Matthew Weigman, a spokesman for Sotheby's, said, "We are very pleased that the report of the court-appointed financial experts strongly supports the certificate element of the settlement." Christie's has repeatedly declined to comment about the settlement and the investigation it grew out of.
For four years, the Justice Department's antitrust division has been investigating price-fixing and other collusive practices that raised costs to the auction houses' customers. 
In October, Sotheby's and its former chief executive and president, Diana D. Brooks, pleaded guilty to violating antitrust laws. Sotheby's was fined $45 million. Ms. Brooks has yet to be sentenced and has agreed to testify against Sotheby's former chairman and major stockholder, A. Alfred Taubman. 
Mr. Taubman, now the sole focus of the investigation, has denied any wrongdoing. But because Sotheby's professed collusion happened under his leadership, and in order to settle potential claims against him, he agreed to pay $156 million of the company's $256 million obligation. 
About a year ago, Christie's turned over crucial documents to the government in exchange for conditional amnesty from prosecution and does not have pay any criminal fines. 
The $512 million settlement was reached on Sept. 25, but on Dec. 13, Judge Kaplan ordered the experts to study the plan to issue certificates.
In their report to the judge, Professor Elzinga and Dr. Martin concluded that because 80 percent of the settlement would be in cash, and because the certificates would be acceptable to both companies and could be sold in a secondary market, they posed no anti-competitive risk and would not force people to be locked into buying at either Sotheby's or Christie's.
"The certificates constitute a large tail, but they are far from being the whole dog," they wrote.
In addition, the experts sought to evaluate the economic impact of the settlement on both houses. In the court documents, they wrote that the two houses, particularly Sotheby's, "may have a cash flow problem should they be required to pay the full amount ($512 million) upfront in cash, or were the case tried successfully to judgment." So, they said, the certificates were a useful remedy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); AUCTIONS (92%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (91%); LITIGATION (91%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); PRICE FIXING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (89%); CARTELS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (79%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (79%); TESTIMONY (78%); APPROVALS (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); LAWYERS (75%); SENTENCING (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%); RETAIL COUPONS (54%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%) ART; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; AUCTIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (92%); CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (85%); NATIONAL ECONOMIC RESEARCH ASSOCIATES INC (67%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%) CHRISTIE'S; SOTHEBY'S 

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (85%)

PERSON: A ALFRED TAUBMAN (58%) VOGEL, CAROL; BLUMENTHAL, RALPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2001 



318 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Treasury and Other Credit Offerings Planned During the Week 

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week included today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills.
 According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 4.91 percent and on the six-month issue, 4.72 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
TAXABLE
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Athena Neurosciences L.L.C., $500 million of seven-year notes, Baa2/BBB/---. Merrill Lynch & Co.
Freddie Mac, $1 billion of reopening debt securities. J. P. Morgan Securities; Merrill Lynch and Salomon Smith Barney.
Ingersoll-Rand, $500 million of two-year notes, A3/ A-/---. J. P. Morgan Securities and Salomon Smith Barney.
Noranda, $300 million of 10-year notes, Baa2/BBB/--. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Progress Energy Inc., $3 billion of debt securities, Baa1/BBB/---. Merrill Lynch and Salomon Smith Barney.
Reliant Energy Resources Corp., $450 million of debt securities in two parts: $300 million of notes due 2011 and $150 million of 15-year and 5-year remarketable notes due 2016. BancAmerica Securities and J. P. Morgan Securities.
(Source: MCM CorporateWatch)
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.

TAX-EXEMPT

TUESDAY
New Mexico, $62.6 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Union County, N.C., $56.7 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

WEDNESDAY
Anne Arundel County, Md., $57.6 million of debt securities. Competitive.

THURSDAY
West Virginia, $65 million of debt securities. Competitive.

ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Allegheny, Pa., Port Authority, $247 million of debt securities. Salomon Smith Barney.
Anchor Bay School District, Mich., $73.8 million of 2001 refunding bonds for Macomb and St. Clair Counties. A. G. Edwards & Sons.
Broward County, Fla., Resource, $331.9 million of refunding revenue bonds. Raymond James & Associates.
Buffalo, $84 million of general improvement bonds. Salomon Smith Barney.
Cook County, Ill., $375 million of obligation bonds. Lehman Brothers.
Detroit Metro Wayne County Airport, Midfield Hotel Terminal Project, $107.2 million of airport hotel revenue bonds. Siebert Brandford Shank & Co.
Lewisville, Tex., Independent School District, $82 million of debt securities. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, $314 million of debt securities. PaineWebber.
Maryland Health and Higher Educational Facilities Authority, $105 million of refunding revenue bonds. The Johns Hopkins University issue. Lehman Brothers.
New Mexico State Highway Commission, $198.8 million of senior subordinate lien tax-revenue highway bonds. Dain Rauscher Inc.
New York State, $250 million of general obligation bonds. Salomon Smith Barney.
Ohio, $200 million of general obligation highway bonds. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
Ohio Housing Finance Agency, $75 million of single-family mortgage revenue bonds. Lehman Brothers.
Palm Beach, Fla., School Board, $175 million of certificates of participation. Salomon Smith Barney.
Pennsylvania Economic Development, $110 million of debt securities for Amtrak. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
Raleigh-Durham, N.C., Development Authority, $150 million of revenue bonds. Salomon Smith Barney.
Round Rock, Tex., Independent School District, $77 million of debt securities. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT FINANCING (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TAX LAW (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); NEUROSCIENCE (70%); AIRPORT OPERATION (67%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (67%); PORT AUTHORITIES (67%); CITY GOVERNMENT (67%); AIRPORTS (64%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (85%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (70%); PROGRESS ENERGY INC (69%); RELIANT ENERGY RESOURCES CORP (68%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (66%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (66%); LOS ANGELES DEPARTMENT OF WATER & POWER (62%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (60%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (54%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (52%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (91%); CRW (FRA) (69%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (70%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (70%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (70%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (69%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (69%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (69%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (69%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (68%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (66%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (66%); SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (62%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2001 



319 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1905 words

HEADLINE: First Line of Defense; 
Chief Privacy Officers Forge Evolving Corporate Roles

BYLINE:  By JOHN SCHWARTZ 

 BODY:
Jules Polonetsky has the power of life and death. Over contracts, anyway.
 As the chief privacy officer of DoubleClick, the biggest Internet advertising company, Mr. Polonetsky has the authority to rip up contracts with companies that do not comply with DoubleClick's rules for protecting consumer privacy. In recent weeks, Mr. Polonetsky says, he has cut off a half-dozen clients whose sites did not meet DoubleClick's criteria, which include having a clear privacy page on the client's site and an easy way to opt out of data collection. 
 That is not a large percentage of the thousands of companies that DoubleClick does business with. In these shaky days of the Internet economy, though, it is remarkable that a company would turn away business. 
But DoubleClick, which distributes ads to consumers on thousands of Web sites, has taken a public beating from advocates for privacy rights, who contend that it tracks people's online wanderings too intrusively. The company has consistently denied that its policies violate consumer privacy; the Federal Trade Commission recently dropped an inquiry, but it still faces class action suits and lawsuits by state attorneys general. And so DoubleClick is redoubling its efforts to build a reputation as a company that protects privacy.
While DoubleClick's renewed emphasis on privacy may be the most noteworthy example, the company is far from alone in its mission.
Chief privacy officers like Mr. Polonetsky are increasingly common in the executive suite -- and not just at dot-coms. In recent months, C.P.O.'s, as they are called, have been appointed at companies like I.B.M., AT&T and Eastman Kodak. There are now at least 100 privacy chiefs in the United States, making $125,000 to $175,000 a year, according to Alan F. Westin, who runs a training program for chief privacy officers associated with his organization, Privacy and American Business. "Next year there will probably be 500 or 1,000," he predicted.
Harriet Pearson, the chief privacy officer of I.B.M., compares the current moment to the days before most companies realized they needed corporate officers to oversee environmental concerns. But those who have grown cynical watching business fads come and go -- remember the vice president for total quality management or the chief knowledge officer? -- can be forgiven for wondering whether the chief privacy officer is corporate America's executive flavor of the month.
But while Jason Catlett, founder of the privacy consulting firm Junkbusters, says that it is unrealistic to believe that the rise of the chief privacy officer will automatically lead to better privacy, many advocates for privacy rights say that the shift is real and permanent -- and that these new executives have a big job ahead.
"It's a significant development," says Marc Rotenberg, head of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, a policy group in Washington. Mr. Rotenberg, a frequent critic of business and government when privacy blunders occur, says, "This has become part of mainstream business culture."
Mary Culnan, a professor of management and information technology at Bentley College in Waltham, Mass., said that "the game has changed," and corporations have moved from a time of sensationalistic exposes of privacy flaws to trying to figure out how to use personal information responsibly and with customer consent. "It's not the sort of land mine blowing up any more," she said. 
There have been plenty of land mines to go around. Following are some examples:
*DoubleClick came under fierce criticism last year when it moved to to merge some of its consumer Web-surfing databases with those of a company it had acquired, Abacus Direct, that tracks consumers' mail-order catalog purchases. (DoubleClick has since dropped plans to merge the databases.)
*RealNetworks -- apologized to users and changed its data collection policies after a disclosure that the company's RealJukebox Internet music software captured data about listeners' musical selections. 
*Microsoft -- ran afoul of advocates for privacy rights when it included a personal identifier in the Windows 98 operating system that critics denounced as a name tag that could follow everyone through cyberspace. (The company later modified the registration program for the operating system so that it would no longer create the identifier.)
*U.S. Bancorp -- recently signed a $3 million settlement with Minnesota, after the company sold customer information to a direct-marketing company.
Although this kind of "crisis catching" is part of the responsibilities of any chief privacy officer, the job description can involve far more, Mr. Westin said. The list of duties is long, and it varies company to company.
But the major tasks include complying with the growing patchwork of local, state, federal and international laws and regulations that govern privacy. 
In the United States alone, financial institutions are sweating through the process of complying with the new Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which regulates the use of personal information by banks, securities firms and insurance companies.
New health privacy regulations issued in the final days of the Clinton administration require companies in insurance and health care to have privacy officials to oversee compliance.
Some of the current chief privacy officers will be working with lawmakers to help design privacy legislation, now that the topic has become a major issue in Congress. More than a dozen new bills have been introduced, and Representative Edward Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat, has predicted that privacy will become "the civil rights issue of the decade."
Mr. Westin said that dealing with the legislative effort "will be one of the really big tests to see if C.P.O.'s are really doing their job."
Companies court disaster by appointing a powerless chief privacy officer simply for appearance, says Lawrence A. Ponemon, who heads up privacy issues for PricewaterhouseCoopers and runs privacy audits that help corporations find the weaknesses in their own policies and practices. "I'd say the majority -- more than 50 percent of the companies that have established a chief privacy officer -- don't allocate ample resources to get the job done right," Mr. Ponemon said. "Therefore, it's an empty promise. If you don't have the resources, you can't get the job done." 
The privacy officers themselves describe their jobs as a work in progress. 
At DoubleClick, Mr. Polonetsky and his staff of five monitor every client's site to make sure that they satisfy DoubleClick's criteria. "Because we have this relationship with thousands of sites, we can pull these businesses to our standards," said Mr. Polonetsky, who has served as commissioner of New York City's Consumer Affairs Department. "One scandal raises concerns for all consumers about doing business online."
He declined to name the companies whose contracts he had canceled, saying only, "There's a tiny minority that doesn't seem to have gotten it -- yet."
Richard Purcell, the chief privacy officer for Microsoft, says that his work breaks down to three main areas: coming up with data policies for the company to follow; monitoring technology development so that every program the company creates enhances customer privacy; and informing and educating the company's employees. "I'd characterize them at about 80 percent each, which adds up to about 240 percent altogether," Mr. Purcell said with a laugh. 
He said the effort to "weave data protection services into the very fabric of the corporate culture" was paying off in recently announced features in the Microsoft Internet Explorer browser software program, which enable users to determine just how much information about themselves they will release to Web sites they visit. 
At companies for which privacy is the core business, the role of chief privacy officer is especially crucial. Stephanie Perrin served as a privacy regulator in Canada before being wooed to join Zero-Knowledge Systems, a company in Montreal that sells tools that help consumers wander the Internet under high-technology pseudonyms so that they leave no electronic traces. At a company like Zero-Knowledge, Ms. Perrin says, picking the chief privacy officer is a critical decision.
"Obviously, we're not going to just pick somebody from the legal department," she said.
Lawyers are good at making sure that a company complies with privacy laws, Ms. Perrin added, but being a chief privacy officer is a lot more than simply compliance.
"You have to have a fundamental commitment to -- dare I say it? -- morality," she said. "Privacy is not just good business. We are framing the information age, and it is important to take that job seriously. We really do look at privacy as a human right, and not just a luxury item for spoiled North Americans. We're talking about the global information infrastructure."
Chief privacy officers are not just for Internet companies. Any business that deals with consumers' information has to take the issues seriously, said Sally Cowan, who runs the privacy operations of American Express. 
"Privacy is not the new hot issue at American Express," she said. The company first formalized a set of privacy principles in 1991, and in 1998 was one of the first large companies to post privacy policies on its Web site.
That privacy orientation has led the company to introduce new services that protect consumers' identities when they buy items online using the American Express card. 
American Express, Professor Culnan said approvingly, "views privacy as a source of competitive advantage" -- the sort of thing that makes consumers choose one company over another.
Within a large company, the privacy chief's job requires no small amount of diplomacy. "There are tensions between the different parts of the business," said Ms. Pearson, the chief privacy officer at I.B.M. 
She said the issue of Web advertising had come up in discussions of a proposed online advertising campaign. The discussion focused on whether to go outside of Big Blue to hire a company that would actually deliver the ads to consumers. That is a controversial practice, because it means that consumer data is gathered and used by third parties, often without the Web visitors' knowledge or consent.
In a meeting, Ms. Pearson recalled, an I.B.M. marketing executive was adamant about needing the marketing alliance, saying, "I've got to do this -- I've got to have this campaign." But an executive from the public relations side of the company argued that the company could not afford the controversy, saying, "Reputation is everything."
A third participant in the meeting, Ms. Pearson said, warned that "this issue is exploding in Washington" and suggested that the company hold off on such advertising until the issue became more settled. Ultimately, I.B.M. decided not to pay other companies to distribute its ads.
But such internal debates may be mere prelude to a bigger battle, one certain to test the mettle of the new corps of privacy officers.
Get ready for the trial lawyers, said Mr. Westin, the privacy consultant, who noted that some three dozen companies had already been sued on privacy grounds by private lawyers or state attorneys general. Among were RealNetworks, Toys "R" Us and a number of major drug companies, all accused of violating consumers' privacy.
"There are a lot of trial firms," Mr. Westin said, "that see the next Learjet coming from privacy class action."

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times)(pg. C1); Jules Polonetsky, the chief privacy officer of DoubleClick, the Internet company, discusses issues with Mary Anne Liss, of the New York Internet Chamber of Commerce, and other members of a roundtable on privacy. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. C7) Chart: "Privacy Checklist"Alan F. Westin, a former Columbia University professor who is now a corporate consultant on privacy issues, recommends that a chief privacy officer's duties include the following: Set up a privacy committeeStudy and assess privacy risks of all operations involving personal dataDevelop a company privacy codeInteract with concerned regulators and consumers, and provide a contact point for consumersCreate and oversee employee privacy trainingMonitor privacy laws and regulations -- and the company's complianceConduct privacy reviews of all new products and Internet services 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE ADVERTISING (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INTERNET PRIVACY (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (90%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); LITIGATION (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); CLASS ACTIONS (66%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT (60%); QUALITY CONTROL (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRIVACY; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: DOUBLECLICK INC (98%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (55%) MICROSOFT CORP; DOUBLECLICK INC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: SCHWARTZ, JOHN; PURCELL, RICHARD; POLONETSKY, JULES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2001 



320 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
Garnett Offers His League a Lesson in Maturing and Adapting

BYLINE:  By HARVEY ARATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
I'VE always felt that college is the right way to do it, but you can't knock talent. You can't knock opportunity. If it's there, people will take it. And when a team picks a young player, it's a gamble. It's throwing the dice. That's life, but it's up to everyone to make the best of it."
 Who had what was this most sensible pro basketball take during an All-Star weekend that won't now be remembered for continuing criticism as much as for a thrilling Allen Iverson-led 111-110 Eastern Conference victory over the West? It was none other than Kevin Garnett, not long ago the poster child for everything turning wrong with the once glittering National Basketball Association. 
 I happened to be in Chicago for the 1995 news conference at which Garnett ignited the dreaded youth movement by announcing he was jumping from high school to the N.B.A. "Come on, ladies," he said, playing to his homeroom homeys on the prospect of big N.B.A. dollars. "Come on."
You couldn't help but wonder what was to become of that exceedingly gangly teen, but yesterday at the MCI Center, before his fourth All-Star Game and the league's 50th, he laughed and said: "I was young, but I was ready to listen and learn."
Here is what the N.B.A. and its many critics can learn from a six-year veteran who is not yet 25 and three years ago signed the league's richest contract that almost by itself forced a destructive player lockout:
Don't forget that these young men are individuals, not stereotypes to be herded into some idealized category of consensus. They need time, some more than others.
Kevin Garnett, who spent not a day at one of our institutions of higher tournament seeding, has nonetheless become a beacon of leadership for a Minnesota franchise that has endured multiple levels of misfortune. Through defections of companion stars, the death of a popular teammate and the league's heaviest hammer falling on the front office, Garnett has played on without complaint, leading the 32-18 Timberwolves into the break on an 11-game tear.
No one sought David Stern's opinion or anyone else's on this or many other positive player developments here this weekend, at least until the undersized East rallied from 21 points behind in the fourth quarter to win a sizzling late shootout featuring Iverson and Stephon Marbury against Kobe Bryant. Suddenly, everyone was smiling as if it were those sensational spectators, Magic and Michael, while Stern was handing the most valuable player trophy to Iverson, the tattooed, corn-rowed and loose-lipped rapper, and singing a decidedly upbeat tune.
"It shows that great players can be wrapped -- pardon the expression -- in very small packages," Stern said.
Here at my first All-Star Game since 1996, how strange it was to see Michael Jordan on the sideline, replaced on the All-Defensive Team by Stern. The most acclaimed league executive of the modern, moneyed era spent much of this gala weekend swatting away shots on NBC's "Meet the Press," ESPN's "Outside the Lines," a CNN town meeting and a dais with the players union director, Billy Hunter. Quality of the game? The behavior of players? The disappearance of fans?
Hold on, Bryant said after conceding the last shot (to Tim Duncan, not the injured Shaq) when his fingers were practically on fire. "If we go out and just play hard, I think fans are going to start to enjoy it a little more," he said.
Much of the N.B.A.-bashing began on cue, when Jordan was no longer around to clean up the mess at the end of the season, as he did for most of the 1990's. But what was reinforced this weekend is that the league does have many excellent young players, albeit spread across too many teams.
"It's a younger league than it's ever been and these players lack maturity," Elvin Hayes said after Saturday's game between the rookies and second-year players. Hayes went on to say that while he has been critical of these players from afar, he was delighted with the likes of Wally Szczerbiak, Shawn Marion and Elton Brand after having had the opportunity to coach them. But it was his "maturity" comment that was repeated to Stern, who responded, sarcastically: "He's always been an optimist and appraiser of the young players who came after him."
Moment by moment, it has been difficult for even Stern to distinguish between perception and reality, problems and solutions. The formation of a developmental league next fall is a great first step toward tackling the age issue, but it won't be enough unless the union agrees to allow teams to farm out young draftees who need experience outside of a pressurized N.B.A. city.
They all can't be early risers to All-Star status, like Bryant and Garnett. Beneath the stars, back in the reality of the regular season, this sport needs a stronger foundation of supporting talent. It needs to be less in love with its luxury-box lifestyle. Shrinking retirement account statements show up monthly in mailboxes across the country. Basketball tickets cost far too much for the average fan, and even corporate America will soon take a hard look at its disposable revenue in a slowing economy. 
Yet Stern and Hunter can't wait to boast of billions, of revenue projections going up, up and up.
"More sponsors next year than ever," Stern said.
Hunter put the players' take at "1.6 billion to 1.8."
It's a language America doesn't want to hear. Times change and objectives have to be modified to accommodate the day. Once, Kevin Garnett believed he and Marbury were going to win big together in Minnesota. Garnett doesn't really have a championship cast behind him, especially in the deep, deep West, but don't accuse him of being in denial. 
"Eleven in a row and we're still sixth," he said. He'll make the best of it, roll the dice. The sky isn't falling on him or his sport. The ceiling just isn't as high as it was for Jordan, though the young All-Stars raised the roof here last night, and maybe, just maybe, they can build on that.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kevin Garnett offered straight shooting through the All-Star Game weekend. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); TOURNAMENTS (65%); LOCKOUTS (50%) BASKETBALL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (SPORTS) 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES (59%) MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES 

INDUSTRY:  SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS; 

PERSON: KEVIN GARNETT (91%); KOBE BRYANT (57%) ARATON, HARVEY; GARNETT, KEVIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (52%) MINNESOTA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2001 



321 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1789 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA; 
Talk Is Still Waiting to Catch Fire

BYLINE:  By ALEX KUCZYNSKI 

 BODY:
Last week, as Tina Brown discussed the challenges she faced starting Talk magazine and its parent company, Talk Media, she related a tale about David Geffen, the DreamWorks SKG executive, reading an article about Geffen Records.
 "And he comes across a line in the story that reads, 'What is the difference between Geffen Records and the Titanic?' " Ms. Brown said in the new Talk Media offices, a former piano factory in the Chelsea district of Manhattan. 
 She paused a beat before delivering the crushing punch line: " 'The Titanic had better bands.' He tells that story and says, 'Unless you've got the hide for that kind of criticism, then don't play.' " She looked encouragingly across the room at the president of Talk Media, Ronald A. Galotti, and said, "And I knew I needed a partner that had that hide. Right, Ron?" 
Mr. Galotti smiled and said, "Yeah, baby." 
Both Ms. Brown and Mr. Galotti talk a tough, enthusiastic game about Talk magazine, a highly visible part of their Talk Media venture. Its book division, Talk Miramax Books, has been generating the lion's share of the buzz recently. In rapid succession in recent weeks, the book division signed deals with David Boies, the government's lawyer in its antitrust case against Microsoft; Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani; and, late last week, with the former secretary of state, Madeleine K. Albright.
The shrewdness of those investments will not be known for several years. Meanwhile, indications are that Talk magazine -- published in partnership with Miramax Films and Hearst Magazines -- is having a difficult start.
The magazine is finally starting to attract some attention, with investigative articles in the March issue about Calvin Klein and in the February issue on Shelby Bryan, a telecommunications executive. But that may not be enough to make serious inroads in the increasingly fickle magazine industry.
Last month, the first audited report on the magazine's circulation showed that Talk's newsstand sales were well below Mr. Galotti's initial projections. And an independent consultant reported that the sell-through rate on the newsstand -- the percentage of copies shipped to newsstands that actually sell -- is at the bottom of the industry. At the same time, advertising pages and revenue are down quite a bit from the comparable periods of late 1999 to late 2000, as estimated by the Publishers Information Bureau.
Of course, Talk is an exceptional magazine in several ways. It suffered from a case of high expectations when its first issue arrived in the summer of 1999. Ms. Brown, Talk's editor in chief, had edited The New Yorker with much fanfare and in what Ms. Brown described as "an environment of skepticism and intellectual hostility." And Mr. Galotti was the well-known, hard-charging publisher of Vogue.
Talk faced challenges other than the visibility of its founders. Ms. Brown and Mr. Galotti came up with the notion for the general-interest magazine in mid-1998, long before the magazine industry entered its own version of recession. In 1998, there were 60 wholesalers routing magazines to most of the nation's newsstands; now there are just four, which wield increased leverage over magazines struggling to get into consumers' hands. The advertising market was expanding. And Publishers Clearing House and American Family Publishers, the generators of large numbers of subscriptions, had yet to cave under the weight of lawsuits brought by several states.
The numbers for Talk reflect, in part, that chilly environment. A report by the Audit Bureau of Circulations last month showed that newsstand sales averaged 150,674 copies an issue for the period from February to April 2000. The rate base, or level of circulation promised to advertisers, is 500,000, the report said. In 1999, though, Mr. Galotti had predicted average newsstand sales of 247,000 by the spring of 2000 and a total rate base of 650,000.
In response, Mr. Galotti said he had already raised the rate base to 600,000 for the next audit report in six months. "We are pretty thrilled with how fast we are cooking now," he said.
The low newsstand numbers should be a cause for concern, some experts say. John Harrington, a magazine analyst, said that newsstand sales should be higher, even in the fledgling year. "More copies ought to be getting into consumers' hands," he said.
Mr. Galotti retorted that he outsells several magazines, including Esquire, Entertainment Weekly and Conde Nast Traveler, on the newsstand. (It is worth noting that those magazines depend far more on subscriptions for their overall circulations.)
The newsstand is a problem for another reason. The magazine's sell-through rates are "horrible, horrible," said E. Daniel Capell, the editor of Capell's Circulation Report and a consultant to the magazine industry. According to a filing in Talk's December-January 2000-2001 issue, the magazine's average newsstand sale for the previous year (ending in October 2000) was 150,164, and the number of copies returned on average was 645,901. That means the magazine sold just 18 percent of the copies sent to newsstands, Mr. Capell said.
"They cannot survive with that low sell-through on the newsstand," Mr. Capell said. The average newsstand sell-through numbers for consumer magazines in 2000 was around 37 percent, Mr. Capell said. The percentage of sell-through is important to the chain stores that stock magazines; if a magazine is not moving from the shelves, the chain will order fewer copies and display them in less friendly real estate. 
Mr. Harrington said that kind of strategy -- high newsstand visibility despite low sell-through -- signaled desperation. But Mr. Galotti said he is just being aggressive. "We are willing to invest in the marketing of this magazine," he said. "The sell-through is an absolute concrete attempt to build this brand and we consider it an investment in brand-building." 
Cathleen P. Black, the chief executive of Hearst Magazines, said that the low sell-through was caused by wholesaler consolidation. "All magazines are having a tough time on the newsstand this year," she said. 
Although magazine advertising in general is believed to have slowed in recent months, the picture for Talk has been even less rosy. The December-January issue -- the last for which figures are available from the Publishers Information Bureau -- shows a sharp decrease in the year-by-year comparison. The December-January issue ran 58.3 pages, a 51.2 percent decrease from the 119.5 pages in the 1999 issue.
For the four issues published in 1999, the total number of advertising pages reached 466.8, according to the Bureau, with estimated ad revenue of $20.6 million. 
But in the 10 issues published in 2000, the total number of advertising pages was not much more, with 617.9 pages and ad revenue of $26.1 million.
Mr. Galotti said this April's issue will be the magazine's largest since its introduction and will have more than 100 pages of advertising. He added that for the three issues of February, March and April of this year, advertising pages will be up 36 percent next to the same three issues a year ago.
Editorially, the magazine is a mix of both raw and refined sensibilities, covering in the March issue an array of subjects, some dry, some steamy. There is an oral history of the election as well as a naughty fashion spread inspired by the Kama Sutra, and a feature reporting that infants are this season's fashion accessory, like pashmina.
Advertising executives have had mixed reactions. David Verklin, the chief executive of Carat North America, a media services company, said he was optimistic. "I personally like editorially where the magazine is moving," he said. "I think Tina is beginning to hit a zone."
Gene DeWitt, chief executive of Optimedia International U.S., an advertising services agency in New York, disagreed. "I would have hoped that the magazine's editorial voice would have coalesced around a core point of view by now," he said. "I am not sure the world cares about this magazine." He added, "This is certainly not the phenomenal roaring success that Ron Galotti flacked all over the world." 
But Mr. Galotti said: "Advertisers are now realizing that this editorial product is doing exactly what we set out to do. Talk is a smart effective buy for advertisers."
Talk has had to make its name on a budget approved in part by Hearst Magazines, which is not known for lavish editorial spending. Ms. Brown said that navigating the bottom-line mentality at Hearst Magazines has been a learning experience. "It is a good discipline to have a budget," she said. "Here we have devised our business plan, and we adhere to it. And we have enough to do what we need to do. Of course, it is easier to overspend."
Ms. Brown said that sometimes the bottom line does not allow her to get every article or writer she wants. "Inevitably, when our competition is interested in something they come and offer three times the amount, and they win out because we do not choose to go there," she said. "That's O.K."
When Ms. Brown speaks of the last 18 months, her language turns toward the mythic. "We have been through the fire and the phoenix has risen," she said.
"For us this is an exciting moment," she said. "This is the moment everything is starting to explode and break out."
She emphasized that Hearst Magazines had agreed to be a partner in producing Talk magazine for five years from the first issue in September 1999. "In 10 years, in 20 years, we will be here, and we will be a strong brand," Ms. Brown said. 
But how patient will Hearst be? Ms. Black, the Hearst executive, would not comment on the length of the contract or if Hearst Magazines had included a clause allowing it to pull out of the partnership. 
"When it launched, it was a fabulous launch, and then it went through some tough times, but it is now getting the kind of attention it deserves," Ms. Black said.
Frank A. Bennack Jr., president and chief executive of the Hearst Corporation, said in a statement that he believes strongly in Ms. Brown and added: "We have a long experience in start-up properties, and we intend to carry out our original intention to do everything we know how to do to make Talk a success."
Is the new attention enough to sustain the magazine? "I can't tell you what I don't know," Ms. Black said.
Another key player, of course, is a co-founder of Talk Media, Harvey Weinstein, the co-chairman of Miramax Films, who, speaking on a cellular phone from Rome, sounded a more energetic note. 
"The success of this whole venture just blows my mind," he said. "There is tremendous buzz on the magazine and tremendous buzz on the company. Every month is surprising and exciting. We're going to find our way. No. We have found our way already."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Newsstand sales of Talk magazine have been sharply below its own expectations. Advertising and revenue in 2000 were slightly ahead of 1999. (Steve Hart for The New York Times)(pg. C1); A feature calling babies this season's pashmina ran in a recent issue, including an oral history of the election, and a fashion spread inspired by the Kama Sutra. (pg. C9) Chart: "More Shipped Than Sold"Talk magazine ranks behind many comparable magazines, in terms of the percentage of copies shipped to newsstands that are actually sold. (Data for Oct. 1999 - Oct. 2000.) In Style: 64.7People: 54.5Vanity Fair: 45.6Vogue: 42.1The New Yorker: 39.9GQ: 39.4New York: 35.1Esquire: 31.0Rolling Stone: 28.0Us: 23.9Talk: 18.0(Source: Capell Circulation Report)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARENT COMPANIES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); BOOK PUBLISHING (87%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (87%); NEWSSTANDS (86%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MAMMALS (72%); PRINT ADVERTISING (69%); LAWYERS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (62%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (56%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%) MAGAZINES; ADVERTISING; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (91%); HEARST CORP (82%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); PUBLISHERS INFORMATION BUREAU (51%)

ORGANIZATION: TALK (MAGAZINE); TALK MEDIA 

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (91%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (91%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (82%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: DAVID GEFFEN (77%); RUDY GIULIANI (55%) KUCZYNSKI, ALEX; BROWN, TINA; GALOTTI, RONALD A 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2001 



322 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: New Political Field Challenges Labor Leaders 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
The nation's labor leaders gathering in Los Angeles tomorrow for the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s winter meeting will devote much of their time to trying to figure out how to respond to the change in the political winds in Washington that has put them on the defensive.
 Labor unions bet heavily on former Vice President Al Gore in the presidential race. And now President Bush and a Republican-led Congress are moving quickly to undo labor-backed measures adopted in the Clinton years. Already, for instance, the Bush administration has suspended regulations, adopted by President Bill Clinton and eagerly sought by labor, that would forbid awarding federal contracts to companies that violate labor laws. 
 "Obviously the election of Bush creates a significant negative environment for unions," said Richard Hurd, a labor relations professor at Cornell University. "They put a tremendous amount of effort into the Gore campaign, and they were probably more effective than they've ever been politically. But now the labor movement could get punished for that. Their effectiveness raised their visibility and the ire of their political opponents."
Despite the political reversals, union leaders say they will take the offensive on many issues, like a higher minimum wage. And many union officials insist that labor is stronger now than five years ago, when the movement often seemed voiceless and toothless.
But Mr. Gore's loss was not the only recent setback. After unions boasted that they had reversed a decades-long decline in membership, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported last month that just 13.5 percent of the work force belonged to unions, the smallest percentage in six decades and down from a peak of 35 percent in the 1950's.
The economic slowdown is expected to make it harder for unions to reverse the decline, partly because corporations facing lower demand for their products often shut down their unionized operations first.
In addition, unions have made little headway in their efforts to organize high-tech workers. The Communications Workers of America tried for more than a year to unionize 400 customer service representatives at Amazon.com in Seattle. Not only did that effort fail, but Amazon announced two weeks ago that it was laying off most of those workers.
"In a lot of ways labor's up against it," said Patrick J. Cleary, vice president for human resources policy at the National Association of Manufacturers. "You look at where the growth is in this country in terms of jobs and in terms of population, it's in industries like finance and high-tech and in geographical regions like the South, where labor has been historically weak."
But union leaders insist that they are not going to play defense. They promise to press Congress for a higher minimum wage, a patients' bill of rights and a Medicare benefit for prescription drugs. And they plan to lobby state legislatures to extend health coverage to more uninsured families.
"'Our two biggest priorities," said Denise Mitchell, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s communications director, "will be staying focused on organizing, because long-term growth is essential for us, and moving a proactive legislative agenda."
Despite Mr. Bush's victory and the decline in union membership, officials of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. argue that the labor movement's power is waxing, not waning.
They cite its major role in November's election, asserting that without labor's support for Mr. Gore, Mr. Bush would have won easily and that Mr. Gore would have lost crucial swing states, including Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Michigan. They also point to surveys showing that 26 percent of voters came from union households.
"The labor movement is in much better shape than it was five years ago in terms of political action, doing more organizing, and mobilizing activists," Ms. Mitchell said. "We did a terrific job in the elections in state after state, and we plan to build on that."
But Republicans have something else in mind. Urged on by many Republicans in Congress, Mr. Bush has repeatedly said he will back legislation that would make it far easier for union members to stop paying the part of their dues that goes to political activities. Such legislation could badly deplete labor's campaign coffers.
"It's important that rank-and-file union members have control over where their money goes when it's not used for union activities," said Representative John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, who is chairman of the House Committee on Education and the Work Force.
Mr. Bush is also drafting rules to reverse a labor-backed Clinton policy that often gave unionized firms priority on federally financed construction projects. And the Republicans say they will push for legislation, opposed by labor, to require overtime pay only for work exceeding 80 hours in two weeks instead of 40 hours in a week.
"Beating back these continued small-scale anti-union initiatives is going to occupy a lot of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s time and energy," said Robert B. Reich, a former secretary of labor.
But labor leaders say they are confident that they have enough Republican allies in Congress to block major anti-union initiatives.
Asserting that labor's most important long-term goal is to increase its ranks, John J. Sweeney, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president, is prodding the organization's 66 unions to organize a million workers a year. That compares with fewer than 400,000 last year and fewer than 100,000 in 1995, the year Mr. Sweeney became the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president.
There is a growing sense among union leaders that the fate of the labor movement depends on them, and not on who controls the White House or Congress. 
"I don't think there's any question we don't have enough workers," said Andrew L. Stern, president of Service Employees International Union, the nation's fastest-growing union. "The organizing numbers from last year say we have to accelerate what's a very difficult process or else our ability to improve the lives of our members and working families is going to be very limited." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); HUMAN RESOURCES (74%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (71%); LABOR FORCE (70%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (69%); MEDICARE (69%); CONTRACT AWARDS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (66%); STATISTICS (64%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (54%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (84%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (52%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (52%)

PERSON: AL GORE (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL; GORE, AL; GREENHOUSE, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2001 



323 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Essay; 
Sharon The Unifier

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
"The Israeli nation needs unity," said Prime Minister-elect Ariel Sharon, continuing our phone conversation, "to try to overcome all the hatred and the unbelievable splits. Arguments have always been part of political life here, but never as bad as this.
 "It's not only that the parties are splintered between each other," the last of the warrior-patriarchs went on, "but now they are splintered from inside. The good thing is that I can talk to all of them." 
 His job is not merely to cobble together a national-unity government with a majority in the Knesset. (Natan Sharansky as foreign minister? The slot may not be open.) Sharon's harder task, after the exposure of the Oslo fraud, is to forge a sense of unity and purpose among Jewish and Arab Israelis at home and among Israel supporters abroad.
The Labor Party, his first choice for coalition partner, is a prime example of splinter stress. The appeasement scales seem to have fallen from the eyes of Shimon Peres after last month's public humiliation by Yasir Arafat at Davos. If the arch-appeaser Yossi Beilin marches his discredited faction off to the ultra-left, that's one internal split to be desired. It would permit the saddened center of Labor to join a government of national realism. 
Will Sharon, to attract the eyes-opened left, adopt any of the sweeping concessions made vainly by Ehud Barak, his naive predecessor? "The Palestinians know there will not be any negotiations as long as the terror doesn't stop. They know I'll prevent entrance of Palestinian refugees, which would be a disaster to Israel. They know I will guard an undivided Jerusalem, with the Temple Mount the holiest place of the Jewish people." 
And yet, Sharon is asking himself: What action can he take to show the world that he "really, seriously" means to negotiate with the Palestinians? "We will have to go a different way, with a different plan, because Barak's plan failed." 
Anyone who has been schlepped by Sharon around Judea and Samaria in a helicopter knows that this former general has his specific plan. 
For years, on a settlement hilltop, he would hang a map on a fence and show to visitors (including George W. Bush two years ago) his concept of a defensible Israel next to a contiguous state including virtually all the Palestinians on about half the West Bank. Sharon's potential proposal is not as dreamily self-defeating as the Clinton-Barak bridge to nowhere, but has this practical advantage the other never did: Sharon in power can now deliver what he promises. 
He is more of a diplomat than his "bulldozer" image suggests. Since the unity of Jerusalem is central to his Zionist reaffirmation, did Sharon ask President Bush, in their recent phone call, about moving the U.S. Embassy there? "It's very important, but was not suitable in this conversation." 
He dispatched Avi Posner, Israel's most persuasive multilingual diplomat, to European leaders; this week, his three wise men (Moshe Arens, Zalman Shoval, Dore Gold) will arrive in Washington. They will not be talking just about Palestinian rejectionism; strategy in the Middle East involves a broad range of mutual interests. 
For example, in a breakfast talk with Sharon a few days before his reassertion of sovereignty at the Temple Mount, I asked about Iraq. "Not a backward people, but an insane country," he remarked. With plutonium from Russia and uninspected by the U.N., Saddam's scientists could have a nuclear bomb next year; that would profoundly affect strategy both in the U.S. and Israel. 
I suspect former Defense Minister Arens will be discussing global missile defense this week at the Pentagon. Arafat's intifada may be a migraine headache but Saddam's bomb would be an existential threat. Sharon, who speaks fluent Russian, is aware of Iran's tacit agreement with Russia not to supply Islamic Chechen rebels even as Vladimir Putin pays off by advancing Iran's nuclear development. Though Sharon would like to provide the U.S. an economic and technological bridge to Russia, "Israel will remain Western and American in orientation. We have to take into consideration President Bush's policy about Russia." 
Arik Sharon, the hardliner, has always surprised friends with his combination of cunning and openness, familial constancy and political resilience, sense of mission and sense of humor. What greater surprise than Sharon, the unifier? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); REFUGEES (50%) PALESTINIANS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: EHUD BARAK (78%); SHIMON PERES (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%) SAFIRE, WILLIAM; SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%) ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2001 



324 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Clients clip their budgets, the dot-coms atomize and Madison Avenue retrenches.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
AS concern mounts about the slowing economy's impact on advertising, widespread layoffs are becoming commonplace on Madison Avenue for the first time since the mid-1990's, when the industry emerged from a severe downturn.
 Just months after senior managers were bemoaning a labor shortage and scrambling to find employees, agencies small, large and in-between are suddenly reducing their work forces or not filling vacancies. The reason is clear: Clients are cutting budgets or considering budget cuts or, in the case of numerous dot-com clients, have stopped spending altogether as they go out of business. 
 Agencies closely monitor head counts in good times as well as bad because labor can account for as much as 60 percent of total operating costs. That is increasingly true as more independent shops are acquired by the giant holding companies, whose shares are publicly traded and which order belt-tightening as a way to maintain profit margins. 
So now that advertisers are sneezing, agencies are catching cold. More than two dozen of the best known have laid off an estimated total of 2,000 employees since December, reducing their staffs 2 percent to almost 10 percent. That's in addition to an equal or larger number of dismissals among specialist shops that work primarily in the decimated dot-com sector.
Among the blue-chip general agencies making job cuts are the BBDO Worldwide and GSD&M agencies of the Omnicom Group; Leo Burnett USA, part of the Leo Burnett Worldwide division of the Bcom3 Group; FCB Worldwide, a unit of True North Communications; the Fallon Worldwide and Publicis & Hal Riney agencies of the Publicis Groupe; the Grey Worldwide and MediaCom units of the Grey Global Group; the Lowe Lintas & Partners Worldwide and Martin Agency divisions of the Lowe Group, owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies; and Young & Rubicam Advertising, part of the Young & Rubicam unit of the WPP Group.
The abrupt shift in mood and behavior from the boom last year -- particularly noticeable in a field where optimism is almost always the order of the day -- underscores the sensitivity of the ad business to the psychology of consumers and in turn the psyches of their clients.
"It's reality setting in," said Susan Friedman, president at Susan Friedman Ltd. in New York, a leading executive recruiter for agencies. "People have not been naive about the changes in the business."
"There's a re-evaluation," she added, "and therefore layoffs."
To be sure, not every agency is dismissing employees. For example, Deutsch Inc. in New York, recently acquired by Interpublic, "is still doing a lot of hiring," said Donny Deutsch, chief executive, who estimated the vacancies at 40 to 60 posts.
Not every agency dismissing employees is making massive layoffs, as happened a decade ago when a national recession deeply wounded Madison Avenue. And in many instances, the job cuts are directly related to lost accounts, a cause-and-effect relationship that occurs whatever the economic climate.
But in better times, the team of employees working on an account that leaves an agency is often kept intact as another client in the same category is pursued. Now, staffs are being reduced almost as soon as the clients disclose their departure plans, as happened at Burnett USA when General Motors decided to close its Oldsmobile division, a client since 1967, and at Lowe Lintas when it was dismissed by the Burger King unit of Diageo after almost seven years.
Before, "the fight for human capital was so strong that after you lost an account, you gave the staff something else to do," said Michael J. Russell Jr., an analyst who follows advertising stocks for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in New York. "Now, an account loss here and there becomes an excuse to clean house."
"This is a business where, for the public companies to deliver the earnings they promised, if they see economic softness they manage their costs," he added. "If it looks like you're managing expenses, it earns comfort on Wall Street, which encourages proactive behavior."
That has been amplified by the severity of the dot-com shakeout, as agencies that staffed up in anticipation of significant spending by new-economy clients adjust to diminished budgets -- or no budgets at all.
For instance, at Martin, 40 employees, or 9.6 percent of the staff of 415, were let go mainly because two-thirds of an estimated $200 million in billings from dot-com accounts failed to materialize, said Dean Jarrett, an agency spokesman. Martin, based in Richmond, Va., is working with an outplacement company to help find jobs for those being laid off.
"Agencies are now playing it close to the vest," said Norman Sherman, president for North America at Gundersen Partners in New York, another leading recruiter.
"It's a batten-down-the-hatches mentality," he added. "Instead of 'We'll pick up more business and keep these people,' it's 'What do we need to adequately serve the business we now have?' "
That mindset is prevalent despite a general tilt toward the lean-and-mean style of management in the last several years. Even after Madison Avenue recovered from its recessionary reversals, and enjoyed some of the most profitable years in its history from 1998 through 2000, agencies were hardly overstaffed.
"There has not been a lot of fat to start with," said Elizabeth DeMaso, a partner at DeMaso/Adelson in New York, a recruiting and career counseling company. "But you can't keep people on board if you don't have work to pay their salaries."
At the same time, she added, many agencies "have been smart about trying to maximize talent and resources" by laying off selectively rather than "cutting across the board."
Steven Gundersen, chief executive at Gundersen, echoed her assessment.
"Agencies are making what we refer to as 'keeper lists' of people who make the greatest impact," Mr. Gundersen said, "and want to make sure they're happy and well compensated." That is especially so for jobs like executive creative director, which have been very hard to fill for several years.
To Mr. Deutsch, the current situation is simply part of the business cycle. "I don't think you're seeing anything different between advertising and other industries," he said. "At a time when revenues are tightening, if agencies want to maintain their growth and margins, they've got to be smarter." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (77%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); PSYCHOLOGY (61%) ADVERTISING; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (93%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (93%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (84%); PUBLICIS & HAL RINEY (84%); DEUTSCH INC (60%); GREY GLOBAL GROUP INC (58%); WPP PLC (58%); FALLON WORLDWIDE (54%); GREY WORLDWIDE (53%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (93%); PUB (PAR) (93%); OMC (NYSE) (91%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (58%); WPP (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%)

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2001 



325 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Some Fault Bush Tax Cuts For Lean Days in Texas 

BYLINE:  By JIM YARDLEY 

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Feb. 11 

 BODY:
While President Bush is lobbying Congress to pass his $1.6 trillion tax cut proposal in Washington, lawmakers in his home state are struggling with budget problems that some critics are tracing to tax cuts Mr. Bush passed here as governor.
 For the last week, state legislators have grown increasingly testy about budget projections showing that the state will have little, if any, money to spare. Lawmakers in both parties are talking of possible cutbacks after the projections showed that the state's once-healthy surplus might be nearly erased by budget overruns, particularly from health care costs like Medicaid. 
 "There's no doubt in my mind that George W. Bush's tax cuts have put us in the situation we're in right now," said State Senator Mario Gallegos, a Houston Democrat who regularly criticized Mr. Bush in the presidential campaign.
Mr. Bush's record of cutting taxes in Texas was a centerpiece of his presidential campaign. In 1997 and 1999, Mr. Bush shepherded a total of $2.9 billion in tax cuts through the State Legislature, much of it in the form of property tax reductions for homeowners. At the same time, budget surpluses enabled lawmakers to expand financing for education and some other services. 
But the legislative session that began last month in Austin is shaping up very differently. Last week Gov. Rick Perry, a Republican, hinted that his ambitious program for higher education and improving the state's roads and highways might have to be scaled down.
Bill Ratliff, the acting lieutenant governor, said that there would not be a tax increase, an idea floated by a handful of legislators, and that any predictions of budget cuts were premature.
"I'm not prepared to start pushing any panic buttons," said Mr. Ratliff, a Republican, noting that the real work on the budget would begin next month.
The Texas Legislature meets every other year, and the projected state budget for the next two years is $108.2 billion. While this reflects a $5.1 billion increase in revenue, the growing cost of programs like Medicaid will swallow nearly all the extra money. One estimate shows that the state will have only $300 million to pay for any new initiatives.
The growing cost of health care for the poor, largely Medicaid, is the biggest budget problem. Projections show that an additional $650 million is needed just so that Medicaid and other health care services will be financed for the current fiscal year, which ends on Aug. 31. 
During the presidential race, Al Gore criticized the Texas tax cuts and accused Mr. Bush of mishandling the state's budget after news reports last July gave details of cost overruns for Medicaid. Mr. Gore's aides also seized on an off-the-cuff remark made by Mr. Bush about the state budget. "I hope I'm not here to deal with it," Mr. Bush said, alluding to his presidential hopes.
Scott McClellan, a White House spokesman, said today that Mr. Bush's agenda in Texas, including his tax cuts, "enjoyed strong bipartisan support."
"Texas is in strong, sound fiscal health," Mr. McClellan said. 
The real impact of the tax cuts in Texas has been a subject of debate. Mr. Bush's plan allocated more state money for education, allowing local school districts to cut property taxes. But, in fact, many districts simply took the extra state money without cutting rates. In other cases, rising property assessments offset any savings. Studies have shown that a majority of Texans have not seen their taxes go down.
Garnet Coleman, a Democratic state representative from Houston, said part of the current Medicaid problems resulted from an accounting trick in which lawmakers in 1999 provided money for only 23 months. He said the decision not to finance the 24th month of the two-year budget cycle helped provide a cushion that enabled the tax cuts to be passed. 
The question now is whether the Medicaid costs will prevent lawmakers from expanding the program. Texas already has 1.5 million uninsured children, including an estimated 600,000 who are eligible for Medicaid but are not enrolled. 
After a legislative hearing last week on the rising Medicaid costs, State Senator Chris Harris, a Republican from Arlington, criticized the tax cuts. "We made tax cuts because we thought we had this huge surplus," he said, according to The Associated Press. "I might have voted a little differently on all those tax cuts had I realized that we were only funding 23 months of these programs."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); TAX RELIEF (92%); LOBBYING (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); BUDGET FORECASTS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); HEALTH CARE (75%); TRENDS (65%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%) BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); RICK PERRY (58%); AL GORE (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); YARDLEY, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (71%) TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) TEXAS

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2001 



326 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1909 words

HEADLINE: F.C.C. Auction Hit With Claim Of Unfair Bids 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON and SIMON ROMERO

 BODY:
George D. Crowley Jr., a longtime telecommunications entrepreneur, recalls the day last fall when an old friend contacted him about an intriguing opportunity. The friend represented SBC Communications. As Mr. Crowley knew, the Federal Communications Commission was preparing to begin an auction in December of wireless airwave frequencies that the largest telephone companies desperately needed.
 But many of the licenses were being set aside for small companies like his, while others available to any buyer could be bought by such companies at a deep discount. What if, the friend proposed, SBC's wireless phone venture, Cingular Wireless, helped to bankroll him in the auction? 
 Within weeks, Mr. Crowley set up a new company, Salmon PCS, using $50 million of his own money and $285 million that Cingular paid for an 85 percent stake in Salmon. When the bidding ended Jan. 26, Salmon was a big winner in the auction, which was the largest ever conducted by the federal government. 
Almost all of the nation's largest telephone companies struck similar alliances with small companies that were able to take advantage of the F.C.C.'s small-business preferences.
Now, some of the losing bidders are preparing legal challenges to the auction results. They and other critics, including the federal Small Business Administration, assert that Cingular and three of the nation's other largest wireless companies -- AT&T Wireless, VoiceStream Wireless and Sprint PCS -- took unfair advantage of the F.C.C. rules to win more than 90 percent of the licenses meant for small businesses. Three of those companies also benefited from hundreds of millions of dollars in government subsidies that were supposed to promote competition by helping tiny entrepreneurs, the critics say.
As an examination of the lobbying and deal-making behind the auction makes clear, the wireless licenses are the mineral rights of the information age: rights to a limited and enormously valuable natural resource that is essential for growth in popular cellular markets and expansion into promising new technologies like wireless Internet service.
The F.C.C. auction was planned and conducted under the supervision of appointees of the Clinton administration. Critics say the small-business provisions were revised under heavy lobbying pressure from the big companies that then took advantage of the rule changes. 
So far, the commission under President Bush's new F.C.C. chairman, Michael K. Powell, has shown little interest in reconsidering the results. But the disputes are likely to end up in federal court.
"What these companies did is wrong and they know it," said Paul Posner, the founder of a small mobile paging and telecommunications company in Texas. He hoped to buy a license to begin a new type of local telephone service to compete with the Bell company in San Antonio, but was outbid by one of the two small companies that had alliances with AT&T Wireless.
"This was the single greatest business opportunity of my life," said Mr. Posner, who is preparing to challenge the auction with the F.C.C. and, if that fails, in court.
Executives for the partnerships say their businesses were carefully structured by lawyers to comply with the F.C.C. rules. They say that the small companies will manage their operations independently of their big partners. 
"We feel our moves have been within the spirit and letter of the law," said Mark Bradner, director of acquisitions for AT&T Wireless. 
Mr. Crowley, in a recent interview, said that Salmon had "completely de-coupled the economic interests from the management interests of the company. Cingular has an 85 percent economic interest. We control the management, policy and technology."
Salmon came away with 79 licenses, covering markets with a combined population of nearly 72 million people, at a cost of more than $2.3 billion. Cingular has offered to provide all the financing for any licenses won in the auction and for the building of the wireless networks. 
The critics, however, say management autonomy by the small companies is a practical impossibility because the big companies hold the purse strings. They say it defies logic to think the big companies would finance companies that could become direct competitors.
"AT&T has had a cellular operation in San Antonio for the last 20 years," Mr. Posner said. "If you think AT&T would hand money to another company to go into competion with it in the same market, then you're really stupid."
Adding ammunition to the critics' assertion is the fact that Cingular and AT&T Wireless won no licenses in their own names; Cingular did not even make any solo bids. But they will gain commercial access to licenses in many major markets, covering more than 136 million potential customers and gaining major subsidies and other advantages through their smaller bidding partners.
In Cingular's case, the government will subsidize the purchases of the Salmon-Cingular partnership by providing bidding credits of more than $550 million. And in the case of AT&T Wireless, the winning bids by its small business partners could give the company access to licenses in Maine, North Carolina and Massachusetts that exceed the legal limits that are supposed to prevent one company from taking too much of the spectrum in any local market.
As their relationships with the big wireless companies have come under greater scrutiny, the small businesses have grown hesitant about describing both their intentions and their commitments to the bigger companies.
Alaska Native Wireless, for instance, a new company based in Anchorage that is the bidding partner of AT&T Wireless, won one of the three licenses issued for New York.
When asked whether Alaska Native actually intends to build a wireless communications network in New York, a city that is perhaps the nation's most challenging wireless market, with its skyscrapers, dense population and fierce competition, Conrad Bagne, the company's main administrative officer, replied: "I can't tell you anything about that. All we want to do is maximize the returns on our investment."
Alaska Native agreed to pay $1.48 billion for that New York license, although most of that will be paid by its bidding partner, AT&T Wireless. (Of the $2.9 billion that Alaska Native will pay for all of its licenses, $2.6 billion will come from AT&T.) 
Verizon Wireless, the industry leader and the only major telephone company not to have a small business partner, paid considerably more for its licenses -- including more than $2 billion for each of two New York licenses it won. 
In a recent interview, Ivan G. Seidenberg, co-chief executive of Verizon, said he and his colleagues carefully considered striking a partnership with a smaller company, but ruled it out because they thought working through another company would be too cumbersome. He said he did not think Verizon overpaid for its licenses, because he predicted his big-company rivals would have to spend considerably more money to eventually buy out their small business partners.
"In order to gain control over these assets over time, you have to pay a price," Mr. Seidenberg said. "We looked at this. We concluded it makes a lot of sense in the short term to buy the spectrum, get control of it, get out there quickly, not have bureaucracy and not deal with minority owners who don't have an interest other than flipping it."
The origins of the airwaves battle go back to 1993 and 1994, when Congress and regulators decided to reserve a new block of wireless frequencies exclusively for small entrepreneurs -- companies that federal officials hoped might offer new technologies, while introducing competition into existing markets.
The resulting auction in 1996 proved disastrous for both the industry and the government. The big winner was NextWave Personal Communications, which went into bankruptcy after it was unable to make payments for 63 licenses it had won for $4.7 billion. Those licenses were back on the market in the most recent auction, along with additional new licenses.
The explosive growth of the cellular phone market since the mid-90's, and the need by wireless companies for more airwave frequencies for expanding their networks and adding new services like Internet access, created a great demand for the new licenses by the biggest wireless operators.
In January 2000, SBC Communications and some of the other large carriers asked the government to change the auction rules, asserting that the commission's decision to limit participation to small companies would result in another NextWave situation.
The F.C.C. responded in August by reconfiguring the auction to permit the big companies to participate. It split the spectrum licenses into smaller blocks so that they would be available to big companies that were already near the spectrum ownership limits in many local markets. The commission also granted a special exemption for Dobson PCS, which had grown too large to be considered a small business, so that it could bid in the small business portion of the auction. (Dobson subsequently formed a new small joint venture, DCC PSC, with AT&T Wireless, to take part in the auction.)
The F.C.C.'s moves drew criticism from other quarters of the government. 
"It is hard to see how permitting existing companies to supplement their current spectrum holdings will increase competition," officials from the Small Business Administration wrote in October, calling the F.C.C.'s rationale "illogical and self-contradictory."
Even before the auction began on Dec. 12, F.C.C. officials knew of the formation of bidding partnerships. But they were still stinging from the NextWave debacle, and they also seemed sympathetic to the needs of the big companies. Despite many clear signs that the auction would be dominated by the big companies, the F.C.C. decided not to intervene.
Shortly before the bidding commenced, Salmon and Alaska Native Wireless, a partner of AT&T Wireless, each made up-front auction down payments of nearly $240 million -- staggering sums, considering that to qualify for small-business status, a company could not have gross revenues of more than $125 million in each of the last two years.
A week before the bids opened, an executive at Cingular was quoted in a widely read trade publication, Communications Daily, seeming to acknowledge that Salmon was little more than a bidding vehicle for the larger wireless company. "We are going to be doing all our bidding through our designated entity, Salmon PCS," the Cingular spokesman said in the article. "That will allow us to bid on all eligible licenses, including a number of those set aside just for small businesses."
While the comment raised eyebrows at the F.C.C., the agency decided it would not intervene. Executives at Cingular Wireless recently declined to respond to questions about the auction.
By the end of the auction late last month, some F.C.C. officials were privately lamenting how the agency had struggled to reconcile the seemingly divergent public policies of selling licenses to the highest bidder while also finding room for small companies. The result, some acknowledged, had been the worst of both worlds, an outcome in which the nation's largest telephone companies would receive hundreds of millions of dollars in subsidies.
"We did the best we could under the circumstances," said one senior official who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "But this certainly does make us look like a bunch of idiots."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 17, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A picture of Conrad Bagne, an officer of Alaska Native Wireless, with an article on Monday about the federal auction of airwave frequencies, carried an erroneous credit. The photographer was Al Grillo (not Grill), for The New York Times.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Conrad Bagne is an officer of Alaska Native Wireless, which paid $1.48 billion for frequencies in New York and is a partner of AT&T Wireless. (Al Grillo for The New York Times)(pg. A21) Chart: "Friends in Small Places"In the F.C.C.'s recent wireless communications auction, some licenses were reserved for small companies. But by forming partnerships with small companies, four of the nation's five largest wireless companies - AT&T Wireless, Cingular Wireless, Sprint PCS and VoiceStream Wireless - won most of the small-company auctions. Of the big companies, only Verizon Wireless did not form such partnerships, and it paid much more for its licenses. Here are the auction totals for these companies. Verizon WirelessLICENSES WON: 113TOTAL SPENDING: $8.8POTENTIAL POPULATION REACH: 150.7PRICE PER MEGAHERTZ PER PERSON REACHED*: $5.79 Cingular Wireless as 95% owner of Salmon PCSLICENSES WON: 79TOTAL SPENDING: 2.4POTENTIAL POPULATION REACH: 71.9PRICE PER MEGAHERTZ PER PERSON REACHED*: 3.70 AT&T Wireless as 39.9% owner of Alaska Native WirelessLICENSES WON: 44TOTAL SPENDING: 2.9POTENTIAL POPULATION REACH: 64.7PRICE PER MEGAHERTZ PER PERSON REACHED*: 4.46 VoiceStream Wireless (alone)LICENSES WON: 19TOTAL SPENDING: 0.5POTENTIAL POPULATION REACH: 11.3PRICE PER MEGAHERTZ PER PERSON REACHED*: 4.27 VoiceStream Wireless as 49.9% owner of Cook InletLICENSES WON: 22TOTAL SPENDING: 0.5POTENTIAL POPULATION REACH: 17.7PRICE PER MEGAHERTZ PER PERSON REACHED*: 2.86 Sprint PCS as 80% owner of SVC BidCoLICENSES WON: 5TOTAL SPENDING: 0.3POTENTIAL POPULATION REACH: 8.3PRICE PER MEGAHERTZ PER PERSON REACHED*: 3.38 *A ratio that shows the amount of money paid for a license relative to the number of potential customers in the area that the license covers and the amount of megahertz, or radio spectrum, acquired.(Source: Merrill Lynch; Federal Communications Commission)(pg. A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (93%); PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); LOBBYING (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); WIRELESS REGULATION (77%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (72%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (98%); AT&T INC (96%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (55%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (98%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (98%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (96%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (96%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2001 



327 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: William D. Krimer; Interpreter, 86 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 11 

 BODY:
William D. Krimer, the chief English-Russian interpreter for the State Department for nearly two decades, died on Feb. 4 in Fairfax, Va. He was 86 and lived in Reston, Va. 
 Mr. Krimer was an interpreter for the 1967 meetings between President Lyndon B. Johnson and the Soviet prime minister, Aleksei N. Kosygin; for President Richard M. Nixon's trip to Moscow in 1972; and for President Nixon and President Jimmy Carter in meetings with President Leonid I. Brezhnev. 
 After retiring in 1982, Mr. Krimer returned to translate during President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's visit to the United States in 1987 and for a meeting with President Ronald Reagan in Geneva in 1985.
Mr. Krimer was born in 1915 in Petrograd, now St. Petersburg. After the Russian Revolution, his family fled to Berlin, then England. He came to the United States in 1941, after studying at the London School of Economics, and completed his studies at Columbia University. 
Mr. Krimer's first wife, Catherine E. Krimer, died in 1993. He is survived by his wife of seven years, Irina; a son and daughter from his first marriage, Gregory, of Little Falls, N.J., and Susan Krimer-Yancy of Rockville, Md.; and a stepdaughter, Eugenia Seher of Fairfax. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MARRIAGE (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (56%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (72%); JIMMY CARTER (57%) KRIMER, WILLIAM D 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); GERMANY (79%); ENGLAND (78%); SWITZERLAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2001 



328 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1409 words

HEADLINE: Gore and Bush Strategists Analyze Their Campaigns 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Feb. 11 

 BODY:
Karl Rove, President Bush's chief political adviser, regrets that he allowed his boss to take a Sunday off 10 days before the election. In fact, he said, he should have added one event a day in Wisconsin and New Mexico in the closing week of the campaign, a move that he said may have averted narrow Bush defeats in those states.
 Mr. Rove also wishes that he had recognized earlier that Mr. Gore was a threat in Florida. "I should have shored up the ground game in Florida earlier," he said, citing that lapse as one of "a whole series of little tactical miscues." 
 Carter Eskew, one of Al Gore's top strategists, regrets that he had no detailed game plan after Mr. Gore captured the nomination. 
"We were sitting around, kind of fumbling," Mr. Eskew said. After Mr. Gore had dispatched Bill Bradley in the primaries, he joked, "Everybody was sitting around and measuring drapes for the Oval Office."
Citing examples of how the campaign stepped on its own message, Mr. Eskew said Mr. Gore's break with President Bill Clinton in calling for permanent residence status for Elian Gonzalez "made us look unprincipled and stupid."
In an extraordinary 10-hour session on Saturday that was part confessional, part catharsis and, of course, part spin, the commanders of one of the most contested presidential campaigns in history gathered for the first time in the same room. Free to speak publicly now that the outcome is not at stake, the strategists owned up to blunders that, had they been avoided, could have led to a tidier Election Day -- with Mr. Bush or Mr. Gore as the victor -- instead of the 36-day, postelection standoff.
At the forum, sponsored by the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania, the strategists relived their finest moments, and sketched the clearest picture thus far of how the two sides plotted their strategies.
While operatives from each campaign made their cases in separate panels, it was a striking day as the onetime combatants shared war stories -- and even ventured to suggest how their opponents could have mounted better campaigns.
Mr. Rove, for one, said he kept waiting for the Gore camp to seize the initiative in May, June and July.
He said the Gore campaign's inactivity seemed "bizarre." But he also acknowledged his concern at the time that perhaps the Bush camp was "making the biggest mistake anybody could make, having a defined plan of activity during the period of time when the opposition thinks nobody's paying attention," he said. 
But Mr. Rove said the Gore campaign outsmarted his camp when Mr. Gore took a riverboat cruise down the Mississippi last summer, which he initially thought was silly. Mr. Bush later realized that the boat trip allowed his opponent to reach voters in eastern Iowa. But Mr. Bush was frustrated in his efforts to campaign in that area because his campaign could not find an airport to accommodate his 757. Mr. Rove said it probably cost Mr. Bush Iowa, which he lost by less than 1 percent.
Still, given the nation's prosperity, Mr. Rove said, "We should have gotten our brains beat" last November. He said Mr. Bush made it to the White House because of Mr. Gore's failure to capitalize on the prosperity of the last eight years. He said Mr. Gore needed a consistent focus on "the extraordinary peace and prosperity." (Mr. Clinton has registered a similar complaint to associates, and, officials say, to Mr. Gore.) 
Gore advisers countered that they struggled to use that theme but in the end did not until late in the campaign because voters refused to give Mr. Gore much credit for the economy.
"Anything we tried to take credit for just did not work," said Stan Greenberg, the Gore pollster.
Gore campaign officials also said they could have been more adroit at handling the shadow of Mr. Clinton that haunted the campaign. Yet they said there was very little internal debate about using Mr. Clinton more because polls consistently found that he would be a drag on the ticket.
More than any other single factor, Gore aides said, Mr. Clinton's scandals cost Mr. Gore the White House.
"If there had been no so-called scandals," said Bob Shrum, a top Gore strategist, "does anyone doubt who would be sitting in the Oval Office today?"
Bill Knapp, a Gore media adviser, said his campaign was constantly frustrated by the Bush team's skill at neutralizing Mr. Gore's advantages on issues like Social Security and prescription drugs by devising proposals of its own. And he said Mr. Gore could never come up with personal attacks to level against Mr. Bush on such matters as the draft.
"We tested ad hominem attacks against him," he said. "They were not effective."
The strategists also acknowledged some things they perhaps would have done differently.
Mr. Rove said he participated in the decision not to disclose that Mr. Bush had been arrested in Maine for drunken driving in 1976, an incident that was reported the Thursday before the election. He said the disclosure was publicized most extensively in Maine, and, "It cost us the state." Mr. Rove said, "You could make the argument that there were points during the campaign when it could have been talked about." But, he added, he agreed with the decision to keep it quiet and said that it was "a decision that I'll defend."
Gore aides said that once the nomination was settled they desperately needed to run biographical commercials to burnish Mr. Gore's public image. But they said they could not do so because they had only soft money available, and their lawyers said such money could be used only for issue-related commercials.
Bush advisers, while acknowledging that the laws were murky, expressed disbelief that the Gore campaign let the rules deter them.
Another big problem, Gore advisers said, was that they did not move quickly to contain the negative publicity against the vice president for his performance in the first debate.
Both campaigns were even more eager to chronicle their successes than their blunders. While the Gore lieutenants were generally more self-critical than their Republican counterparts, the former vice president's advisers clung to the belief that they were the victors.
"A point of personal pride," Mr. Eskew said, "is we certainly believe we won the election."
Such remarks prompted Alex Castellanos, a media consultant for the Republicans, to joke at his panel: "I always learn a lot at these things. I learned today that we lost."
Not surprisingly, Bush aides said that their lowest point was when Senator John McCain of Arizona trounced them in the New Hampshire primary. "New Hampshire was horrible," said Matthew Dowd, the campaign's director of polling and media planning. 
Mr. Rove said he wishes now that he had not let Mr. Bush skip the first debate in New Hampshire. "We may have won New Hampshire if we had showed up," he said. (Mr. Bush had been intent on attending an awards dinner for his wife, Laura, in Texas.)
After the primaries, Bush advisers recalled, their roughest patch was in September, when Mr. Gore gained in the polls and Mr. Bush was repeatedly knocked off stride by such events as a purported subliminal commercial from Republicans that flashed the word "rats" on the screen, and a controversy over Bush debate materials that somehow made their way to a close friend of Mr. Gore.
"September was a horrible month," Mr. Dowd said. He quoted the campaign's media director, Mark McKinnon, as calling it the month of "rats, moles and bad polls."
Strategists in both camps managed at one point to find common ground as they pounced on a shared target: the media. They condemned the television networks for mistakenly calling Florida for Mr. Gore on election night, then for Mr. Bush, and then declaring Mr. Bush the winner.
Officials on both sides said the networks had no business projecting winners before the polls closed in states. Bush aides said early projections discouraged voters on the West Coast from bothering to vote. And Gore advisers groused that the declaration of Mr. Bush as the winner on election night contributed to a perception in the postelection period that he had indeed won.
Kathleen A. Frankovic, director of surveys for CBS News, offered an explanation for the rush to judgment by the television anchors, saying journalists acted responsibly and carefully but that the failures were caused by a number of unfortunate factors. She conceded, "We're humiliated when we are wrong." But the Bush and Gore strategists were not sympathetic.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Karl Rove, a top aide in the Bush camp, now voices some regrets. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); MARINE VESSELS (61%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (59%) ANNENBERG SCHOOL FOR COMMUNICATION; UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (92%); KARL ROVE (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%) BERKE, RICHARD L; ROVE, KARL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); GORE, AL; ESKEW, CARTER 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2001 



329 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 35 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO RISES. The euro rose after finance ministers said economic growth in Europe would not slow as much as in the United States. In New York, the euro settled at 93.09 cents, up from 92.58 cents on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Euro to the dollar, since August 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); TRENDS (86%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2001 



330 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 75 words

HEADLINE: Gratefully, Abe Beame 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 I was sad to read of the passing of former Mayor Abraham D. Beame (front page, Feb. 11). 
 I remember sending New York $10 to help out with the financial crisis when he was mayor. It wasn't much, but I was a medical student with a family, taking X-rays to help put myself through school, and we didn't have much.
He wrote us a nice note back, thanking us. It was $10 well invested.

ROBERT D. TOON, M.D.
Mount Sterling, Ky., Feb. 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: TOON, ROBERT D (DR); BEAME, ABRAHAM D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2001 



331 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs; 
Space Rangers

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
It's only a month into the Bush administration and I'm already tired of listening to its foreign policy. Because it seems to be focused on only one idea, which, so far, doesn't work -- building a "Star Wars" missile shield -- against an enemy that, so far, doesn't exist.
 While a day doesn't go by without the Bush team's reiterating its plan to build this sci-fi missile shield, the C.I.A. director, George Tenet, has been highlighting some of the more immediate threats to America -- to which we have no policy responses. 
 Mr. Tenet laid out his views most succinctly in Senate testimony last week, entitled "Worldwide Threats to National Security," and they could be summarized as follows. We are increasingly threatened today by a combustible combination of two new forces: the failure of many nations to master modernity -- particularly in the Middle East -- which is producing a lot of unemployed and angry young people in those countries, combined with the spread of new information technologies, which are super-empowering these angry people in ways that not only threaten the stability of the states they live in but also enable them, as individuals, to threaten America. they don't need a missile to hit us; they can fire a nuclear mortar from a rowboat off Manhattan. 
"As I reflect on the threats to American national security," the C.I.A. director told the Senate, "what strikes me most forcefully is the accelerating pace of change in so many arenas that affect our national security . . . new communications technology that enables the efforts of terrorists and narco-traffickers as surely as it aids law enforcement and intelligence, rapid global population growth that will create new strains in parts of the world least able to cope, the weakening internal bonds in a number of states whose cohesion can no longer be taken for granted, and the accelerating growth in missile capabilities in so many parts of the world."
Maybe the best way to understand this new threat environment is to first go see the movie "Thirteen Days," about the Cuban missile crisis, and then reflect on last year's "Love Bug" computer virus, which, after it was unleashed on the world by two Filipino techies, melted down roughly 10 million computers and $10 billion in data on 7 continents in 24 hours. The Cuban missile crisis was to the cold-war system what the "Love Bug" virus is to today's globalization system -- it was the event that illustrated our most dangerous vulnerability. The Cuban missile crisis illustrated the dangers of a world divided between two nuclear-armed superpowers -- both of which were in charge. And the Love Bug virus illustrated the dangers of a world connected -- in which no one is in charge. The cold-war era was a two-player game with rational actors. The Love Bug era is a multi-player game with many angry, non-rational actors. 
A missile shield, if it can work, may be necessary to protect us in this new world, but it's hardly sufficient. The only way to even begin to manage this new world is by focusing on precisely the area of foreign policy that the Bush team has the most contempt for: nation-building -- helping others restructure their economies and put in place decent, non-corrupt government.
Listen to Mr. Tenet on the Arab world: While everyone is focused on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, he said, "Population pressures, growing public access to information and the limited prospects for economic development will have a profound impact on the future of the Middle East. In many places in the Arab world, average citizens are becoming increasingly restive and getting louder. Through access to the Internet and other communication, a restive public is increasingly capable of taking action without any identifiable leadership or organizational structure." 
Our ability to promote nation-building is limited and should be approached with great humility. But that doesn't mean we have nothing to offer or can't galvanize others. We will be affected by failed states with super-empowered angry people a lot sooner than we're going to face a rogue missile from North Korea. Mr. Bush is speaking about foreign policy this week. This is a good time for him to demonstrate that while he has his father's foreign policy advisers, he doesn't have his father's foreign policy, because he certainly doesn't have his father's world. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (93%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); COLD WAR (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (75%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); POPULATION GROWTH (67%); COMPUTER VIRUSES (64%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (63%); TERRORISM (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); TENET, GEORGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2001 



332 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: Shares of Emulex Plunge On Warning of Slowdown 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: COSTA MESA, Calif., Feb. 12 

 BODY:
Shares of the Emulex Corporation fell 48 percent, dragging down other computer data storage companies, after the company said a slump in demand might cause its third-quarter profit to come in below forecasts.
 Emulex, whose top customers include Compaq Computer, I.B.M. and EMC, said it had fewer orders for its products, which speed data on computer networks. Corporations have curbed spending on Emulex's products and other computer-related equipment as they prepare for an economic slowdown that may hurt their business. 
 "What we're seeing right now is that information-technology budgets are coming under scrutiny, and deployment of Emulex's products will be significantly cut back," said Ashok Kumar, an analyst at U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray. 
Emulex was expected to earn 23 cents a share in the quarter ending in March, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. Profit may miss the mark by 3 to 5 cents a share, Emulex said.
Shares in the company, based in Costa Mesa, dropped $37.13, to $40.38. The plunge was the worst one-day percentage drop for the company since Aug. 25, when the stock fell as much as 62 percent after a fictitious news release said Emulex would have a fourth-quarter loss and its chief executive had quit.
The reduced forecast at Emulex hurt shares of other companies involved in computer storage. The QLogic Corporation, which designs computer cards and switches, fell $15.56, to $54.81. Brocade Communications Systems Inc. dropped $11.13, to $63. The Finisar Corporation fell $7.38, to $22.50. EMC, the leading maker of large computer data storage products, fell $2.24, to $54.16.
Emulex may miss analysts' estimates if customers delay orders until the fourth quarter, Michael Rockenbach, the chief financial officer, said in a replay of a recorded presentation to a Robertson Stephens technology conference in San Francisco. His remarks were posted on the Emulex Web site. 
Company officials were not available immediately to comment further.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DATA STORAGE DEVICES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPUTER INTERFACE CARD MFG (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FINANCES 

COMPANY: EMULEX CORP (91%); QLOGIC CORP (82%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (70%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); FINISAR CORP (66%); BROCADE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS INC (66%); ROBERTSON STEPHENS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EMULEX CORP 

TICKER: ELX (NYSE) (91%); QLGC (NASDAQ) (82%); PJC (NYSE) (70%); FNSR (NASDAQ) (66%); BRCD (NASDAQ) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (91%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (91%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (91%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (70%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (70%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (70%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (70%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); NAICS335921 FIBER OPTIC CABLE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (66%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (66%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%) SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2001 



333 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1879 words

HEADLINE: Double Helix With a Twist; 
Do Fewer Genes Translate Into Fewer Dollars?

BYLINE:  By ANDREW POLLACK 

 BODY:
Incyte Genomics advertises access to 120,000 human genes, including 60,000 not available from any other source. Human Genome Sciences says it has identified 100,000 human genes, and DoubleTwist 65,000 to 105,000. Affymetrix sells DNA analysis chips containing 60,000 genes. 
 But now it turns out there might be only around 30,000 genes. If that's the case, what exactly have these companies been selling? 
 The new gene tally -- 26,000 to 40,000 -- is among the most significant findings in rival papers by Celera Genomics and the public Human Genome Project, which competed to determine the entire sequence of the human genome. For science and the genomics business, the papers are landmarks. But they could also contain some land mines. 
In particular, the consensus of the two rivals that humans have far fewer genes than anticipated could raise questions about the credibility of the genomics approaches used until now. It could also mean that developing drugs based on gene studies will be quicker than anticipated -- but also present a smaller business opportunity. 
Moreover, if a human might have only a third more genes than a roundworm, which has 19,000, that indicates that genes alone cannot explain human biology. So companies and investors will gravitate toward the next big buzzword, proteomics, the study of the proteins.
The lower number of genes also suggests that gene hunters have already received or applied for patents on a greater proportion of total genes than anticipated -- leaving less room for newcomers. But if genes are not the whole story, it also means those patents could be worth less.
At the very least, the lower gene count will be used by Celera to sling mud at competitors like Incyte and Human Genome Sciences. That could help Celera sell its main product, a database of gene information it provides to drug companies for millions of dollars a year. 
"They're going to have some real explaining to do," gloated J. Craig Venter, Celera's president, who said other companies had inflated their gene numbers to make their technology look more valuable. The full genome sequence, he said, will be "a truth serum for the field." 
The competitors defend their approaches and dismiss Dr. Venter's charges as a transparent marketing ploy. "They have to say something about a worthless database," huffed William A. Haseltine, chief executive of Human Genome Sciences, which, like Celera, is based in Rockville, Md. 
Indeed, some of the scientific papers appearing in the journals Nature and Science this week appear to contain some truth serum for Celera as well. They assert that Celera's gene sequence is not noticeably better than the free public sequence, although Celera disputes these analyses as too simplistic. 
Even without any truth serum, however, the genomics business has already been given a dose of humbling reality. Stocks soared last year on hopes that the completion of the human DNA sequence, announced at the White House in June, would revolutionize the pharmaceutical business. And dozens of young companies with techniques for finding or analyzing genes went public on a wing and a prayer.
But many genomics stocks have come down to earth as investors have come to realize that having the "book of life" is just one step on a long road to developing drugs. 
In fact, a new study by Lehman Brothers and McKinsey & Company concludes that genomics could actually double the pharmaceutical industry's research and development costs per drug, at least over the next few years. New genes and proteins are being discovered so rapidly, the report says, that drug companies are being overwhelmed with potential paths to pursue. But since the roles of these genes and proteins in the body are not well understood, there is a greater chance that drugs will fail after costly clinical trials, the report says.
Investors are also having doubts about companies that sell tools, information or services to drug companies, rather than develop drugs themselves. Last year, the tools approach was considered a quicker way to profitability, avoiding the long clinical trials, huge investments and risk of failure inherent in drug development. 
But sentiment has shifted. Now drugs are seen as offering the biggest potential payoff. They can be sold for years, while gene analysis techniques can become obsolete quickly. And, some analysts say, there is too much competition in tools. There are at least 10 technologies, for instance, for detecting genetic variations among people. 
So virtually every genomics company is now tripping over itself to become a drug company.
The stock of Celera, which is primarily an information provider (though it, too, is moving into drug development) is down 83 percent from its peak a year ago. Incyte, another database provider, is down about as far. But Human Genome Sciences, which already has drugs in clinical trials, is down only about 54 percent. Last year, genomics stocks in general fell 9 percent, while the entire life sciences sector rose 24 percent, according to indexes maintained by Burrill & Company, a San Francisco investment firm. 
The papers published this week in Nature and Science will focus attention again on genomics and could rekindle investor enthusiasm, lifting stocks. Celera shares rose $6.15, to $47.75, yesterday and other genomics company shares also rose, although less impressively. But the impact could be small. 
"Investors last year were enamored by the science," said Winton G. Gibbons, an analyst at William Blair & Company. "Now what we need is the movement to medical discoveries, not scientific discoveries." 
Still, there could be long-term implications. Mr. Gibbons said having fewer genes was good news. "We get to drugs and profits faster than if we have to sort through 100,000 genes," he said. 
But others say it means more limited prospects for genomics companies and less of a cornucopia for drug companies. 
Jean-Michel Claverie, who heads a genetic information laboratory run jointly by the French government and the drug manufacturer Aventis, argues that only 10 percent of genes can be expected to provide good targets for drugs. So if there are only 30,000 genes, that means 3,000 targets, a number the drug industry could work its way through in a few years. 
"One can seriously question the long-term sustainable growth and economic viability of the whole industry," he writes in a commentary in Science this week. "The 'end of the beginning' of the genomic era might thus be followed by the 'beginning of the end' very quickly." 
But other experts dismiss this argument. First, they say, even 3,000 targets would be a huge increase. All the drugs that exist today are aimed at a total of only 500 different protein targets in the body. Moreover, the new genome papers show that the complexity of the human body results not so much from having more genes than simpler creatures, but from having many more proteins.
Genes, which are segments of DNA, are of interest to drug companies primarily because they are the recipes for making proteins. But it is the proteins that actually carry out bodily functions, and drugs are developed to bind to particular proteins. 
It was once thought that knowing the gene would be enough to know the protein. But in humans, more so than in simpler creatures, this is turning out not to be the case. Genes are made of pieces that can be spliced together in different combinations. So one gene can make more than one protein.
Genomics alone, therefore, cannot answer everything drug companies need to know. This is giving new impetus to the emerging field of proteomics, which seeks to identify all proteins and how they relate to one another. But proteomics is far more daunting than genomics, because proteins are more complex than genes and also more plentiful, probably numbering in the hundreds of thousands. 
Celera is plowing full bore into proteomics, but other companies have head starts. Just last month, Large Scale Biology, based in Vacaville, Calif., said it had compiled a database of more than 115,000 human proteins. Hybrigenics, a French company, published a map showing about half the interactions of the proteins in the bacterium linked to ulcers and stomach cancer. And the Cytogen Corporation of Princeton, N.J., said it had mapped the interactions of one of the roughly 70 families of human proteins. 
The fact that one gene can make more than one protein also partly explains the wide variation in estimates of gene numbers. 
Celera and the Human Genome Project independently estimated the number of genes by taking the entire genome -- about three billion letters -- and performing various computer analyses to try to determine which small parts of that sequence contain the code for proteins. DoubleTwist, based in Oakland, Calif., also did a computer analysis yielding a much higher figure, a sign that such computer models are subject to wide variations. 
Incyte and Human Genome Sciences find genes by catching them in the act of making proteins. They search human cells for the messages sent by the genes to the cell's protein-making machinery. 
But since one gene can make different proteins, and therefore send out different messages, the assumption that each message comes from a different gene leads to an overcount. Also the technique actually detects not whole messages but fragments of them. So different fragments of the same message might be incorrectly assumed to represent different messages.
Incyte, which advertises that it has 120,000 genes, now says what it really means is 120,000 messages, which would translate into 40,000 genes if each gene is assumed to make three proteins. Roy A. Whitfield, chief executive of the Palo Alto, Calif., company, said the message information was more valuable than genes anyway because it is more indicative of what proteins are being made. 
But Dr. Haseltine of Human Genome Sciences insists his company has found 100,000 genes, not messages. He said the computer methods used by Celera are so primitive they simply missed more than half the genes. "Genome sequencing is probably the worst way I know to find genes," he said.
As if confirming that, AlphaGene, a genomics company in Woburn, Mass., said recently that it used the message technique to find 264 genes on chromosomes 21 and 22 -- the first chromosomes fully sequenced -- that had been missed by the Human Genome Project scientists.
Affymetrix, the leading manufacturer of DNA chips, has always made clear that its chips contain 60,000 genes or messages. Such chips are used to measure which genes are active, or "expressed" in a cell. Measuring which genes are turned on in a tumor cell but not a healthy cell, for instance, could provide clues to the causes of cancer. 
Stephen P. A. Fodor, the chief executive, said Affymetrix would now begin producing chips using the completed genome sequence. Such chips will provide far more information than chips made using the messages. Rosetta Inpharmatics of Kirkland, Wash., describes the usefulness of a similar technique in a paper in Nature this week. 
But to Dr. Venter of Celera this just confirms his contention that the information produced until now is of limited value. "The whole gene expression field," he said, "is going to start over from scratch."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 14, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the business implications of the first analysis of the human genome compared the number of genes in humans and roundworms incorrectly. Humans have about 50 percent more genes, not just one-third more.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An advertisement for Incyte Genomics, which says it can offer access to 120,000 human genes. (pg. C4); J. Craig Venter: President of Celera. (Marty Katz for The New York Times); William A. Haseltine: Chief executive of Human Genome Sciences. (Carol Halebian for The New York Times)(pg. C1) Graphs track weekly closing stock prices and indexes set equal to zero for Celera and Human Genome Sciences from March 1999.(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets stock prices ; Burrill & Co. indexes )(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (95%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (94%); GENOMICS (92%); DNA (90%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (88%); PROTEOMICS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); GENETIC ANALYTIC TECHNIQUES (78%); DNA TESTING (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); PATENTS (69%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (67%); EXECUTIVES (61%) GENETICS AND HEREDITY; RESEARCH; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); PROTEINS 

COMPANY: AFFYMETRIX INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CELERA GENOMICS; INCYTE GENOMICS; HUMAN GENOME SCIENCES INC 

TICKER: AFFX (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3826 LABORATORY ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTS (58%) SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH; 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2001 



334 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Federal Bench Needs a Raise, Bar Groups Say in Report 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN D. GLATER 

 BODY:
Salaries of federal judges may get a boost as a result of efforts by lawyers and judges to focus attention on the disparity between judges' wages and the compensation that lawyers in private practice receive.
 A report that the American Bar Association and the Federal Bar Association will present today to William H. Rehnquist, chief justice of the United States, argues that judges should receive a raise of nearly 10 percent and that their compensation should not be tied to the salary level of members of Congress, who now are paid the same amount as judges. Chief Justice Rehnquist made a similar argument in his Year-End Report on the Federal Judiciary, issued last month. 
 Advocates of raises argue that federal judgeships, among the most prestigious appointments for lawyers, are losing appeal because salaries have failed to keep pace even with the cost of living. 
The salary gap between federal trial judges and private lawyers with comparable experience is so wide that judges are retiring earlier to earn more, current and former judges say, and fewer lawyers are eager to seek judicial appointments, say officials who help find candidates. 
Starting lawyers in New York, for example, can earn as much as $165,000 a year. That compares what the $145,100 now paid to district court judges. And partners at large law firms, who are much closer in age and experience to judges, may take home several times a judge's salary.
"It's not the sort of situation you want," said Edward B. Davis, formerly chief judge in the Southern District of Florida, which includes Miami and Fort Lauderdale. "To maintain a strong, independent judiciary, you've got to compensate on a fair basis."
Largely as a result of relatively lower pay, Mr. Davis, 67, retired from the bench last July -- earlier than he would have if he had earned more -- and joined the law firm of Akerman, Senterfitt in Miami for a hefty raise. "I went out and got a job to take care of my grandchildren," Mr. Davis said.
It is difficult to gauge how many judges have retired early solely to enjoy the lucrative life of a lawyer in private practice. But it is significant, according to a the bar associations' report, that of the judges who had retired since 1961 more than 40 percent did so in the last 10 years.
"The longer a judge remains on the bench, the more that judge is penalized by the absence of automatic pay adjustments designed to keep pace with inflation," the report says. Indeed, some judges have filed lawsuits to challenge the lack of adjustments to their salaries.
The opportunity to earn more was an important factor for Michael Burrage, chief judge in the Eastern District of Oklahoma, who plans to step down as of March 1. Judge Burrage, 50, took a pay cut to join the bench in 1994 and now plans to return to private practice.
"I have some prior clients who have grown, whose businesses have grown, and they have said that if I ever return to practice that I would have an opportunity with them," Judge Burrage said.
Eleanor D. Acheson, who as an assistant attorney general in the Clinton administration ran the Office of Policy Development and worked with senators to identify potential judicial nominees, said that potential nominees were weighing "the salary, the compensation and the prospect of that same compensation for an unknown" period of time. Federal judges are appointed for life.
There is no way to know how many qualified lawyers who might have considered running the judicial gantlet decided not to do so because of the low salary, said Michael F. Armstrong, who worked for former Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York, as an adviser on judicial appointments. 
"You never see those people because they know what a judge makes and have already decided" not to apply, Mr. Armstrong said.
One result of a narrower field of judicial candidates, Ms. Acheson warns, is a judiciary that is less socioeconomically diverse, as only lawyers who feel extremely secure financially will feel that they can afford to be judges. That lack of diversity deprives the courts of experience that can and should inform the application of the laws, she said.
Of course, salary is probably not the only reason that more judges want to avoid the bench or choose to leave it for private practice. Many lawyers do not want to submit themselves to the public scrutiny that accompanies what has become an increasingly confrontational confirmation process.
Still, there are people who, despite the pay cut, will see a judgeship as not only an honor but also an obligation.
"Everyone has a duty to do some public service," Judge Burrage said. "You can't just take and not give back."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (95%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); LAWYERS (91%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); EARLY RETIREMENT (88%); COST OF LIVING (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); LITIGATION (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%) COURTS; JUDGES; WAGES AND SALARIES 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (84%); FEDERAL BAR ASSOCIATION (84%) AMERICAN BAR ASSN; FEDERAL BAR ASSN; CONGRESS (US) 

PERSON: GLATER, JONATHAN D; REHNQUIST, WILLIAM H (CHIEF JUSTICE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (54%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2001 



335 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Houston Journal; 
Legal Fight Stalls a City's Plan for Light-Rail Relief

BYLINE:  By JIM YARDLEY 

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Feb. 12 

 BODY:
Of all the major cities in the nation without a light rail system, Houston would seem the most obvious candidate for one. It has serious traffic problems, which contribute to even more serious air pollution problems, as countless thousands of automobiles chug along the city's ever-expanding maze of highways.
 But for a city that prides itself on its can-do civic image, Houston is having a hard time building a commuter rail line, even one less than eight miles long. Transit officials had planned a groundbreaking on Jan. 25 for the city's first light rail corridor, 7.5-miles along Main Street from downtown, past the museum district and the bustling Texas Medical Center, to the site of the unfinished professional football stadium. 
 The shovels, though, have been put away as opponents have stalled the $300 million project through a temporary order by a local judge. Plans to begin work by Feb. 1 were postponed, and last week Metropolitan Transit Authority officials pulled $130 million in contracts, bluntly leaving this city, which often boasts of having put a man on the moon, grounded again on light rail.
"This is an issue that has been very, very difficult for Houston," said Robert D. Miller, chairman of the transit authority's board. "Now there is so much history caught up in this issue and there are so many players involved in it that it takes on a life of its own."
To a degree, the fight over light rail represents the latest growing pains of Houston, once famous for unplanned growth but lately concerned that it must change its ways.
The project's biggest boosters are business leaders, who consider the rail line essential to downtown redevelopment integral to creating a "signature" street linking the city's sports stadiums, as Houston considers a bid for the 2012 Olympics.
Developers are already envisioning pedestrian-friendly residential and commercial projects along Main Street in which residents would not need a car to get to work, a notion taken for granted in New York but almost unthinkable in Houston.
"This is a very modest start that is being proposed in a very reasonable corridor," said Bob Eury, head of Central Houston Inc., which represents downtown businesses.
Opponents say the project will do little to ease congestion or to reduce air pollution but will instead benefit conventioneers and downtown developers. Last year, Representative Tom Delay, the Republican House whip from suburban Sugar Land, blocked the project from receiving $65 million in federal funds, to the disgust of many downtown business leaders, also Republicans.
Then last month, City Councilman Rob Todd challenged the project in court, arguing that the city must hold a special referendum on the project. Mr. Todd, a Republican, said any project altering city streets required a city franchise, which, in turn, would allow opponents who collect at least 500 signatures to force a referendum.
Transit officials argued that public projects did not require a franchise and that city statutes required 20,000 signatures to force a vote. But a local judge ruled that Mr. Todd was entitled to a temporary injunction until a trial on the matter on March 12.
"This train essentially amounts to a public relations campaign to help Houston redirect economic development into the inner city, and that's not the purpose of transportation dollars," said Mr. Todd, who represents Clear Lake, a section of Houston roughly 20 miles from downtown. "What it's leading to is a gigantic government boondoggle."
To some degree, the Main Street line is the latest controversy in a battle over commuter trains that began nearly two decades ago. In 1983, voters rejected a major transportation plan that called for an extensive commuter train system. Five years later, voters approved a different proposal that included plans for light rail, but then, in 1991, Bob Lanier campaigned against rail in his mayoral bid and won, effectively killing the plan.
Transit officials noted that they initially sought a referendum on the Main Street project, until the county attorney advised them that they were not authorized to do so because they were not issuing bonds or raising taxes. The project would be financed by an existing sales tax of 1 cent.
Advocates hope that this "starter" line will acclimate Houstonians to light rail and encourage them to expand the system later, a start-small formula used in Dallas, which is greatly expanding its system.
"It's not the end all to the whole region's transportation problems," Julie H. Gilbert, a Houston Metro vice president, said of the Main Street line. "But it's time we joined other major cities around the country and offered alternatives to commuters other than the bus. We can't just keep building more highways."
Stephen L. Klineberg, a Rice University professor of sociology, who compiles an influential annual survey of opinion in Houston, said residents ranked traffic as their leading concern last year for the first time since 1989. The current fight represents a suburban-urban tension that plays within city boundaries, because Houston is so large, Professor Klineberg said.
"What you're watching is a kind of old think versus new think," he said, noting that until lately Houston had favored private development with limited government intervention or restraint. "The business community is coming to understand that for Houston to succeed in the 21st century, it has to succeed on the quality-of-life issues."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Officials wanted to start work on Jan. 25 on a short light rail corridor between downtown Houston and the new professional football stadium. (F. Carter Smith for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); AIR POLLUTION (77%); AIR QUALITY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); SPORTS (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%); REFERENDUMS (62%); OLYMPICS (62%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (50%) RAILROADS 

PERSON: YARDLEY, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) HOUSTON (TEX)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2001 



336 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 84 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
TRUCKING COMPANY LAYSOFF ANOTHER 160 EMPLOYEES

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 The Yellow Corporation, a trucking company, said yesterday that it had laid off 160 managers, or about 4 percent of its executive work force, because demand had slowed with the economy. 
Yellow said it might recall the managers, 100 at field locations and 60 at its Overland Park, Kan., headquarters, in 90 days if economic conditions improve. The company also laid off 75 managers on Jan. 12. And 1,000 Teamsters, or 5 percent of Yellow's union work force, remain on a furlough that began late last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRUCKING (92%); LABOR FORCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (85%) TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: YRC WORLDWIDE INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: YELLOW CORP 

TICKER: YRCW (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (93%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (93%) SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL; 

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2001 



337 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: AGIP of Italy Picked to Manage Big Kazakh Oil Field 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER PALA 

DATELINE: ALMATY, Kazakhstan, Feb. 12 

 BODY:
After weeks of jockeying for position by its members, the consortium preparing to undertake a huge oil field development in the Caspian Sea made the surprising choice of AGIP S.p.A. of Italy, the smallest of four candidates, as the company that will manage the project.
 The consortium made the choice on Friday in London, but held off announcing it until the Kazakh government was formally informed by the consortium's management committee today. Per Rettendal of Statoil A.S., the Norwegian oil company, who led the meeting with the government, said in an interview that the energy minister, Vladimir Shkolnik, accepted the choice of AGIP. But Mr. Shkolnik also repeated the Kazakh leadership's request for a commitment that production will start by 2005, a condition set out publicly by President Nursultan A. Nazarbayev last month, Mr. Rettendal said. 
 "We don't really want to set a target date, because we don't know enough about the field," Mr. Rettendal said. "But I think we can find a compromise."
The four members of the consortium that had bid for the management appointment were AGIP, the Exxon Mobil Corporation and the Royal Dutch/Shell Group, each with 14.29 percent of the field, and TotalFinaElf S.A., which owned 14.29 percent on its own and struck deals with BP Amoco P.L.C. 10 days ago and Statoil yesterday to acquire a further 14.28 percent. TotalFinaElf's resulting stake, the largest in the field, had seemed before the consortium's meeting to give it an edge in the competition.
AGIP will take the reins of a project that has planned spending of about $20 billion over several decades to drill 150 to 200 production wells in a nature reserve and build related operations like treatment plants and pipelines.
Two factors were said by people close to the negotiations to have hobbled Exxon Mobil's vigorous campaign to be selected. One was the United States economic sanctions against Iran, which would have prevented Exxon Mobil from recommending to its partners that a pipeline be built through Iran to the Persian Gulf, considered the most economical of several routes under consideration.
Now, as mere partners in the consortium, Exxon Mobil and the Phillips Petroleum Company, the other American member, need only ensure that their share of the field's output not move through Iran.
The second hurdle for Exxon Mobil was said to be that its costs at other fields around the world, averaging about $5.50 a barrel, are the highest of the major oil companies.
Another bidder, Royal Dutch/ Shell, already provides 80 percent of the consortium's expatriate staff in Kazakhstan but drew criticism for what some partners saw as excessive administrative delays and overspending.
Despite its large financial commitment to the project, the people close to the talks said, TotalFinaElf was passed over, in large part because it has no experience in Kazakhstan. AGIP, by contrast, runs a gas-and-condensate field at Karachaganak, in the northern part of the country.
The Kashagan field, named after an early 20th-century Kazakh poet, is thought to be the world's fifth-largest oil field, though exactly how much of its oil is recoverable is not certain. Seismic studies indicate 10 billion to 30 billion barrels of oil, and the potential to produce up to two million barrels of light crude a day once the field is fully developed in about 15 years. It is similar in structure to the better-known Tengiz field about 100 miles to the east.
AGIP, the operating unit of Eni S.p.A., is roughly a quarter the size of Exxon Mobil and half that of TotalFinaElf. It is about 34 percent owned by the Italian government, though the government is considering reducing its stake to 20 percent, AGIP executives said.
As the field's operator, AGIP will start by overseeing detailed exploration of the deposit, which spreads over a 50-mile-by-15-mile area, and will drill an additional half a dozen wells around the first two exploratory wells.
The Kashagan field bristles with so many technical problems that Soviet energy officials, who became aware of it in the 1980's, set it aside to concentrate on Siberia, according to officials of the consortium, the Offshore Kazakhstan International Operating Company, in which a total of nine partners now have stakes. The challenges include shallow water that in winter is covered with drifting ice, high gas and sulfur content in the oil, the difficulties in getting heavy equipment to an inland sea, and the need to tread lightly in a nature preserve. The operator will also have to contend with six governments -- Russia, Turkey, Georgia, Iran, Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan -- all clamoring to have the oil piped through their territory and to garner the transit fees and political influence a pipeline would bring. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EXPLORATION OF RESOURCES; PIPELINES 

COMPANY: AGIP SPA (91%); OANDO PLC (91%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (85%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (85%); BP PLC (84%); STATOIL ASA (84%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); TOTAL SA (83%)

ORGANIZATION: AGIP (ITALIAN CO); EXXON MOBIL CORP; ROYAL DUTCH/SHELL GROUP; TOTALFINA ELF SA; PHILLIPS PETROLEUM CO 

TICKER: UNTP (JSE) (91%); RDSA (LSE) (85%); RDSA (AMS) (85%); RDS.B (NYSE) (85%); RDS.A (NYSE) (85%); XOM (NYSE) (85%); BP (NYSE) (84%); BP (LSE) (84%); STO (NYSE) (84%); STL (OSL) (84%); COP (NYSE) (84%); TTA (LSE) (83%); TOT (NYSE) (83%); TOT (BIT) (83%); FP (PAR) (83%); FP (BRU) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (91%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS324191 PETROLEUM LUBRICATING OIL & GREASE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (91%); SIC5171 PETROLEUM BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (91%); SIC2992 LUBRICATING OILS & GREASES (91%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (91%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (85%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (83%)

PERSON: PALA, CHRISTOPHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) CASPIAN SEA (93%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) KAZAKHSTAN (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (79%) CASPIAN SEA; KAZAKHSTAN

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2001 



338 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: E.A.B. Purchase Lets Citibank Expand Long Island Presence 

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
In a transaction that greatly expands its presence on Long Island, Citibank said yesterday that it had agreed to buy European American Bank from ABN Amro Bank for $1.6 billion in cash, and that it would assume responsibility for $350 million in European American preferred stock.
 Based in Uniondale, N.Y., E.A.B. has $11.5 billion in deposits and operates out of 97 branches, including 67 in Nassau and Suffolk Counties. The remaining 30 branches are in the five boroughs of New York City. 
 Citibank, a division of Citigroup that is a distant second to J.P. Morgan Chase & Company in terms of market share in the New York area, currently has 27 branches on Long Island and an additional 96 branches in the five boroughs.
"Long Island is a wonderful market," Marge Magner, head of Citigroup's domestic retail operations, said during a teleconference with reporters and Wall Street analysts. "We really are looking forward to working off the tremendous base that E.A.B. has."
Ms. Magner said that while there was some overlap in branches between the two organizations, she did not expect a "significant" number would be closed.
"There will not be layoffs associated with branch closings due to overlaps," she added.
European American Bank has 2,200 employees. For the first nine months of last year, the bank earned $101 million.
A sale of European American had been anticipated for some time.
The North Fork Bancorp and the FleetBoston Financial Corporation had been expected to make bids for E.A.B. 
In recent years Citigroup has focused its retail banking efforts outside the United States. 
"I was surprised, but not stunned," by the purchase, said David Berry, director of research at Keefe Bruyette & Woods, the bank stock research firm. "The whole question of whether they want to go out and buy retail bank branching systems is an open question at Citigroup. It might be a smart thing to do. I like this deal because it is in the neighborhood and is a relatively low risk transaction. The deal has some logic to it."
John A. Kanas, North Fork's chairman and chief executive, did not sound overly concerned by the news of Citigroup's impending arrival. 
"Next to having interest rates come down, this is probably the second-best news we have had all year," Mr. Kanas said.
"E.A.B. has been very good competition. We don't think Citi will be as difficult to compete against in the lower-middle-market area, the small- to medium-sized businesses that are E.A.B.'s primary customers." 
Mr. Kanas said North Fork planned to make an announcement of its own this morning. 
Mr. Berry said North Fork is rumored to be interested in acquiring Commercial Bank of New York. 
In an effort to maintain its relationships with many of European American's clients, Citibank said E.A.B.'s two top executives would be joining the company. 
Edward Travaglianti, chairman and chief executive, will become president of a new Citibanking Commercial Markets Group. Brendan Dugan, currently E.A.B.'s president and chief operating officer, will become chief operating officer of Citibanking Commercial Markets Group.
Robert B. Willumstad, chief executive of Citigroup's consumer group, said the deal would immediately add to Citigroup's earnings. The transaction, subject to approval by federal and state banking regulators, is expected to close around midyear, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); EQUITY RESEARCH (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RETAIL BANKING (89%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); PREFERRED STOCK (72%); CLOSINGS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); MARKET SHARE (69%); EXECUTIVES (63%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: ABN AMRO BANK NV (93%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (82%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CITIBANK; EUROPEAN AMERICAN BANK; ABN AMRO 

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); COF (NYSE) (83%); BAC (NYSE) (82%); BAC (LSE) (82%); 8648 (TSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%) SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS; 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2001 



339 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: An Irrational Case of Dread 

BYLINE:  By Norbert Walter; Norbert Walter is chief economist for Deutsche Bank.

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
President Bush is concerned about the state of the United States economy, and so is Alan Greenspan. With such prominent voices expressing worry, it may seem heretical to dispute the idea that the economy is in trouble. But before Americans get too gloomy, they should step back and examine the situation carefully. I think they will find that while being alert is fine, panicking is ill-advised.
 Announcements of job cuts at Motorola and Lucent, and most recently at DaimlerChrysler, seem an ominous sign that the mass layoffs of the early 1990's are about to return. But today, the great American job machine stands more than ready to provide jobs to laid-off corporate workers and dot-com programmers alike. In fact, the rest of the world could only wish it had America's problems. Even though Europe has just seen the first quarter in years in which its economy grew substantially faster than the U.S. economy, unemployment is still more than twice as high in Europe as in the United States, and most European governments are years away from being able to squabble over how they might wish to spend a budget surplus. 
 What is wrong, foreigners wonder, with an American economy that is slowing from an unsustainable pace to a more reasonable rate of growth?
The United States is leading the world in transforming its economy from manufacturing to services -- the direction of increasing profits in an age of globalization and computerization. This sort of transition will naturally generate a constant stream of layoffs as workers shift from poorly run companies or those trading on old skills to new and more efficient employers. In fact, if there were no layoffs, that would be a sign that the United States was somehow missing needed structural adjustment.
The layoffs in the early 1990's were an important contributor to the rapid growth of American productivity later in the decade, part of a change to an economy increasingly driven by automated industrial processes and rapid flows of information. The current relative weakness appearing in the industrial sector reflects the same ongoing transformation.
It is very hard for outsiders to believe that the United States -- with housing starts at over 1.5 million units and an unemployment rate at little more than 4 percent -- is in trouble. Nor have retail sales and consumption spending slipped as much as the gloomy headlines and measures of consumer confidence might imply.
There is, of course, an ongoing need for the United States to work hard for higher productivity and to aim at higher household savings and a smaller trade deficit. But why are Americans complaining about a broader economic outcome that -- in principle -- was strongly desired just a year ago? Then, the tight labor market and fast economic growth had analysts calling for higher interest rates to relieve the pressure on labor markets that might otherwise lead to inflation.
And here is a basic question: If things were so good until very recently, how did they become so bad so fast? The answer lies less in what is actually happening than in who is telling the story. The steady drumbeat of worry over the past few months has come almost exclusively from economists who specialize in the stock markets, especially the Nasdaq. There is far less gloom among the American corporate economists I speak to in non-financial companies, people whose main business is to advise top managers on longer-term trends that drive decisions like whether to build new factories or buy equipment. These economists do not often appear on television, but they are close to real-world decisions on employment, order flow and investment. If the layoffs were really such a bad sign, it should be not just Wall Street economists, but, even more so, these others who would sound the alarms.
Viewed from outside the country, there are few signs of serious weakness in the American economy -- just clear evidence that it has come back down to earth from a period of very fast growth before there could be real damage from a permanent rise in inflation. Only six months ago, most American economists still wanted to see the economy cool off. Because the Federal Reserve has done its job well by raising interest rates at the right time, there should be celebration, not trepidation.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christoph Niemann) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); CONSTRUCTION (65%); GLOBALIZATION (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); RETAIL SALES (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (57%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (73%) WALTER, NORBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2001 



340 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Public Interests; 
Fly the Lonely Skies

BYLINE:  By GAIL COLLINS 

 BODY:
The great thing about the airline industry is that politicians take it so personally.
 "One night after I landed in Dallas, I waited more than three hours for a gate," said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada the other day, at a hearing of the Senate Judiciary Committee. The issue at hand was airline mergers and acquisitions, and Mr. Reid earnestly testified that he had been boning up on his constitutional law and had reread International Shoe v. State of Washington. But in the end, you know, it all came down to three hours on the tarmac. 
 As it does for us all.
Yesterday, during a rally for campaign finance reform in Illinois, Senator John McCain pointed out four times that his plane had arrived three hours late. Mr. McCain's Commerce Committee will be holding hearings on airline delays in the very near future.
"There's no experience like a personal one," said Senator Michael DeWine of Ohio, the chairman of the Judiciary Antitrust subcommittee. 
Mr. DeWine's subcommittee is currently trying to decide how it feels about plans by American and United Airlines to swallow up T.W.A. and US Air. I have a strong opinion on this issue, based entirely on the fact that the last time I flew on T.W.A. there was a shrieking sound from the rear that lasted the entire flight. The flight attendant told us there was a leak in the sealant on the emergency exit. If American acquires T.W.A., I think Congress should demand that they fix that seal. Really, I could tell you stories.
But we digress. Most of the senators who testified about the mergers said they wanted to do whatever was best for unfettered competition, which they defined as lots and lots of airplanes servicing the least popular destinations in their constituencies.
"The free market is the best system by which to solve the air service situation," said Senator Charles Grassley, who then demanded to know what the industry intended to do for Iowa, a state with a small, spread-out population that's not showing any signs of getting larger. When you rely on the magic of the marketplace, this is exactly the kind of place that turns into a toad.
"We haven't been able to grow in structure to get to your state, but we'd really like to go there," said the head of Continental Airlines, with exquisite tact.
The sparse service and high cost of tickets to relatively low-demand destinations is an obsession with many of our nation's elected officials. It ruins their hopes for economic development, and it's hurtful, like discovering that your beloved daughter can't get a date for the prom.
"Upstate New York has been treated very poorly by airline service," said Senator Charles Schumer. Most of the nation probably thinks being a U.S. senator from New York is a glamorous job. But Mr. Schumer seems to spend his entire life worrying about how he can make Buffalo happy. You'd have more fun being city comptroller.
Some people see Washington as a place that takes money from the rich and gives it to the poor. But in fact, the true obsession of Capitol Hill is taking stuff away from crowded places and giving it to the ones that are empty or shrinking. North Dakota may not have many people, but it still has two senators, and last month one of them interrupted a hearing on electricity deregulation to demand to know why it costs more to fly from Los Angeles to Bismarck than from Los Angeles to Washington.
If Washington really believed in free enterprise, it would auction off the right to land at the most crowded airports, like La Guardia and Reagan National in Washington. Right now, the airlines that have these slots get to keep them forever. Some carriers seem to be nothing more than slot assignments and a bunch of accountants, and some of the mergers seem to be less about acquiring airlines than acquiring the slots.
Economists think the current system is nuts. "Abominable," said Alfred Kahn, the architect of airline deregulation. But Congress is terrified that if the slots were put up for grabs, they would all go to planes flying between the biggest cities.
The federal government could also free up a lot of flying room by underwriting high-speed rail service between New York and Washington. But that involves Amtrak subsidies, which fiscal conservatives hate. They feel the free market should support mass transportation -- unless, of course, the free market doesn't feel like going to Bismarck today. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (76%); MERGERS (76%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (62%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (56%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (88%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%) COLLINS, GAIL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2001 



341 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Napster Suffers Setback In Appeals Court Ruling
A federal appeals court dealt a major setback to Napster, which has shaken the record industry by allowing people to copy music free over the Internet, by largely affirming a lower court ruling that the company encourages and abets the infringement of copyrighted works.
 Music industry experts and Napster officials said the ruling may ultimately force the service to shut down. But the order does not force Napster to close immediately. Rather, the decision asks the lower court to fashion an injunction requiring that Napster stop the exchange of copyrighted works while permitting the service to continue to be used to trade songs that artists and record labels have authorized for exchange. Page A1. 

No Bush Ruling on Airline Strikes
Lawrence B. Lindsey, the director of the National Economic Council and a top economic adviser to President Bush, said that the president's decision to prevent mechanics at Northwest Airlines from going on strike did not necessarily mean that the Bush administration would intervene to head off potential strikes at three other major airlines. C6.

Citibank Agrees to Purchase E.A.B.
Citibank agreed to pay $1.6 billion for European American Bank, which has branches in New York City and Long Island, from ABN Amro, the Dutch financial company, for $1.6 billion in cash and the assumption of $350 million in E.A.B. preferred stock. C10.

Planting of Genetic Crops Increases
Despite growing concerns over the use of biotechnology in agriculture, American farmers are increasing their orders to plant genetically altered crops, according to surveys by the nation's biggest seed companies. C2.

Pricey Drug May Face Competition
Oxford GlycoSciences, a British biotechnology company, said it planned to file for approval to sell its drug for Gaucher disease, a rare genetic disorder. If approved, the drug would compete with Cerezyme, made by Genzyme, one of the most expensive drugs in the world. C4.

Stocks Rise, Led by Blue Chips
Stocks rose as investors searched for companies that could best weather the nation's economic downturn. The Dow Jones industrial average jumped 165.32 points, or 1.5 percent, to 10,946.77. The Nasdaq composite index gained 18.69 points, or 0.8 percent, to 2,489.66. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 15.55 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,330.31. C11.

Emulex Says Slowdown Is Possible
Shares of Emulex fell 48 percent after the company said a slump in demand might cause its third-quarter profit to come in below forecasts. Emulex said it had fewer orders for its products, which speed data on computer networks. Companies have curbed spending on Emulex's products and other computer equipment as they face an economic slowdown that may hurt their business. Shares of Emulex dropped $37.13, to $40.38. C9.

A.I.G. Plans to Increase Auto Rates
The American International Group said that it was seeking increases of 10 percent or more in its auto insurance rates, continuing a trend begun a year ago in the industry. C5.

Oxfam Campaign for Cheaper Drugs
Oxfam, the influential charity, began a campaign to force multinational drug companies to cut the prices of drugs to poor nations. A5.

Raises Urged for Federal Judges
A report says that federal judges should receive a raise of nearly 10 percent and that their compensation should not be tied to the salary level of members of Congress. A23.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,946.77 up 165.32Nasdaq composite -- 2,489.66 up 18.6910-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.04% up 0.02The euro -- $0.9309 up 0.0051The dollar -- 117.55 yen down 0.12 Graph: "TODAY" shows retail sales since July.January figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.5% Graph shows share prices of Emulex for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPELLATE DECISIONS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); RECORD REVENUES (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); INJUNCTIONS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); APPROVALS (76%); STRIKES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); GENETIC DISEASES (69%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (69%); ORPHAN DRUGS (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (69%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (67%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (66%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (66%); PREFERRED STOCK (65%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: NAPSTER INC (92%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (56%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (55%); GENZYME CORP (54%); OXFORD GLYCOSCIENCES LTD (53%)

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (56%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2001 



342 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Reaching Out to Japan 

 BODY:
The sinking of a Japanese fishing vessel by an American Navy submarine off Hawaii last Friday has prompted apologies from Washington, a promise to investigate and a moment of silent prayer yesterday from President Bush. These actions reflected appropriate sensitivity by the new administration as it moves to renew ties with Japan at a difficult time. Indeed, the submarine episode could force the administration to make some quick decisions on how to handle an apparently growing uneasiness over the presence of American troops in Japan, most of them on Okinawa. The administration also needs to decide how to address Japan's suddenly worsening economic problems. 
 Three days after the submarine accident, many questions remain. The first is how the 360-foot submarine could have failed to detect the presence of the 190-foot trawler, the Ehime Maru, before proceeding with an extremely rapid emergency surfacing drill. Twenty-six Japanese were rescued, but nine, including four high school students on a field trip learning to fish, are still missing. In Japan, commentators are also openly asking why the submarine did not rescue those thrown into the sea after the accident but instead waited for the Coast Guard to pull them from the water. American officials say the waves were too high for such a rescue operation, but the Japanese captain seems to be disputing that view. 
 Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori has also drawn criticism for his handling of the episode after he was reported to have asked journalists why they were interrupting him during a golf game to ask about the disaster. As President Vladimir Putin discovered last August when a Russian submarine sank in the Barents Sea, a nation's citizens can be very unforgiving if officials do not treat such incidents seriously from the start. In addition, a wave of populism is sweeping through Japan right now, and some analysts say that political parties questioning the security relationship with America could gain in the parliamentary election this summer.
Mr. Bush would do well to listen to Japanese concerns about the submarine episode and the larger security issues. Many Japanese are also uneasy over whether the new administration will embark on a missile defense program that could anger their neighbors Russia and China, or take a more confrontational approach to North Korea than was adopted by President Clinton. 
Mr. Bush's choice of a new ambassador to Japan will be among his most important diplomatic appointments. Since the days of Mike Mansfield, Japan has come to expect a senior American political figure to represent American interests in Tokyo. The current ambassador, former House speaker Thomas Foley, fits that pattern, which Mr. Bush will surely want to continue when he makes his own choice.
The most urgent problem facing Japan is economic. Once again the country appears to be slipping back into a recession after more than a decade of little or no growth. Its troubles will make it all the harder for the United States to avoid an economic downturn. Recently Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill spoke disapprovingly of Washington's traditional practice of pressing the Tokyo government to change its economic or industrial policies. He said he would prefer working directly with Japanese business executives. That approach sounds unrealistic. The United States cannot afford a hands-off attitude toward the need for Japan to reform its banking system, deregulate its sclerotic industrial structure and stimulate its economy. 
Right now, however, the most immediate priority is to do everything possible to investigate the submarine tragedy and make amends for those who may have lost their lives. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL FISHING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); NAVIES (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MISSING PERSONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TRENDS (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (62%); POLITICAL PARTIES (62%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (60%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (53%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (53%); HIGH SCHOOLS (53%) EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; SUBMARINES; GREENEVILLE (SUBMARINE); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%) O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) HAWAII, USA (93%); ARCTIC OCEAN (79%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); CHINA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) JAPAN; HAWAII

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2001 



343 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Style Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Review/Fashion; 
When the Spotlight's Smile Turns to a Glare

BYLINE:  By CATHY HORYN 

 BODY:
Those 15 minutes of fame that Andy Warhol promised everyone now seem like an eternity in an age gone stale with hype and mediocrity. Does anyone outside the myopic fashion world -- the editors, photographers and stylists gathering this week for the New York fall 2001 collections -- really know who Miguel Adrover is? And if they don't know about Mr. Adrover, who tested the patience of even his most ardent fans on Sunday night with a show reeking of incense and exoticism, what chance do they have of knowing Alice Roi or Elisa Jiminez?
 Anyone who followed fashion in the late 1980's will remember tripping down to lofts in SoHo to see Isaac Mizrahi or Stephen Sprouse, or uptown to the madhouse of Seventh Avenue and 40th Street, amid the dress-rack pilots and the socialites gliding out of limousines, to see Marc Jacobs, when he was still at Perry Ellis, or, up at 550 Seventh Avenue, Michael Kors. 
 It isn't with any hideous sense of nostalgia that one recalls those designers. After all, Mr. Mizrahi closed his doors. Mr. Sprouse did a Peter Pan. Todd Oldham bowed out, too. Fame lasts for no one. That it has lasted longer for Mr. Jacobs and Mr. Kors is due in part to their association with LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, but more to their old-fashioned sense of patience -- and their ability to tell a continuous story through their clothes that, year by year, people outside the fashion world can comprehend.
Mr. Adrover has heaps of patience. Money, too, though it's uncertain if his financial backer, the Pegasus Apparel Group, can create a brand out of a designer who a year ago was salvaging fabric off the streets. A larger question is whether Mr. Adrover's clothes have a compelling story to tell. Last season he proved not only that he was a good interpreter of American sportswear classics, but also that he could see a style early, like the return of military, and put a camp spin on it. On Sunday night, under a tented roof on the Lower East Side meant to evoke the exoticism of Marrakesh, Dar es Salaam or maybe the international arrivals hall at Kennedy Airport -- who could tell? -- his exquisite radar failed him.
There was a moment early in the show when one thought that Mr. Adrover was merely giving his audience a taste of inspiration, and that the flowing robes and jangling music would eventually morph into Western tailoring and the harder street rhythms of New York, which Mr. Adrover understands so well. But it did not happen.
Mr. Adrover, who is from Spain, must know that other designers have been this way before -- notably Yves Saint Laurent and Jean Paul Gaultier. But unlike them, he became too absorbed in the reality of a look, rather than distilling its essence and commenting on it in an original way. And even when he did break out of the souk drama, with some beautiful floor-length coats and offhand mixes of tailoring and draping, one still had the feeling that his audience had come to inspect the emperor's new clothes.
With stores watching their budgets in the face of a possible recession and more designers trying to compete for attention, this is hardly a moment to drift. Yet, among the younger designers showing on Sunday, it was hard to locate a point of view that really set them apart. To look at William Reid's collection, with its honky-tonk mix of ruffled blouses and homey plaids, was to have the feeling that he was being so self-consciously antifashion that he might actually be embarrassed to do a straight seam. It's as if everything has to be pushed into a weird direction, contorted, to be considered hip.
This was Ms. Roi's problem, too. She opened with some cute stag prints and those ladylike details she knows how to treat with some irony. But then out came skirts and blousey dresses cut tightly around hems. To what end? And everything seemed to have some kind of embellishment -- braided suspenders, chiffon ruffles, sashes -- whether it made sense or not.
Christine Ganeaux, one of the young designers in the Moet & Chandon group show, stuck to what she's good at: sexy low-slung trousers and terse masculine tailoring. 
Ms. Jiminez's portion of the Moet show was something of an ode to harem power, with women of many different body types, some seminaked and oiled, wafting out in jersey dresses that looked as if they been hacked with a machete.
Nothing like that happened at Diane Von Furstenberg's show, although the arrival of the Hilton sisters caused a brief stir. The show was a smart blend of tailoring (unlined wool coats with velvet trim) with wispy chiffon tops in vine and woodsy prints. A moody palette of olive, brown and loden was occasionally glossed with rhinestones, and the wrap dresses looked fresh over geometrically patterned turtlenecks.
Kenneth Cole also put on a solid show, on Monday, helped by styling that gave a cool spin to distressed leather coats, blouson charmeuse dresses and suede wrap skirts with ties that nicely hinted of bondage straps.
But the opening round of the New York collections belongs to Daphne Gutierrez and Nicole Noselli of Bruce. In a Chelsea loft on Sunday, crowded with Japanese buyers looking for the avant-garde in New York, they displayed their honest ability to drape and cut clothes elegantly, and with no more than a couple of dozen outfits. Their snug leather and gray corduroy jackets, one with a keyboard of pleats down the front, looked light, and a feathery gray wool dress with silver embroidery nestled discreetly near a shoulder was almost emblematic of how to make great clothes without hype.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Blouson top in printed chiffon from Diane Von Furstenberg, with tweed skirt and wool coat.; Gray wool dress with subtle embroidery near one shoulder by Daphne Gutierrez and Nicole Noselli, of Bruce.; Kenneth Cole's purple charmeuse blouson dress with houndstooth check coat. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times); Christine Ganeaux's low-riding pants with knit top and maxi-coat, at the Moet & Chandon show.; Elisa Jiminez's jersey dress with slashing and lacing upthe sides, atthe Moet & Chandon show.; Miguel Adrover's tiered skirt and sweater, with woven detail.; From Bruce, a gray corduroy jacket with a keyboard of pleats over a flaring wool skirt.; Alice Roi's print silkblouse with a pleated chiffon collar and a miniskirt. (Photographs by Corina Lecca for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (89%) APPAREL; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (93%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (68%); PEGASUS APPAREL GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (93%); LVMH (BIT) (93%); PANASONIC (NSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (93%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (93%)

PERSON: DIANE VON FURSTENBERG (72%); MARC JACOBS (57%) HORYN, CATHY; ROI, ALICE; GUTIERREZ, DAPHNE; NOSELLI, NICOLE; COLE, KENNETH; VON FURSTENBERG, DIANE; GANEAUX, CHRISTINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2001 



344 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: White House Is Not Ruling Out Airline Strikes 

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
A senior White House official said yesterday that President Bush's decision to prevent mechanics at Northwest Airlines from going on strike did not necessarily mean that the Bush administration would intervene to head off potential strikes at three other major airlines.
 "We will see how things go from this time forward," said Lawrence B. Lindsey, the director of the National Economic Council and a top economic adviser to Mr. Bush. "This does not prejudice the future cases one way or the other." 
 The White House said on Friday night that it would order mechanics to keep working and appoint a presidential emergency board to help fashion a settlement if an agreement between the union and the airline was not reached by March 12. 
The unusual announcement came shortly after the National Mediation Board, which governs labor relations in the airline and rail industries, started the clock on a 30-day cooling- off period that is the precursor to a strike. Since 1966, the only presidential emergency board in the airline industry was appointed by President Bill Clinton in 1997, minutes after pilots at American Airlines walked off their jobs.
After an emergency board is appointed, workers must stay on the job for 60 days while the panel, which is usually made up of three labor experts, studies the dispute and recommends a solution. The unions can reject the board's recommendation and then strike but Congress also has the authority to impose a settlement. 
Unions strongly oppose emergency boards because they believe they eliminate the leverage of a strike. After the White House issued its statement on Friday, spokesmen for both the Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association, which represents Northwest's 8,000 mechanics, and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers condemned the decision.
In addition, last week, both Minnesota senators and several other elected officials urged Mr. Bush to let the negotiating process play out.
Mr. Lindsey said that the White House's actions were heavily influenced by a recommendation from the National Mediation Board.
According to the Railway Labor Act, an emergency board is justified if a dispute threatens to disrupt interstate commerce by depriving a section of the country of essential transportation service. Mr. Lindsey said that he was convinced that a Northwest strike met that standard. 
But the mediation board also had other reasons for recommending presidential intervention: after months of negotiations, the airline and the union were still far apart. 
Before the negotiations ended last week, Northwest was offering to pay $31 an hour, an 18 percent increase and the highest wages in the industry. But the Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association wanted a 40 percent increase. It took over representation of Northwest's mechanics from the machinists union in 1998 promising dramatic gains. During the talks, it frustrated both Northwest and the federal mediators with its demands and indecisiveness, several people involved said. 
"We couldn't bridge the gap," Francis J. Duggan, the mediation board's chairman, said in an interview yesterday. "We had spent more hours on this than any case that I know of. We had our most senior mediators spend over 100 days. We just got to the end of our rope. We are not happy about that."
Mr. Duggan added that the board was concerned that the impasse at Northwest was holding up settlements at other airlines. United Airlines is negotiating with its mechanics, who are represented by the International Association of Machinists. The Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association is campaigning to take over that representation so the machinists are said to be waiting to see what happens at Northwest to make sure they get at least as good a deal before settling with United.
Delta Air Lines is also nearing a critical juncture in its talks with its pilots. The union said yesterday that its members voted overwhelmingly to authorize a strike. It has agreed with management that if the two sides cannot reach agreement by the end of this month, they will ask the mediation board to start the 30-day countdown to a walkout.
Finally, American Airlines is near an impasse with its flight attendants.
Mr. Duggan said that the mediation board is aware of holiday schedules and wants to be sure that if there are strikes the public suffers the least harm. "This was unique for a number of reasons," he said of the situation at Northwest. "We have about four or five other airline cases coming. This is the oldest one, the ripest one. It's the one that everyone else is watching."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); STRIKES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (75%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (73%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (73%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION REGULATION & POLICY (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (68%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; STRIKES 

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS & AEROSPACE WORKERS (59%); NATIONAL MEDIATION BOARD (56%) NATIONAL ECONOMIC COUNCIL; INTERNATIONAL ASSN OF MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS; NORTHWEST AIRLINES; UNITED AIRLINES; DELTA AIR LINES INC; AMERICAN AIRLINES 

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (73%) ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE; LINDSEY, LAWRENCE B; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2001 



345 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Bush Seeks $5.7 Billion Increase For Military Salaries and Benefits 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: FORT STEWART, Ga., Feb. 12 

 BODY:
Even as conservatives in Congress pressed for more money for the military, President Bush today proposed shifting $5.7 billion in Pentagon spending for increased pay, improved health care and better housing, warning that substandard benefits and aging barracks were taxing soldiers and their families.
 Speaking to 8,000 soldiers and visitors assembled on a parade field at this sprawling Army post west of Savannah, Mr. Bush used unusually pointed language to depict the armed forces as frustrated, demoralized and unappreciated, a theme he often used in last year's campaign. 
 "While you're serving us well, America is not serving you well," he said, appearing on a military base for the first time as commander in chief. "Many in our military have been overdeployed and underpaid. Many live in aging houses and work in aging buildings. You see some of this right here at Fort Stewart." 
The crowd punctuated each sentence with applause, yelps and whistles.
Mr. Bush's visit to Fort Stewart, the first of three trips to military bases this week, shifted the new administration's message to matters of defense and national security after three weeks in which he focused on education, tax cuts and other parts of his political agenda.
Today's trip and the proposed spending increases on personnel, announced before his formal budget proposal is unveiled, seemed at least partly intended to deal with muted criticism from military commanders and louder comments from Republicans in Congress that Mr. Bush had not moved quickly to give the Pentagon an infusion of cash for training, repairs and new equipment.
After a campaign in which he derided the Clinton administration's handling of the military, Mr. Bush has said he does not intend to increase the Pentagon's budget significantly until Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld completes a review of military strategy and the armed services.
The $5.7 billion -- $1.4 billion for pay, $3.9 billion for health care and $400 million for housing -- would fall within the $310 billion budget that President Clinton had outlined for the Department of Defense for the fiscal year that begins in October.
Mr. Bush's aides have said that he will, more or less, submit that budget, which would represent a $14 billion increase over the current $296 billion budget. Mr. Bush's spokesman, Ari Fleischer, said that the money for personnel represented new spending, while the rest of the $14 billion increase would cover rising costs due to inflation.
As a result, the decision is likely to cause still more concern at the Pentagon and in Congress, since it will force budget planners to shift planned increases from other parts of the military budget to the areas Mr. Bush outlined today. "It's a shifting in priorities," an aide said.
Mr. Bush's proposal to increase military pay continues a trend that started two years ago, when President Clinton and Congress concluded that military pay was not adequate. They agreed on an immediate 4.8 percent raise, coupled with even higher increases for mid-career soldiers and officers who have been leaving the military in droves in recent years.
In the current year, salaries rose another 3.7 percent. Pay was scheduled to rise an additional 3.9 percent in the coming year, but Mr. Bush is proposing to expand that to 4.6 percent, at a cost of $400 million. The plan would set aside another $1 billion for targeted increases, re-enlistment bonuses or other incentives, an aide said today. 
Neither Mr. Bush nor aides detailed how they would parcel out the new spending. Officials said percentages for the health care and housing increases were not available.
Much of the spending Mr. Bush unveiled today would simply pay for initiatives that began under President Clinton but were not included in spending plans. The $3.9 billion in health care would pay for an expansion of benefits that Congress approved last year. The military has also been trying in recent years to renovate aging housing, and some of the barracks Mr. Bush visited today had recently been rebuilt.
In Washington, reaction to Mr. Bush's proposals varied. Senator John W. Warner, a Virginia Republican who is chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, welcomed the spending proposal but warned that the Pentagon needed -- by July 4 -- an emergency spending bill for the current budget "to address immediate personnel and readiness needs."
Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House Democratic leader, released a statement accusing Mr. Bush of "going back on his pledge to invest in troops" by devoting so much of the projected surpluses in the federal budget on his $1.6 trillion tax cut proposal.
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, the former Democratic vice-presidential candidate, also criticized the tax cut plan, and called for an immediate infusion of cash for the military. 
"I, too, want to provide tax relief, and I believe we can, but not at the expense of our other priorities or at the cost of our shared responsibilities," Senator Lieberman said.
Here in Fort Stewart, on a gray, chilly day, the reaction was far less ambiguous.
Mr. Bush, a Republican whose candidacy was widely, if unofficially, supported by many in the military, received a rousing reception from the soldiers, many of them members of the Third Infantry Division and the 48th Combat Brigade of the Georgia National Guard. They cheered even when he spoke of deteriorating conditions in which they live and work.
The division's commander, Maj. Gen. Walter L. Sharp, called today "a great day to be a dog-faced soldier." Specialist Geoffrey C. Wheelan, 22, of Barstow, Calif., said he was confident Mr. Bush would ease budgetary constraints that have created shortages of parts, people and spirit. "After eight years in which people didn't like the military and talked about demilitarization," he said, "it's nice to have a president who wants to bolster the military."
Despite doubts in some quarters over his spending plans, Mr. Bush sought to demonstrate his support for the military. "You're among the first in the Army to hear me extend a 'hoo-ah," Mr. Bush said, using a traditional Army exclamation. "Hoo-ah!" the crowd thundered back.
Although he never mentioned his predecessor, many of the issues he addressed echoed those that critics leveled at Mr. Clinton over the years. "We owe you and your families a decent quality of life," Mr. Bush said. "We owe you the training and equipment you need to do your jobs. And when we send you into harm's way, we owe you a clear mission, with clear goals."
Mr. Bush has pledged to review overseas deployments, which have proliferated since the end of the cold war. He noted that in the last year 24,000 troops had passed through Hunter Army Airfield, a major staging area nearby for soldiers headed overseas, "deploying everywhere from Bosnia to the Bahamas."
The Third Infantry Division, which has its headquarters here, is among the busiest forces in the military. It has more than 2,300 troops overseeing the American peacekeeping mission in Bosnia today and will send 1,700 for a second six-month tour in March. Another brigade's worth of soldiers is headed to Kosovo in May.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush, with Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, at Fort Stewart, Ga., where he began a shift of focus toward military issues. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A1); President Bush greeted troops yesterday from Fort Stewart, Ga., where he announced a $5.7 billion plan to improve military pay, health care and housing. It was the first of three trips to military bases this week. (Associated Press)(pg. A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (93%); ARMED FORCES (92%); MILITARY BASES (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); ARMIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; WAGES AND SALARIES; FORT STEWART (GA); ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%) MYERS, STEVEN LEE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAVANNAH, GA, USA (72%) GEORGIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2001 



346 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: Criticized on Office Rent, Clinton Looks to Harlem 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI with MARC LACEY 

 BODY:
Faced with a barrage of criticism for his decision to rent lavish office space in Manhattan, former President Bill Clinton yesterday abandoned his plans to move into the 56th floor of a Midtown skyscraper. He is now looking uptown, at more modest space on Harlem's main shopping boulevard, with equally panoramic views.
 Officials at the General Services Administration, which oversees office space for former presidents, said yesterday that Mr. Clinton's office had notified them that he was no longer interested in Carnegie Hall Tower, where he had planned to rent the 56th floor for $738,700 a year. 
 Yesterday morning, Mr. Clinton's staff met with the owners of a newly renovated office building at 55 West 125th Street, between Lenox and Fifth Avenues, and toured the vacant top floor of the 14-story building. The asking rent for the 7,000-square-foot space is $30 a square foot, compared with $89 at Carnegie Hall Tower. The total annual rent would be $210,000. 
Karen Tramontano, Mr. Clinton's chief of staff, toured several sites in Harlem yesterday before settling on the 125th Street one, a Clinton aide said. The General Services Administration will begin lease negotiations as early as today, the aide said, and the Secret Service will begin inspecting it immediately.
The building is owned by the Cogswell Realty Group, which recently installed new elevators, a marble lobby and a new heating system in what may be the best privately owned office building in Harlem. Mr. Clinton would still have panoramic views of Central Park and Midtown as well as the George Washington Bridge to the north.
His office would be two blocks from the landmark Apollo Theater, rather than next door to Carnegie Hall. Instead of eating caviar at the Russian Tea Room or pastrami at the Carnegie Deli, the former president would have the choice of Bayou, a highly regarded Cajun Creole restaurant; the Lenox Lounge; or the new Starbucks at Lenox Avenue and 125th Street.
His neighbors in the 125th Street building would be Marine recruiters, Internal Revenue Service agents and social workers instead of Barry Diller, the chairman of USA Networks; Steve Case of AOL Time Warner; and the movie producer Robert Benton. Those agencies and executives lease space at Carnegie Hall Tower, 152 West 57th Street.
But Harlem might feel more like home. Even at his lowest points, Mr. Clinton has always received a warm welcome there. An aide to the former president said it was not lost on Mr. Clinton that African-Americans had stood by him throughout his presidency. The building is in an economic empowerment zone that he helped create during his first term.
"The president wanted to be a good neighbor in a neighborhood that wanted him to be a part of it," said Julia Payne, a spokeswoman for Mr. Clinton.
"It was never about the view of Central Park," she said. "It was about the work he wants to do. He will continue to work on economic issues and developing new markets, and what better place than Harlem?"
Officials in Harlem were clearly ecstatic at the possibility. "I'm very optimistic and hopeful that the president is prepared to say yes," said Representative Charles B. Rangel, a Manhattan Democrat who organized the meeting yesterday. "It's not done until he says so. But I expect he will express his decision by morning."
Representative Ernest R. Istook, Republican of Oklahoma and chairman of the House Appropriations subcommittee that oversees the budgets for former presidents, was pleased by the sudden turnabout. He has been the chief critic of Mr. Clinton's decision to rent space in a lavish office tower at an annual rent that he said was more than the other presidents' office rents combined.
"I hope this will be a much more reasonable price for the American taxpayer," Mr. Istook said in a statement released last night. "And I know Harlem will be proud to have another Globetrotter. I'm pleased Mr. Clinton has listened to what the public was saying, and I know we'll all be just as interested in the new details."
But Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson, Democrat of Texas and chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus, said the uproar over Mr. Clinton's office space was motivated more by hatred for the former president than by the interests of taxpayers.
"I think it was the same old anti-Clinton attitude that objected to his being in Midtown Manhattan," she said. "I highly resented the criticism. One thing is sure: Going to Harlem, he will be welcome. Harlem and the rest of the country benefited from this president."
Carnegie Hall Tower is one of a score of premier office towers in Manhattan, where rents are $100 a square foot or more because of their locations, views and amenities. Carnegie Hall Tower offers tenants a lush marble lobby, etched glass, wood-paneled offices, blue-chip tenants and spectacular views.
The average commercial rent in Midtown is about $61 a square foot, although rents at the top 65 buildings are closer to $82, according to CB Richard Ellis, a real estate brokerage firm.
H. Henry Elghanayan, whose Rockrose Development company owns Carnegie Hall Tower, said he was sorry to see Mr. Clinton depart. The former president signed a lease for the 56th floor about two weeks ago, but was awaiting final approval from the General Services Administration. 
The pending lease became ensnared in politics when Mr. Istook objected to the cost, which his office estimated at $811,000, which is higher than the figure given by Manhattan real estate brokers.
"I'm sorry that he has been engulfed by scandals," Mr. Elghanayan said. "But on balance, I think he was good for America. And I think presidents of the United States are entitled to good office space in what is now his hometown."
One real estate executive said Rockrose had already lined up another tenant for Mr. Clinton's space at a higher rent.
Some real estate brokers in New York, the most expensive market in the country, were somewhat puzzled by the uproar. "It was much ado about nothing," said John P. Maher, senior vice president of CB Richard Ellis. "If you want the former president to have first-class space in Midtown Manhattan, which is where he belongs, it's hard to get it for less than $80 a square foot."
Aby Rosen, president of RFR Holding, who showed the Clintons space for $130 a square foot in his landmark Seagram Building on Park Avenue, said: "The man served for eight years and did a great job. He should get great space."
But another top executive, a rare Democrat in the real estate industry, took a dim view of Mr. Clinton's original choice. 
"It was a disgrace," said the executive, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "It was space for a tycoon. And he's a Democrat."
Mr. Istook complained that Mr. Clinton was about to sign a lease that would cost far more than any other former president's lease. Ronald Reagan rents nearly 6,000 square feet of office space for $285,000 in Los Angeles. That does not include 3,560 feet for Secret Service agents. The rent on Gerald Ford's space in Mirage, Calif., is $99,000 a year.
As the controversy heated up, Mr. Clinton said his foundation would pick up $300,000 of the annual cost at Carnegie Hall Tower. But the issue would not abate.
Mr. Rangel said he called Mr. Clinton's office over the weekend, suggesting that the former president consider relocating to Harlem. After all, Mr. Rangel had sponsored the empowerment zone legislation that Mr. Clinton signed, fostering economic development in Harlem.
"I was pleasantly surprised when he gave me a call over the weekend," Mr. Rangel said. "He didn't just express interest, he was enthusiastic about it."
Arthur R. Stern, chief executive of Cogswell Realty, declined to discuss the possibility of leasing space to the president. The two sides are expected to negotiate over the cost of renovating the 14th floor.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 14, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about former President Bill Clinton's decision to negotiate for office space in a Harlem building misstated the name of the California city where former President Gerald Ford has an office. It is Rancho Mirage, not simply Mirage.

GRAPHIC: Photo: This newly renovated Harlem office building on 125th Street between Lenox and Fifth Avenues is two blocks from the Apollo Theater. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B4) Map of Manhattan highlighting 55 West 125th St.: The annual rent is $210,000 for 7,000 square feet on 125th Street. (pg. B4) Chart: "New Renov, Priced Right, Avail Immed!"President Clinton is looking into a Harlem address for his office after pulling out of a Midtown deal. Here is how the two buildings compare. CARNEGIE HALL TOWER152 W. 57th St. STORIES: 60OFFICE RENT: $738,700 for 8,300 square feet on the 56th floorSECURITY: 24/7COMMUTE FROM CHAPPAQUA: About an hour via Metro-North and subwayVIEW: Looks across Central Park to the George Washington Bridge and south to the Statue of LibertyNEARBY DINING THEATERS: Petrossian, Russian Tea Room, Carnegie Hall. 55 WEST 125TH STREET STORIES: 14OFFICE RENT: $210,000 for 7,000 square feet on the top floorSECURITY: 24/7COMMUTE FROM CHAPPAQUA: About 40 minutes on Metro-NorthVIEW: Looks across Central Park to the Carnegie Hall Tower and Midtown over the rooftops of HarlemNEARBY DINING THEATERS: Bayou, Sylvia's, Apollo Theater. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RESTAURANTS (87%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RENTING AND LEASING 

COMPANY: AOL INC (63%); CARNEGIE HALL CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (84%); GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (84%) GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION; SECRET SERVICE; COGSWELL REALTY GROUP 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (63%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (63%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); STEVE CASE (51%); BARRY DILLER (50%) CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BAGLI, CHARLES V; LACEY, MARC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) HARLEM (NYC); NEW YORK CITY 

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2001 



347 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: After People Power 

BYLINE:  By Mark C. Medish; Mark C. Medish was deputy assistant secretary of the treasury and a senior director of the National Security Council in the Clinton administration.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In 1997, as an American official invited to Serbia to address a conference on economic reform, I described Belgrade as "the Pyongyang of Europe." The speech was, of course, condemned by Slobodan Milosevic. Now that Belgrade is free from his rule, the question is what kind of place it will choose to be. Despite the peaceful triumph of "people power" last October, there are lingering doubts about Serbia's future direction.
 Serbia's choices are important for both the Balkans and the United States because Serbia remains central to the stability of southeastern Europe. The West so far has responded appropriately to the election of Vojislav Kostunica by removing sanctions and providing limited aid. But it has also made clear that further financial support depends on how Belgrade navigates a series of political and economic choices. 
 The first test is dealing with Mr. Milosevic and other Serbs indicted by the international tribunal in The Hague as war criminals. Finding the right Elba for an ex-dictator is never easy. The desire for justice for past sins can compete with the need to move forward. In Serbia, this problem is complicated by the presence of a sizable nationalist minority that still sees Serbs, not Bosnians or Kosovars, as the main victims of the Balkan wars. Some even see Mr. Milosevic as a traitor for losing.
The question for the West is what might be reasonably expected of President Kostunica. Mr. Milosevic will ultimately have to face international war crimes charges. But it is not unreasonable, for the time being, for Mr. Kostunica to show the world that he can make Mr. Milosevic answer to the rule of law by prosecuting him at home on domestic charges, while arresting as many of the other indictees as possible. These immediate steps need not preclude future efforts to prosecute Mr. Milosevic for war crimes.
The second test for Serbia is managing separatism in Kosovo and Montenegro. For Kosovo, Mr. Kostunica must continue to abide by United Nations Resolution 1244, which provides for the interim United Nations administration in Kosovo. He must also use the bully pulpit to dampen nationalist flames, especially in volatile southern Serbia near Kosovo. Ultimately, a South Africa-style truth and reconciliation commission, launched by Mr. Kostunica, may be the only way to begin healing the wounds of ethnic strife.
Montenegro -- a republic of 600,000 -- poses a special challenge for Serbia and the United States. Indeed, history may accuse us of having tacitly raised Montenegro's expectations of independence when it was convenient for us to encourage and support Montenegrin defiance of Mr. Milosevic. Now, with a democratic government in Belgrade, our only legitimate demand is that Serbia and Montenegro, the two parts of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, find a peaceful way to define their political and economic relationship.
Finally, Mr. Kostunica's government must convincingly chart a course away from the corruption that epitomized the Milosevic regime. Removing Mr. Milosevic's cronies from positions of influence will take courage, but it is crucial to continued Western economic aid. The recent dismissal of the old-guard customs chief was a good start. 
The Serbian economy is less than half its 1989 size. Due to war and international sanctions, Serbia has largely missed the market transformations that have occurred in most of Eastern Europe. Mr. Kostunica, who has assembled a strong team of economic reformers, must quickly establish effective monetary and fiscal policies to stabilize the economy, normalize relations with the international financial institutions, rebuild war-damaged infrastructure, and try to stimulate investment to create jobs. In a country with 40 percent unemployment, there may be nowhere to go but up. But failure to deliver results soon may well threaten Serbia's political stability.
A successful democratic and economic transition in Serbia requires the right choices by Belgrade to achieve support from the United States and Europe. Encouraging Serbia's new direction is the only sure way of drawing down American military forces in the region, as the Bush administration hopes to do. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); WAR CRIMES (89%); INDICTMENTS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (76%); TRENDS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (67%); CORRUPTION (67%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%) UNITED NATIONS; NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: MEDISH, MARK C; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN; KOSTUNICA, VOJISLAV (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (94%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (71%) SERBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); MONTENEGRO (95%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (78%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%) SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); MONTENEGRO

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001 



348 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Rose in January After Weak Christmas Results 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 13 

 BODY:
Retail sales picked up in January after a sluggish Christmas shopping season, the government said today in a report showing new signs of life in the sagging economy.
 Total retail sales rose 0.7 percent last month, to $273.27 billion, after gaining an anemic 0.1 percent in December, the Commerce Department reported. 
 Excluding volatile automobile sales, retail sales rose 0.8 percent last month after being flat in December. 
But compared with figures in the month a year earlier, sales were up only 3.5 percent, and that raises red flags for the health of the economy, Commerce Secretary Don Evans said today.
"We cannot count on blue skies and blue-light specials to bolster our economy," he said, adding that this latest report bolsters the need for a tax cut to keep the expansion on track.
Even so, last month's gain in retail sales was higher than expected. Wall Street economists expected total retail sales to rise 0.6 percent, 0.4 percent excluding auto sales.
The report was good news to most economists, coming as it did after a string of data had shown consumer confidence plummeting.
"People are spending, and that should suggest that we are not falling off a cliff into recession," said Bill Cheney, chief economist at John Hancock Financial Services in Boston. But he added that the gain could be reflecting a buying pickup because of discounts after the holidays.
Still, the report showed across-the-board gains in retail spending, a sign the slowing economy could be turning a corner. Consumer spending fuels two-thirds of the economy.
Sales in durable goods, big-ticket items intended to last for several years, increased 0.8 percent in January after being flat in December.
Spending on building materials posted a big increase, gaining 1.1 percent after a 0.8 rise in December.
There was a decline in retail spending at food stores, where spending dropped 0.2 percent last month, after gaining 0.9 percent in December. But consumers picked up their spending at clothing and furniture stores, and in restaurants.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Retail Sales"Total retail sales in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Graph shows figures from August 1999-January 2001.Monthly ChangeJan.: +0.7%Dec.: +0.1Nov.: -0.6 (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (95%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (94%); CHRISTMAS (91%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); RETAILERS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); RECESSION (77%); FURNITURE STORES (74%); RESTAURANTS (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES 

COMPANY: JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (67%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (67%)

PERSON: EVANS, DONALD L (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001 



349 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Chief Executive Compensation Rose 16% Last Year Over '99 

BYLINE:  By REED ABELSON 

 BODY:
The annual pay packages of chief executives continue to soar and now exceed $10 million among the nation's very largest public companies, according to a new survey. 
 Benefiting from a continued abundance of stock options that make up the bulk of their pay, the average compensation for chief executives reached a record $10.9 million in 2000, a 16 percent increase over the previous year, according to the survey by Pearl Meyer & Partners, an executive compensation consultant in New York. 
 "It certainly represents a landmark in executive pay," said Pearl Meyer, which surveyed 51 large companies in a variety of industries last summer as a way of providing an early glimpse into the pay packages that will be disclosed in proxy statements issued by companies in the coming months. 
Chief executives' compensation has more than doubled since 1995, according to Pearl Meyer, when the 50 or so companies surveyed paid an average of $4.4 million, about half of that in cash. 
But while a buoyant stock market and generous awards of stock options have helped push their average pay into eight figures for the first time, chief executives may not be able to look forward to such largess, Ms. Meyer said.
"We may be coming to the end of a golden era," she said. The slowing economy and the downturn in many of these companies' stocks are not yet reflected in the levels of executive pay, she said.
Stock options continue to be the currency of choice, accounting for 60 percent of the compensation packages awarded to chief executives, according to the survey. The average executive received $6.5 million in options, an increase of 28 percent from 1999. The options are valued at one-third of their grant value. 
Companies are continuing to award large grants, Ms. Meyer said, adding that "the megagrant is now standard" rather than the exception. 
The details of proxy statements are expected to reflect how companies are handling significant declines in their stock prices. Executives may have been given options at prices higher than the current stock price, for example, and companies may choose to reprice those options.
"You're going to see more changes in option practices," Ms. Meyer said. 
The use of options is pervasive in the compensation packages of other senior executives, according to the survey, and has reached at least half the total pay for chief financial officers and the like for the first time. 
But companies were also generous with annual bonuses to their chief executives, which rose 20 percent over the last year, to an average of $2 million, according to the survey. Salaries, once the bulk of executive compensation, now account for just 10 percent of pay packages, increasing 4 percent in the last year.
In keeping with the preference for stock options and a move away from performance-based plans, the only portion of executive pay to decline was long-term incentives. Those incentives decreased 16 percent from 1999 and now represent about 12 percent of total compensation, according to the survey.
Despite the marked change in many of these companies' circumstances, any changes in how companies pay their top officers may not be reflected until next year. Companies may choose to shift more of the compensation to cash, for example, or rethink the level of compensation so as not to give executives more in the way of equity. "You are on the cusp of the turn," Ms. Meyer said. 

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Breaking the $10 Million Barrier"The annual pay of the chief executives of America's largest corporations grew last year by an average of about $1.5 million, mostly because of larger stock option grants. 1999TOTAL (All figures in millions): $9.35 1999Salary: $1.09Annual bonus: $1.68Long-term bonus: $1.54Stock options (est. value): $5.04 2000TOTAL (All figures in millions): $10.89 Salary: $1.13Annual bonus: $2.01Long-term bonus: $1.30Stock options (est. value): $6.45 (Source: Pearl Meyer & Partners) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (94%); EXECUTIVES (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); STOCK OPTIONS (91%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (89%); SALARY SURVEYS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (65%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES; STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS 

ORGANIZATION: PEARL MEYER & PARTNERS 

PERSON: ABELSON, REED 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001 



350 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-14

Israel Helicopters Kill Palestinian Security Aide
Two Israeli gunships attacked a car carrying Massoud Ayyad, 53, a senior Palestinian security officer, in northern Gaza. Israel considered Mr. Ayyad a terrorist, and senior officials, including the outgoing prime minister, Ehud Barak, expressed approval of the assassination. Palestinian officials condemned Israel for it. A3

Big Quake Hits El Salvador
An earthquake with a magnitude estimated at 6.6 killed at least 100 people and injured more than 1,000. A6

Kremlin Talks on Arms Shield
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and the German foreign minister, Joschka Fischer, discussed the proposed American missile defense system during Kremlin talks that Mr. Fischer said pointed to new Russian flexibility on the issue. A4

Taiwan Official in Hong Kong
Mayor Ma Ying-jeou of Taipei met with Tung Chee-hwa, Hong Kong's chief executive. Mr. Ma, a rising star in the Nationalist Party, who favors unification, is the highest-ranking Taiwan official to be welcomed by Mr. Tung since the former British colony reverted to Chinese rule in 1997. A14

Colombian Officers Convicted
A retired general, Jaime Humberto Uscategui, and a colonel, Hernan Orozcowere, were found guilty of letting right-wing paramilitary gunmen kill dozens of villagers in 1997. A5

PC's Enter Copyright Battle
European composers and record companies fighting unauthorized copying are opening a new front, with the target the personal computers that do the work. One tactic is the imposition of fees on computer components useful in copying. A1

World Briefing A8

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Alzheimer's Study
Researchers said some factor other than genetics might determine whether susceptible people develop the devastating brain disease. A24

NATIONAL A16-28

Bush Offers Plan to Focus Military on New Weaponry
President Bush said he planned to break with Pentagon orthodoxy and create "a new architecture for the defense of America and our allies," investing in new technologies and weapons rather than making "marginal improvements" for systems in which America's arms industry has invested billions of dollars. A1

Civilians at Sub's Controls
Under close supervision, civilian visitors were at the controls of two important stations aboard the nuclear submarine Greeneville when it surfaced and sank a Japanese fishing vessel off Honolulu, the Navy said. A1

Tokyo is pressing Washington to salvage the sunken ship, in hope of recovering some or all of the bodies of the nine missing Japanese. A20

6 Killed in Army Air Crash
Two Army Black Hawk helicopters crashed on Monday during a nighttime exercise in Hawaii, killing 6 soldiers and injuring 11. A28

Estate Tax's Repeal Opposed
Some 120 wealthy Americans, including Warren E. Buffett, George Soros and the father of William H. Gates, are urging Congress not to repeal taxes on estates and gifts. A1

Pressing for Bush Tax Cut
Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill urged Congress to give swift passage to key elements of President Bush's proposal for a 10-year, $1.6 trillion tax cut as a way to help stave off any further economic downturn. A26

Cuban Money to Pilots' Kin
The Treasury Department was said to have authorized the release of $96.7 million in frozen Cuban funds to the families of three Miami-based pilots shot down by Cuba in 1996. A18

Backing Away From Clinton
UBS Warburg of London, the parent of the American investment firm Paine Webber, has canceled negotiations with former President Bill Clinton over hiring him to give a speech, fearing the company could be drawn into the controversies swirling around Mr. Clinton. A28

U.S. Weighs Pardon Inquiry
Federal prosecutors were said to be deliberating whether to open a criminal inquiry into former President Bill Clinton's pardon of Marc Rich. A28

NEW YORK/REGION B1-11

City Has Lease on Space In Harlem Sought by Clinton
Mayor Giuliani said the city had a lease on the Harlem office space that former President Bill Clinton declared he wanted during a visit to the building. But the mayor said he was willing to negotiate. A1

Terror Witness Cross-Examined
Jamal Ahmed Al-Fadl, a government witness who was once a close aide to Osama bin Laden, testified in the embassy bombings trial that he had proudly worked for Mr. bin Laden against the United States, but later acknowledged telling American agents that Mr. bin Laden "misinterprets certain portions of the Koran to justify violent action." B1

New Phase in Newspaper Wars
Newsday, which quit its New York Newsday operation in 1995, is making new inroads into the city under its new owner, Tribune Company. B1

Neediest Cases B4

EDUCATION B11

OBITUARIES A29

Mayor Beame's Funeral
About 600 people crowded into the Park East Synagogue to pay tribute to Abraham D. Beame. A29

FASHION B12

ARTS E1-16

Academy Award Nominations
"Gladiator" received a dozen nominations, closely followed by 10 nominations for the Chinese-language martial arts fantasy "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon." E1

SPORTS D1-8

Bichon Frise Wins Westminster
Ch. Special Times Just Right!, or J. R. -- a 3-year-old bichon frise -- was named best-in-show at the 125th Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show. D3

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Fed Chairman's Analysis
Alan Greenspan said that while the economy still faced substantial risks, the United States was not in a recession and that the slowdown it is experiencing may prove to be as short as it is sharp. A1

Major stock averages slumped. C11

Investment Alternatives
Fidelity and Charles Schwab, two of the biggest companies in the $7 trillion mutual fund industry, are gearing up to introduce do-it-yourself portfolios for investors who want an alternative to owning mutual funds or individual stocks in traditional brokerage accounts. C1

Napster's Clouded Future
Napster executives scrambled to chart a legal and business future for the online music service a day after it sustained a crippling legal blow. C1

Author Switches Publishers
The best-selling author Michael Crichton has agreed to publish his next two books with the HarperCollins Publishers division of the News Corporation, a disappointment for his longtime publisher, the Knopf Publishing Group of Bertelsmann. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

DINING F1-12

EDITORIAL A30-31

Editorials: Mr. Clinton's next move; a win for intellectual property; peace talks in Colombia.
Columns: Paul Krugman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E12
TV Listings E15
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (85%); ESTATE TAX (84%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); HELICOPTERS (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); ASSASSINATION (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); EARTHQUAKES (76%); TAX LAW (75%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); SHOOTINGS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); COPYRIGHT (71%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (70%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (70%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (69%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); RANKINGS (67%); BRAIN (64%); MARINE SALVAGE (64%); MARINE VESSELS (64%); ARMED FORCES (62%); GIFT TAX (62%); TAX RELIEF (62%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (61%); PRIME MINISTERS (57%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: EHUD BARAK (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); BILL GATES (52%); GEORGE SOROS (50%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) HAWAII, USA (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); HONG KONG (92%); TAIWAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001 



351 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Migrants Plant Pine Trees but Often Pocket Peanuts 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: EL DORADO, Ark. 

 BODY:
Outside the Pine Tree Motel, under the reddish glow of a neon sign, Ruben and 10 other Mexican workers pile into a van at 5:30 a.m. and head to a warehouse an hour away, where they load thousands of pine seedlings into a trailer.
 Then it is back in the van for the long trip to the fields, where the day is spent poking holes in the ground and planting thousands of seedlings. It is not until well after dark that they return to the motel, shoulders aching, boots caked with mud. 
 Ruben is one of more than 15,000 workers, most of them Mexican, who come to the United States each year on temporary visas to plant tens of millions of trees. These modern-day Johnny Appleseeds, whose numbers have more than doubled in the last three years, journey north in the hope of earning more than the $5 a day they earn back home. Federal officials say these migrants are often paid far less than they are due because of widespread violations of wage and hour laws. 
It is these violations that make Ruben and those like him a concern not just for labor groups and the government but also for President Vicente Fox of Mexico, who, when he meets with President Bush on Feb. 16, is expected to press Mr. Bush to expand the number of these workers allowed in the United States and to provide them more protections. 
Traditionally, poor whites have done the work of replanting American forests. In the last 10 years, however, the forestry business, like other industries that depend on unskilled labor, has turned largely to immigrants on temporary visas to do the arduous work. 
Although Mexican migrants plant as far north as Maine and Washington State, they are concentrated in the South. They typically replant fields that were clear-cut months earlier and often work for contractors that plant for big corporations. 
Back in his motel after work, Ruben, who spoke on the condition that his last name not be used, said he regularly worked a 70-hour week but usually made less than $300, which works out to about $4.30 an hour, well below the $5.15 federal minimum wage. "Sometimes it just doesn't seem worth it," he said. "We work hard, and we're not getting much." 
Convinced that wage violations are widespread, lawyers are pressing three class-action lawsuits on behalf of thousands of immigrant forestry workers. The suits are directed against Georgia-Pacific, International Paper and Champion, acquired by International Paper last year, corporations that rely on the contractors for tree planting. 
The contractors say that the workers exaggerate hours. Michael Economopoulos, executive director of the South Eastern Forestry Contractors Association, said, "There are probably abuses out there, as in any industry, but I don't think there are wholesale abuses going on." 
Advocates for the workers disagree. "They're robbing these workers blind," said Mary Bauer, legal director of the Virginia Justice Center. "The number of people involved and the number of violations are beyond anything I've ever seen." 
Labor Department officials, echoing some of the suits' accusations, said companies often flouted record keeping and wage and overtime laws by counting only the hours workers planted and not those spent loading seedlings and driving to the fields. 
The large corporations being sued argue that they are not responsible for the actions of the contractors. "We do not directly employ these seasonal migrant workers," said Jack Cox, a spokesman for International Paper. "We have contractors who employ these workers." 
Federal rules require that tree planters in the H-2B temporary visa program in Arkansas be paid $8.43 an hour and receive time and a half for every hour worked in a week over 40. But tree planters, called pineros in Spanish, and several foremen here in south-central Arkansas, produced pay records showing that the migrants often make less than $5 an hour, when they include the time it takes to pick up the seedlings and drive to the fields. Even though the workers often work 60, 70, even 80 hours in a week, they said, overtime is hardly ever paid. 
"The office often wrote 40 hours, but many times the pineros worked more than 50," said Miguel Lopez, a foreman for a contractor in Arkansas. Though he praised his current employer, Mr. Lopez said he was convinced that a previous contractor he worked for, F & K Enterprises, underpaid its workers. Mr. Lopez made available wage records from F & K showing that no crew member worked more than 40 hours a week, a virtual impossibility, he said, given the nature of the workday. 
Kerry Stanley, an owner of F & K, declined to comment. In documents from the class-action lawsuits, F & K executives said that many workers exaggerated their hours. They also said they told foremen not to work the planters more than 40 hours a week and acknowledged that they never paid overtime. 
The planting companies often recruit their workers by sending foremen to Mexico and running radio commercials there. Though recruiters tell workers that they can make big money, the pineros say, the pay falls far short of expectations.
So does the job itself, workers said. Once they reach the field at daybreak, the pineros fill saddlebags with 800 to 1,000 seedlings. They strap the bags, which weigh 40 pounds, to their waists. Using three-foot-long metal poles, they make thin, six-inch holes in the ground. They bend to place the seedling into the hole, making sure the roots are straight. The holes need to be eight feet apart. A proficient worker can plant six or more trees a minute. 
Lawyers involved in the class-action suits are seeking millions in back pay from employers they accuse of keeping inaccurate records and violating wage and overtime laws. Though the contractors hire the workers directly, the suits are against the large corporations that often own the forested land. The migrants' lawyers contend that the corporations are joint employers and should be held responsible for any wage violations and back pay.
"This is one of the clearest cases of joint employment I've ever seen," said Gregory Schell, a lawyer with Florida Legal Services. "The forestry companies often own the land. They send their foresters to the fields to make sure the planting is done right. They tell the foremen what to do." 
The forestry companies deny responsibility. "In all our contracts with these companies," said Mr. Cox of International Paper, "we have provisions that they have to agree to abide by all applicable labor laws." 
Gregory Guest, a Georgia-Pacific spokesman, said the contractors were the planters' employers. When the company finds contractors not complying with the law, "we take the appropriate action and that can include terminating the contractor." 
One worker staying at the Pine Tree Motel said he feared he might not clear $1,500 for three months' work after expenses. Frustrated, he said he might not return next year.
"Every year they promise us it's going to get better, but it doesn't," he said. "But they know that they can always get new people who don't know what they're getting into." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers planting pine seedlings near Warren, Ark. Many such workers say they labor 70 hours a week. (Spencer Tirey for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (89%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); LITIGATION (87%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); MIGRANT WORKERS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); WORK WEEK (78%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (74%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (72%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (69%); REFUGEES (68%); LAWYERS (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); CLASS ACTIONS (63%) FORESTS AND FORESTRY; MIGRANT LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; WORKING HOURS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; LABOR; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES 

COMPANY: GEORGIA-PACIFIC INTERNATIONAL CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO; GEORGIA-PACIFIC CORP 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) GREENHOUSE, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (94%) MEXICO; SOUTHERN STATES (US)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001 



352 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: METRO BRIEFING 

BYLINE:  Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
 NEW YORK

GARDEN CITY: CAMERAS FOR WATCHING POLICE
In the wake of accusations that several police officers on Long Island forced drivers to undress and that one sexually abused two women, Republican lawmakers in Nassau County said yesterday that they wanted to equip police cars with video cameras to record encounters with the public. They said the cameras would protect the public from rogue officers and protect good officers from false accusations. But the proposal is already unpopular with the police union, which calls the cameras invasive. The decision on whether to install cameras rests with the Nassau County Police Department. Michael Cooper (NYT)

ALBANY: GOVERNOR SEEKS MORE EMERGENCY RESERVES
Gov. George E. Pataki yesterday altered his proposed 2001-2002 budget, proposing a $450 million increase in the state's emergency reserves. The increase acknowledges that more money is available than the governor's office projected when he made his original proposal last month. By calling for the bulk of that money to go into the reserves, Mr. Pataki is seeking to head off attempts by the Legislature to spend it. Richard Perez-Pena (NYT)

QUEENS: OFFICER INJURED IN SCUFFLE
The police say that their crackdown on jaywalking along Queens Boulevard, one of the city's most dangerous streets for pedestrians, is for their own good. One walker apparently disagreed yesterday. Around 4 p.m., when an officer tried to give John Magera, 42, a summons for illegally crossing the boulevard near 80th Street in Kew Gardens, Mr. Magera resisted and fought, and the officer's hand was cut in the scuffle, said Sgt. William Stiles. Mr. Magera, of Jamaica, was charged with assault, disorderly conduct, resisting arrest and jaywalking, Sergeant Stiles said. The officer, whose name was not released, was treated at Jamaica Hospital Medical Center. Andy Newman (NYT)

MANHATTAN: F.D.R. ITEMS ON THE BLOCK
Sixty years after Franklin D. Roosevelt dedicated the nation's first presidential library, in Hyde Park, the institution will be among the bidders when $1.2 million worth of items once owned by Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt go on the auction block at Christie's today. About 3,000 items from the personal collection of John A. Roosevelt, the youngest of the Roosevelts' six children, are to be offered. (AP)

ALBANY: CARDIAC SURVIVAL RATE
The number of patients in New York who die after coronary bypass surgery declined for the third consecutive year in 1998, a new report from the state's Department of Health shows. In 1998, the rate of deaths from the procedure was 2.15 per 100 patients statewide, down from 2.22 in 1997. That is a 39 percent drop since 1989, when the state first began to collect mortality data on bypass surgery. Jennifer Steinhauer (NYT)

ALBANY: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Mayors of New York's four largest upstate cities asked state legislators yesterday to set up redevelopment authorities so their cities could borrow money to help promote new jobs and other economic projects. The mayors asked for $25 million in each of the next four years. Buffalo would get $10 million a year, Rochester $7 million, Syracuse $5 million and Albany $3 million under the terms of the mayors' proposal. (AP)

ALBANY: POWER CHIEF NAMED
Joseph Seymour, the state commissioner of general services for the last four years, was named yesterday by Gov. George E. Pataki to head the New York Power Authority. The authority operates hydroelectric projects at Niagara Falls and on the St. Lawrence River and power-generating facilities at other sites. Mr. Seymour, 53, a former city manager of Peekskill, would succeed Clarence Rappleyea, 67, who retired. (AP)

CONNECTICUT

STAMFORD: BLOOD SHORTAGE EASING
Blood supplies across the state are beginning to increase after reaching a critical low last week, the American Red Cross said. Snowstorms and illnesses like colds and flu had slowed blood collections. Eleven blood drives were canceled after last week's storm, said Lynn Townshend of the American Red Cross Blood Services, which provides blood for the state. (AP)

NEW HAVEN: POLICE REVIEW BOARD
Mayor John DeStefano Jr. said Monday that he would issue an executive order to create a civilian review board to monitor complaints about police officers' conduct. The city is proposing a nine-member board that would also review police internal-affairs unit inquiries. (AP)

HARTFORD: RULING ON MOHEGAN NAME
The tribe that owns and operates the Mohegan Sun Casino in Montville cannot prevent descendants of the Mohegan tribe in New York from using the same name, Connecticut's highest court ruled yesterday. The Mohegan Tribe of Indians of Connecticut had argued that the use of the Mohegan name by the Mohegan Tribe and Nation of New York was an infringement on the Connecticut group's trademark. The argument was unanimously rejected by the State Supreme Court. David M. Herszenhorn (NYT)

NEW JERSEY

TRENTON: UNION EMBEZZLEMENT CHARGED
The former head of the Amtrak police union is scheduled to go on trial March 6 on charges that he embezzled $50,000 in union money to pay for personal travel and a Jeep Grand Cherokee, federal officials said yesterday. The former official, Dennis Chiocchi, was president and secretary-treasurer of the 300-member American Federation of Railroad Police from 1995 to 1998. Mr. Chiocchi, 47, left the force after losing a union re-election bid. Steve Strunsky (NYT)

CALENDAR

Tomorrow

HEARING ON LEGALIZING LOFTS
The New York Assembly has set a hearing on renewing a law that provides benefits like rent stabilization, and on extending the benefits to lofts. Swinging 60's Senior Center, 211 Ainslie Street, Brooklyn, 4 p.m. Information: (518) 455-5537.

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (86%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); ARRESTS (73%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (67%); HEART DISEASE (64%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (64%); LIBRARIES (61%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001 



353 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business Briefing; 
CITY ECONOMY KEEPS GROWING

BYLINE:  By Leslie Eaton 

 BODY:
 New York City's economy ended 2000 on a strong note and continues to outpace the nation's, according to a report issued yesterday by Alan G. Hevesi, the city comptroller. In the last three months of last year, economic growth in the city, as measured by the value of goods and services produced, hit 3.6 percent, versus the national rate of 1.4 percent. 
At the same time, the number of jobs in the city soared and the unemployment rate fell. "But if the national slowdown continues, it is bound to affect the city," Mr. Hevesi said in a statement. "The Federal Reserve's interest rate cuts should help, but the impact may not be felt for a few months." Leslie Eaton

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: HEVESI, ALAN G (COMPTROLLER); EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001 



354 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: MANAGEMENT: Business Students Do an About-Face; 
Recruiters for Banks and Consultants Have Regained the Upper Hand

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN D. GLATER 

 BODY:
Ask business school students what "B2B" and "B2C" stand for these days, and you will probably not hear the same answer you would have a year ago. Then, the dot-com craze was in full throttle, and it seemed everybody wanted to join a "business to business" or "business to consumer" Internet start-up.
 No longer. Those shorthand designations now have a new meaning, said Sonny Dozier, a second-year business school student at Columbia University: "Back to banking, back to consulting." 
 "Interest has definitely swung back in that direction," Mr. Dozier said. 
It was nice while it lasted, but in the minds of many business school students, the Internet party is over. The reasons are not hard to discern: dot-coms are crashing left and right, and the options riches they once promised have mostly evaporated. Moreover, the economy is slowing, making traditional companies seem more like safe harbors than plodding old-economy relics.
Mr. Dozier, for example, says he is considering job offers from telecommunications companies and consulting firms. "I really want to go somewhere that is not going to be stuck in the mud for an extended period of time," he said.
"Clearly, in the kind of market environment that we're in right now," he added, "start-ups are having a lot harder time doing everything."
The about-face in students' career ambitions, which career consultants say is evident not only at Columbia but at business schools across the country, has put recruiters for banks and consulting firms back at center stage after playing understudy to the dot-com stars for the last two years. And they are enjoying the change in their fortunes.
"You don't have people coming to the interview saying, 'Tell me why I should go to Booz-Allen,' " said Reginald Van Lee, managing partner of the New York office of Booz-Allen & Hamilton, a large consulting firm.
Instead, he said, students are showing greater eagerness and knowledge about consulting firms and are accepting job offers more quickly than they did a year ago. McKinsey & Company has noticed a similar trend, according to a company spokesman.
Recruiters for banks also say that recruiting this year is a much lower-stress endeavor than it was last year.
"We have probably seen a doubling of interest," said Caitlin McLaughlin, director of global M.B.A. recruiting at Salomon Smith Barney, a unit of Citigroup. For example, while 60 University of Chicago students came to visit the Salomon Smith Barney office in New York as part of a research and recruitment trip in December 1999, 120 came last December, Ms. McLaughlin said.
"It's interesting how quickly it's turned around," said Robert F. Bonner, director of M.B.A. career management at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. The suddenness of the change makes students' previous infatuation with dot-coms seem almost like an aberration, he said.
"Last year at Wharton was truly the upside-down year," Mr. Bonner said.
Of course, no one knew dot-coms would fall so far so fast, least of all banks and consulting firms. As a result, some of them overhired last year, creating a double bind for the latest crop of graduating students: a shortage of opportunities in both employment worlds.
Indeed, a few consulting firms have already reduced the number of candidates they are willing to interview at elite business schools, though career-planning officers were unwilling to name names.
And one midsize firm, Mercer Management Consulting, canceled interviews entirely and said it would not be hiring any summer interns this year. Like other consulting firms, Mercer views summer interns, usually students between their first and second years in business school, as a talent pool for future hires.
But for now, Mercer has no need to add to its staff. That is because wherever it has turned recently -- to last year's crop of summer interns, to M.B.A. students last fall and to executives in other industries -- more candidates accepted job offers than were expected to.
"We felt it was prudent to pull back from the summer program this year," said Cathy Baker, director of recruiting at Mercer. "We have, basically, a very large class of new full-time hires."
Such a conservative approach to recruiting is not without risk. If Mercer does not have any summer interns in 2001, the firm will not have the usual class ready to start full-time work in the fall of 2002 -- so guessing wrong now about the direction of the economy can have consequences almost two years in the future. 
"That's the challenge of the recruiting cycle for all professional services firms," including consultants and law firms, Ms. Baker said.
Making more hires would also be a risky course for a consulting firm because if business continued to slow, the firm would be forced to choose between letting profits fall or laying people off and thereby jeopardizing future recruiting efforts.
The slowing economy has had a more direct impact on the recruiting strategy at the Viant Corporation, one of the younger consulting firms that grew rapidly by providing both Web design and strategic advice to companies building online businesses, but which has recently announced revenue declines and layoffs. Viant has reduced the number of schools where it recruits and the number of offers of employment it makes, said Amy E. Ward, enterprise recruiting manager at the company.
"Last year we went to a lot of schools to recruit talent," Ms. Ward said. "We were going after quantity as well as quality." This year, she said, the firm is looking to make fewer offers.
Viant's strategy has been to focus on a smaller number of universities, where it is possible to recruit both M.B.A. students and graduates with advanced degrees in science and technology. For example, Viant continues to recruit heavily at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Ms. Ward said.
For all the economic changes of late, from slowing growth to slumping stock markets, the attitudes of people have evolved even more quickly, career counselors at business schools say.
The allure of dot-coms was exaggerated last year, according to Glenn Sykes, director of M.B.A. career services at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business. In last year's graduating class at Chicago of more than 500 business school students, only 14 went to dot-coms, he said.
"It was talk," Mr. Sykes said. "It was reading things in the press."
Even so, the hype surrounding those who did go to dot-coms made their classmates think that if they got an offer for a high-paying job in a traditional field, they could take it or leave it.
Now, the students are much less overconfident, while banks and consulting firms are acting more self-assured. At Chicago, students must bid on interview slots, he said, and they are displaying a much stronger interest than last year in the big consulting firms and investment banks.
"Students certainly are not talking to us about pursuing dot-com job searches," he said. As a result, he said, the traditional "firms are feeling powerful again."
Regina Resnick, director of M.B.A. career services at Columbia, agreed. "The psychology has changed," she said. "The recruiters are definitely feeling more confident in terms of their ability to fill any position they have."
An informal poll of students at Columbia showed a widespread preference for the old-fashioned career route. "The interests here tend toward banking and financial services," said Ntiedo Etuk, 25, a first-year student. In the next few weeks, Mr. Etuk will have to decide where he will work this summer, an important decision because summer internships, most students hope, lead to offers of permanent employment after graduation. 
Mr. Etuk said he had not ruled out dot-coms, but he was dubious. "It hasn't been proven to me that pure Internet plays necessarily work," he said.
Heather Hopkins, 29, a second-year student at Columbia, was equally skeptical. Ms. Hopkins said she was weighing job offers from seven large companies, including several consulting firms. "I wanted something that I knew was going to be around for a while," she said.
The bottom line for many students is job security. "My risk profile has become significantly more conservative," said Michael Preis, 27, a second-year student at Columbia. At an Internet company, he continued, "there's no guarantee that you'll have a job a month from now," and without a job, paying off student loans becomes difficult.
Mr. Bonner of Wharton thinks students may be overreacting. "There are a lot of great, viable, small, growth companies out there," he said, but in students' minds, "this year, almost no start-up is a good one."
"We've hit two years of extremes," Mr. Bonner said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Columbia Business School students recently attended a recruitment session, led by the consulting firm Grant Thornton. This year, students say, they are hoping to land jobs in established traditional fields instead of dot-com start-ups.; Regina Resnick, director of M.B.A. career services at Columbia Business School, said, "the recruiters are definitely feeling more confident." (Photographs by Carol Halebian for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Bernard Goldband of Grant Thornton at Columbia recently. Some consulting firms overhired last year and have fewer positions available. (Carol Halebian for The New York Times)(pg. C8) Chart: "Dot-Com Dropouts"Recruiting by Internet companies at leading business schools soared last year, but is expected to fall sharply as the industry contracts. CHICAGO GSBCompanies making job offers to students 1998-99CONSULTING: 50INVESTMENT BANKING: 68DOT-COMS: 6 1999-2000CONSULTING: 50INVESTMENT BANKING: 62DOT-COMS: 33 COLUMBIA BUSINESS SCHOOLCompanies recruiting on campus 1998-99INTERNET: --START-UPS: 39 1999-2000INTERNET: --START-UPS: 310 STANFORD BUSINESS SCHOOLCompanies recruiting on campus 1998-99CONSULTING: 41INVESTMENT BANKING: 61HIGH-TECH & SERVICES: 63 1999-2000CONSULTING: 37INVESTMENT BANKING: 80HIGH-TECH & SERVICES: 73(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); STARTUPS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TRENDS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); INTERVIEWS (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; HIRING AND PROMOTION; BUSINESS SCHOOLS; BANKS AND BANKING; CONSULTANTS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%) UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO; STANFORD UNIVERSITY; COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: GLATER, JONATHAN D 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001 



355 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: Germany Weighs Overhaul of 'Consensus' Capitalism 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Feb. 13 

 BODY:
The debate may sound tedious and even trivial. But behind a fog of discourse over arcane rules, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder is about to decide an issue at the heart of efforts to overhaul and modernize Germany's "consensus" approach to capitalism.
 The issue is what Germans call mitbestimmung, or co-determination, and it embodies the legally enshrined practice of letting workers have a direct say in the management of their companies. When Germany's economy soared in the decades after World War II, co-determination and cooperation between unions and management became a symbol of enlightened business. But when the economy floundered through much of the last decade, it suddenly seemed to represent inflexibility and the inability to compete. 
 After months of background political maneuvering, Mr. Schroder is expected to announce on Wednesday whether he will support or water down an expansion of current laws. His labor minister, Walter Riester, has drawn up the proposed expansion of workers' rights on the conviction that the law needs to catch up with changes in German industry. But his economics minister, Werner Muller, is convinced that the plan will damage German growth and has threatened to resign if it becomes law in its current form. 
Underlying the battle is the core question of flexibility. Combatants on both sides agree that German companies have found ways to reduce co-determination by hiring more temporary workers and farming out more work to outside companies. The fight is between those employers, who view this as a good thing, and Germany's big unions, which view it as deprivation of workers' rights.
American companies have nothing that even resembles co-determination. Under German law, large companies are required to give workers' representatives a third of the seats on their supervisory boards. Most large and medium-sized companies are also required to recognize employee-elected "workers councils," which have the legal right to veto many management decisions and the right to be informed on matters of corporate strategy and conditions.
Under current law, a workers council can block decisions on hiring and firing workers. It must approve employee transfers from one job toanother, as well as management requests for workers to put in extra hours. Workers councils also have the right to propose changes on many policies and the right to be informed in advance if a company plans to reduce its work force. If a company does intend to eliminate jobs, the workers council has the right to approve the plan for compensating dismissed employees.
To outsiders, the proposed law seems absurdly modest in comparison with the battle surrounding it. One major change would be to reduce the size of companies that are required to pay for at least one full-time employee to serve as head of the workers councils. Current law applies to companies with at least 301 workers, and the new law would apply to companies with only 200. A second basic change would be to simplify the rules under which workers at very small companies hold an election to create a workers council in the first place.
Yet the changes were enough to provoke a very public opposition from Mr. Muller, the economics minister, who listed 26 items in the proposal that he wanted to change. Union and industry representatives say most of those issues are negotiable, but not the top two. Ten days ago, Mr. Muller and his aides let it be known that he might well quit if the plan is not modified substantially.
The conflict between cabinet ministers mirrors Mr. Schroder's own divided allegiances. As leader of the Social Democratic Party, Mr. Schroder owed his election in large part to support from Germany's powerful labor unions. Mr. Riester was himself the vice chairman of I. G. Metall, which represents workers throughout the automobile and machine-manufacturing industries and is the world's biggest trade union. But Mr. Schroder, who has modeled himself after former President Bill Clinton and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, has taken pride in pushing through pro-business measures like tax reform.
The proposals on co-determination are explosive in part because business groups and economists, including those at the German central bank, have been arguing for years that the country desperately needs to unravel the maze of regulation that governs the work force. In expanding co-determination, Mr. Schroder would appear to be heading in the opposite direction.
But the proposals also strike at a fundamental changes that swept through German industry. German companies in the machine and metal-working industries have eliminated more than 400,000 union jobs in the last decade. Companies have automated as much of their production as possible. They have set up factories in Asia and the formerly Communist countries of Central Europe. And they have farmed out work to companies that are small enough to avoid setting up workers councils.
"This is not about strengthening co-determination; this is about securing the status quo," said Jorg Ferrando, an official at I.G. Metall who oversees work-council issues for small- and midsize companies. "We have recognized that firms are becoming smaller, as a result of breaking up larger companies and from outsourcing. So if we want to have democracy in the workplace, we have to change the rules to make them appropriate for the times."
The background becomes clear at small industrial companies like Casco Schoeller, a Frankfurt-based producer of cigarette lighters and other accessories for automobiles.
After running huge losses 10 years ago, thanks to a deep downturn in the American auto market, the company cut its work force by selling off some of its product lines and automating as much as it could. The work force has declined from nearly 1,000 people in 1990 to 150 today.
But it has done so in part by outsourcing work. Manfred Rath, Casco Schoeller's managing director, said the company used temporary workers as well as "leased workers," which are employees who work on the corporate premises but are employed by an outside company. It also farms out work to what Germans call an on-demand work bench, a company that supplies the workers for fairly simple tasks while the manufacturer supplies the equipment and tools.
Even though Casco Schoeller is too small to have to free up an employee for full-time work as head of the workers council, it still has a council and must get approval for many of its personnel decisions. "It fundamentally reaches into all areas of the company," said Mr. Rath, thumbing through a 500-page guide to the intricacies of co-determination law. "A workers council is absolutely necessary, if it actually functions as a council for the welfare of the company. But when it functions as the long arm of the labor unions, which it often does, it can be frightfully difficult."
Wilfried Uhrig, head of the company's workers council, said he hardly felt like a powerful force within the company. Having watched the company's work force dwindle to a fraction of its former size, he appeared more concerned about preserving the few jobs left. "As a result of the economic pressures from globalization, the rights of co-determination are extremely hard to exercise," he said. "It is hard to stand up for your rights because you are always worried about losing work to outside companies or simply not having new products being made here."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Manfred Rath, the managing director of Casco Schoeller, a maker of auto parts, said his company has had problems with federal work rules. (Harald Schroder for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); DISMISSALS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); OUTSOURCING (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); APPROVALS (73%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%) LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LABOR ROLE IN MANAGEMENT; ORGANIZED LABOR 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (90%) SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR); MULLER, WERNER; RIESTER, WALTER (MIN); ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001 



356 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Fall After Greenspan Hedges Odds of a Rate Cut

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stock prices moved lower yesterday after Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, suggested in Senate testimony that economic conditions did not warrant aggressive cuts in interest rates.
 In his remarks, Mr. Greenspan played down the risk of a recession and confirmed the view that the economy was in the midst of an inventory correction, in which manufacturers cut production and retailers curb purchasing to respond to a slowdown in sales. 
 His comments seemed to dash hopes the Fed would move to lower short-term interest rates before the next meeting of its policy makers in late March. "He made it clear that if the risks continue to fall on the downside, the Fed has more room to lower interest rates," said Thomas M. McManus, chief equity strategist at Banc of America Securities. "But he did not give the market any confidence of an intermeeting cut."
Stock prices gained in early trading, mainly because of a report showing that January retail sales were stronger than expected. But market gauges began to deteriorate by early afternoon as traders and investors digested Mr. Greenspan's remarks.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 43.45 points, or 0.4 percent, to 10,903.32. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 11.51 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,318.80. And the Nasdaq composite index slumped 61.94 points, or 2.5 percent, to 2,427.72. 
"If you are a prudent investor, you can take some comfort from Greenspan's view that the economy is not unraveling," said Jonathan Olesky, head of block trading at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "But the market was willing to trade an unraveling economy for more rate cuts."
About as many stocks rose in price as those that fell on the New York Stock Exchange. Trading volume was slightly more than one billion shares on the Big Board. 
Drug stocks, led by Pfizer, contributed to the weakness in the Dow and S.& P. 500. 
Pfizer fell $1.09, to $45.03, after regulators asked the company to withhold an experimental drug from patients. Merck, a Dow component, dropped $2.23, to $80.75. And Bristol-Myers Squibb declined $2.12, to $63.04.
Big technology companies like Intel, Cisco Systems, JDS Uniphase and Brocade Communications Systems were among the big Nasdaq losers. 
Intel fell $2.13, to $32.44, after an analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston downgraded his rating on the shares. Cisco slipped $1.06, to $28.50. JDS Uniphase fell $2.13, to $38.50. And Brocade, a manufacturer of switches that link computer servers and data-storage systems, fell $9.56, to $53.44. 
Applied Materials, the semiconductor maker, was also punished. Shares fell $2.75, to $41.25. After the market closed, the company reported fourth-quarter earnings that beat lowered forecasts. In after-hours trading, the stock was quoted at $41.50, up 25 cents a share. --------------------

Treasury Prices Mixed
By Reuters
Bond prices were mixed yesterday after Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said the economy faced near-term risks to growth but was not in recession and should recover by the end of the year.
Treasuries, which had been bracing for a much more dour economic prognosis in Mr. Greenspan's semiannual report to Congress, gave up some ground as dealers bet the Fed might not need to cut interest rates as sharply as some had forecast.
The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 4/32, to 99 17/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.06 percent, from 5.04 percent on Monday.
The 30-year bond rose 2/32 , to 99 14/32. Its yield fell to 5.41 percent, from 5.42 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (79%); INVENTORIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); RETAILERS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (67%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (64%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (62%); NETWORK SERVERS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (64%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (53%); PFIZER INC (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); INTEL CORP (52%); JDS UNIPHASE CORP (51%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (51%); BROCADE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (64%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); MS (NYSE) (56%); BMY (NYSE) (53%); PFZ (LSE) (53%); PFEB (BRU) (53%); PFE (NYSE) (53%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%); JDU (TSX) (51%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (51%); CSGN (SWX) (51%); CS (NYSE) (51%); BRCD (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (64%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (53%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (93%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); GILPIN, KENNETH N 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001 



357 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
Doing the Wrong Thing

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
Three weeks ago Alan Greenspan, in his now-famous testimony to the Senate Budget Committee, gave decisive aid and comfort to the advocates of huge, irresponsible tax cuts. Rumor has it that Mr. Greenspan himself was taken aback by the feeding frenzy unleashed by that testimony, and that he is now engaged in a backdoor campaign to limit the damage. (Damage to the nation, or to himself? Good question.) The Medley Report, a newsletter on economic affairs, says that "many Congressional Democrats have heard Mr. Greenspan -- or his aides -- tell them that he actually favors something like $1 trillion in total tax cuts rather than $1.6 trillion."
 But if those rumors are true, Mr. Greenspan's performance yesterday, in his first official testimony since he let the genie out of the bottle, was a profile in cowardice. Again and again he was offered the opportunity to say something that would help rein in runaway tax-cutting; each time he evaded the question, often replying by reading from his own previous testimony. He declared once again that he was speaking only for himself, thus granting himself leeway to pronounce on subjects far afield of his role as Federal Reserve chairman. But when pressed on the crucial question of whether the huge tax cuts that now seem inevitable are too large, he said it was inappropriate for him to comment on particular proposals. 
 In short, Mr. Greenspan defined the rules of the game in a way that allows him to intervene as he likes in the political debate, but to retreat behind the veil of his office whenever anyone tries to hold him accountable for the results of those interventions.
Meanwhile, he dug himself deeper into an intellectual hole. Mr. Greenspan's argument for tax cuts goes like this: If you believe the surplus projections, within about six years the federal government will pay off all its debt to the public. Thereafter it will have to accumulate claims on the private sector -- and that could lead to a politicization of the financial markets. So we must cut taxes soon to dissipate much of the projected surplus. 
But does Mr. Greenspan even believe his own argument? Senator Jon Corzine asked the Fed chairman whether we ought not to take a longer view. As Mr. Corzine pointed out, just beyond that magic 10-year horizon the baby boomers will start to place immense demands on Social Security and Medicare, eventually requiring either large tax increases or large cuts in benefits. Mr. Greenspan's reply was not to worry, that by the time the boomers started reaching 65, the Social Security system would be earning lots of interest on its accumulated assets.
Mr. Corzine should have shouted,"What assets?" The direct implication of Mr. Greenspan's argument is that the U.S. government, whose domestic spending consists mainly of programs aimed at retirees, should not make the kind of provision for the future that would be legally required of any corporate pension fund. If the federal government as a whole is not supposed to own private assets, then the assets accumulated by the Social Security and Medicare trust funds must be matched by equal or larger debts on the part of the rest of the government; so the interest that Mr. Greenspan claimed would cushion the burden of supporting the baby boomers would in fact be purely fictitious, a matter of moving money between government accounts. And so the ultimate burden of dealing with an aging population would still fall on future taxpayers, who would have been shortchanged for the sake of a short-run tax cut.
As Mr. Corzine pointed out, there are ways (such as investing in index funds) that public entities can buy private assets without politicizing markets. Mr. Greenspan said, correctly, that such solutions are imperfect; but are they worse than a solution that involves requiring the government to stay deeply in debt in order to provide the trust funds with assets to buy?
Mr. Greenspan faced a test of character yesterday. He didn't have to admit to a mistake; to do the right thing, all he had to do was "clarify" his previous remarks. Yes, the headlines would have said "Greenspan Makes U-Turn." But isn't it worth accepting some brief personal embarrassment in order to head off a looming policy disaster that you yourself have helped create? Apparently not. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); MEDICARE (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); BABY BOOMERS (64%) TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); JON CORZINE (78%); PAUL KRUGMAN (55%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001 



358 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From Greenspan's Testimony 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 13 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, gave his semiannual report on the economy to the Senate Banking Committee today. Following are excerpts from his testimony and from an exchange between Mr. Greenspan and Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, in a question-and-answer session after the testimony, as recorded by Federal News Service Inc.:
 Clearly, some slowing in the pace of spending was necessary and expected if the economy was to progress along a balanced and sustainable growth path. But the adjustment has occurred much faster than most businesses anticipated, with the process likely intensified by the rise in the cost of energy that has drained business and household purchasing power. 
 Purchases of durable goods and investment in capital equipment declined in the fourth quarter. Because the extent of the slowdown was not anticipated by businesses, it induced some backup in inventories, despite the more advanced just-in-time technologies that have in recent years enabled firms to adjust production levels more rapidly to changes in demand. Inventory-sales ratios rose only moderately, but relative to the levels of these ratios implied by their down trend over the past decade, the emerging imbalances appeared considerably larger. . . .
The exceptional weakness so evident in a number of economic indicators toward the end of last year, perhaps in part the consequence of adverse weather, apparently did not continue in January. But with signs of softness still patently in evidence at the time of its January meeting, the F.O.M.C. retained its sense that the risks are weighted toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future. Crucial to the assessment of the outlook and the understanding of recent policy actions is the role of technological change and productivity in shaping near-term cyclical forces as well as long-term sustainable growth.
The prospects for sustaining strong advances in productivity in the years ahead remain favorable. As one would expect, productivity growth has slowed along with the economy. But what is notable is that, during the second half of 2000, output per hour advanced at a pace sufficiently impressive to provide strong support for the view that the rate of growth of structural productivity remains well above its pace of a decade ago. 
Moreover, although recent short-term business profits have softened considerably, most corporate managers appear not to have altered to any appreciable extent their longstanding optimism about the future returns from using new technology. A recent survey of purchasing managers suggests that the wave of new online business-to-business activities is far from cresting. Corporate managers more generally, rightly or wrongly, appear to remain remarkably sanguine about the potential for innovations to continue to enhance productivity and profits. . . .
It is difficult for economic policy to deal with the abruptness of a break in confidence. There may not be a seamless transition from high to moderate to low confidence on the part of businesses, investors and consumers. Looking back at recent cyclical episodes, we see that the change in attitudes has often been sudden. In earlier testimony, I likened this process to water backing up against a dam that is finally breached. The torrent carries with it most remnants of certainty and euphoria that built up in earlier periods. 
This unpredictable rending of confidence is one reason that recessions are so difficult to forecast. They may not be just changes in degree from a period of economic expansion, but a different process engendered by fear. Our economic models have never been particularly successful in capturing a process driven in large part by nonrational behavior. Although consumer confidence has fallen, at least for now it remains at a level that in the past was consistent with economic growth. . . . 
Still, as the F.O.M.C. noted in its last announcement, for the period ahead, downside risks predominate. In addition to the possibility of a break in confidence, we don't know how far the adjustment of the stocks of consumer durables and business capital equipment has come. Also, foreign economies appear to be slowing, which could damp demands for exports; and, although some sectors of the financial markets have improved in recent weeks, continued lender nervousness still is in evidence in other sectors. . . .

SENATOR DODD -- There's nothing -- there's nothing in the way this President Bush's tax-cut proposal is arranged that's going to kick-start an economy, based on by the time it gets implemented, it's usually -- it's outside the time frame when such a kick-start might actually ----

MR. GREENSPAN -- Except for the low probability that the -- any recession that might occur is prolonged. It's only under those conditions that I envisage it to be an insurance premium, in effect, because we use insurance for low probability events and, in that regard, it would act positively. But aside from that, I have not been able to find a useful means of employing it to fend off a recession. In other words, if a recession is going to happen -- and I must say to you, it's not happened yet -- it's very unlikely to be affected one way or the other by what tax policy is going to be because the determination of a trigger as to when -- I shouldn't use the word "trigger" -- the determination of the point at which the markets determine whether we're flattening out or stabilizing or falling, that's way before the implementation of any tax cut that I can envisage happening.

Q. And you haven't changed -- I mean, the definition of when a recession is occurring, is it still the classical definition of the two quarters, or ----

A. It's roughly that. The only difficulty that you're going to have in these types of definitions is that when somebody examines when the recession began, it's usually well before the economy actually breaks down. In other words, the economy will often start moving lower and a goodly -- a great deal of the time, will then start back up.
And so that particular peak will never be discussed as the peak of a business cycle. But it goes down and continues down, you only recognize that you're in a recession well off the peak. But in retrospect, it'll always be that the beginning of a recession is supposedly at that peak. My argument is that indeed we weren't really in a recession in that short period. It's only when the break in confidence occurs that any meaningful definition of a recession is there. But that is not the usual definition. The usual definition, as you indicated, is any two quarters of negative economic growth. 

Q. Right. And we are not in a recession.

A. At the moment, we are not.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INVENTORIES (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); DURABLE GOODS (76%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (74%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); B2B ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (73%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); DODD, CHRISTOPHER J (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001 



359 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
U.S. Is Not in a Recession, Greenspan Tells Senators
While warning that the economy still faces substantial risks, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said that the United States was not in a recession and that the slowdown it is experiencing could be as short as it is sharp.
 Testifying before the Senate Banking Committee, Mr. Greenspan did not directly address whether the central bank is likely to continue with its campaign of aggressive rate cuts, but his analysis of economic conditions suggested that further reductions are likely. Page A1. 

Stock prices moved lower on Mr. Greenspan's remarks. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 43.45 points, or 0.4 percent, to 10,903.32. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 11.51 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,318.80. And the Nasdaq composite index slumped 61.94 points, or 2.5 percent, to 2,427.72. C11.

Some Rich People Back Estate Tax
More than 120 wealthy Americans, including Warren E. Buffett, George Soros and the father of William H. Gates, are urging Congress not to repeal taxes on estates and gifts. A1.

Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill urged Congress to give swift passage to key elements of President Bush's proposal for a 10-year, $1.6 trillion tax cut. A26.

Railroad to Split Into 5 Companies
Canadian Pacific announced plans to split itself into five publicly traded companies. Under the breakup plan, stockholders will receive the 86 percent of PanCanadian Petroleum that Canadian Pacific owns and all of the Canadian Pacific Railway, CP Ships and Fording Coal. Canadian Pacific Hotels will be the only significant holding to remain part of the parent company. Shares of Canadian Pacific closed at $37.45, up $3.51. C7.

Chief Executive Pay Still Rising
The annual pay packages of chief executives continue to soar and now exceed $10 million among the nation's very largest public companies, according to a new survey. C2.

Explorer Deadly When Hitting Cars
A federal study of how vehicles interact in crashes has found that Ford Explorers seem to be especially deadly to the occupants of cars they hit, even compared with other midsize sport utility vehicles. C7.

F.D.A. Warns Ocean Spray on Site
The Food and Drug Administration has warned Ocean Spray Cranberries to cease making unapproved health claims about its juices on the company's Web site. C11.

No Second Chances on Live TV
Michael Gelman, executive producer of "Live With Regis," said when things go awry during the live television show and Regis Philbin, the host, grumbled and complained, he did not take it personally. "I get letters from viewers saying they feel sorry for me because of all the on-camera abuse I get. It's hardly the case. But there is that 5 percent of the time when my feelings are indeed hurt and I want to blurt out, 'Wait a minute.' But that would be out of character." The Boss. C8.

Orange Stock Slides on First Day
Even after being marked down sharply, the stock of Orange, the wireless unit of France Telecom, fell flat in its first day of trading in London and Paris and closed below its offering price. World Business, Section W.

McCain Plans Passenger Rights Bill
Having blocked a passenger rights bill for air travelers in 1999, Senator John McCain, chairman of the Commerce Committee, said that he would soon introduce his own measure. A28.

New Version of Windows Introduced
Stung by slowing personal-computer sales and continuing antitrust battles, Microsoft introduced a new version of Windows. C10.

Retail Sales Rose 0.7% in January
Retail sales rose 0.7 percent in January, above expectations, after a sluggish holiday shopping season, the government said. C8.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,903.32 down 43.45Nasdaq composite -- 2,427.72 down 61.9410-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.06% up 0.02The euro -- $0.9203 down 0.0106The dollar -- 116.61 down 0.94 Graph shows Canadian Pacific share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ESTATE TAX (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); GIFT TAX (72%); TAX LAW (72%); TAX RELIEF (72%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); WEB SITES (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY LTD (54%)

TICKER: CP (TSX) (54%); CP (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (54%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (91%); GEORGE SOROS (57%); BILL GATES (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); WARREN BUFFETT (51%); REGIS PHILBIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001 



360 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: GREENSPAN UPBEAT ON THE ECONOMY 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 13 

 BODY:
While warning that the economy still faces substantial risks, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said today that the United States was not in a recession and that the slowdown it was experiencing could prove to be as short as it is sharp.
 Testifying to a Congressional committee less than two hours after the government reported that retail sales in January were much stronger than expected, Mr. Greenspan said the "exceptional weakness so evident in a number of economic indicators toward the end of last year" had apparently not carried fully into the new year. 
 "At the moment, we are not," Mr. Greenspan said when asked if the economy was in recession. 
Mr. Greenspan did not directly address whether the central bank was likely to continue with its campaign of aggressive interest rate reductions. The Fed cut rates twice last month, by half a percentage point each time, in an effort to keep the abrupt slowdown from bringing an end to the long business expansion.
But his analysis of economic conditions suggested that further rate reductions were likely, if perhaps not so certain and so large as investors and analysts have assumed in recent days. The Fed's next scheduled meeting is on March 20, and analysts said there was now little chance of any rate cut before then unless the economy suddenly lurched downward.
The response to his testimony in financial markets was mixed, with investors apparently concluding that stock prices would get less support in coming months from declining interest rates than they had hoped. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 0.4 percent to close at 10,903.32. The Nasdaq composite index lost nearly 2.5 percent, closing at 2,427.72.
The cautiously upbeat tone of Mr. Greenspan's testimony was in contrast to the Bush administration's more dire warnings about the economy and the even darker forecasts made over the last month by some Wall Street analysts. 
Just today, President Bush told reporters aboard Air Force One that the positive report on retail sales for January was "one good statistic amongst a sea of some pretty dismal statistics" and that he remained "concerned about the economy."
Analysts said Mr. Greenspan seemed intent on signaling that the economy was not spiraling downward.
"Even when allowance is made for the Fed chairman's desire not to appear alarmed in public by the state of the economy, Mr. Greenspan made it clear that he does not expect the economy to slide into recession," said Ian Shepherdson, an economist at High Frequency Economics, a consulting firm.
In his twice-a-year report to Congress on monetary policy, Mr. Greenspan told the Senate Banking Committee that the long-term outlook remained bright because the technology revolution had led to a surge in the economy's productive capacity that showed no signs of abating.
The last six months, during which productivity growth has held up well despite weakness in most parts of the economy, provided strong new evidence that the technology-led improvements in the economy's prospects could continue for years to come, he said. 
Should productivity growth remain robust, the Fed chairman said, it could wipe out some of the long-term problems facing the country, even the projected insolvency of the Social Security system in coming decades.
"What we are learning with these changing productivity numbers is that a major alteration in how we view our future, how we view Social Security, how we view our fiscal affairs" will be necessary, Mr. Greenspan said.
But the same technological forces that have led to a resurgence in the growth rate of productivity, or output per hour, have also made the economy more prone to abrupt downturns of the type the nation is enduring now, he said.
Because businesses can now monitor demand for their products minute by minute, they can adjust their own output almost instantaneously to reduce inventories of unsold goods and unused supplies. And because they can see better what is happening across the economy, different businesses and industries increasingly tend to respond in concert to the same data.
"The result is not only a faster adjustment, but one that is potentially more synchronized, compressing changes into an even shorter time frame," Mr. Greenspan said.
When individuals see the economy slowing suddenly, he said, they respond, quite naturally, with concern and even fear, compounding the economic impact.
"While technology has quickened production adjustments, human nature remains unaltered," Mr. Greenspan said. "We respond to a heightened pace of change and its associated uncertainty in the same way we always have: We withdraw from action, postpone decisions and generally hunker down until a renewed, more comprehensible basis for acting emerges."
He said one big risk was that consumer confidence could crumble, like a dam being breached. "The torrent carries with it most remnants of certainty and euphoria that built up in earlier periods," he said.
For now, though, consumer confidence remains at levels that suggest that the economy will continue to grow, he said, and Wall Street analysts continue to predict strong corporate earnings over the long run. 
The Fed chairman said that although the economy appeared to have stalled at the end of last year, part of the problem might have been that bad weather inhibited everything from shopping to construction. And because productivity growth is holding up, he said, companies should be able to work off their excess inventories quickly and allow the economy to rebound quickly.
"If the forces contributing to long-term productivity growth remain intact, the degree of retrenchment will presumably be limited," he said. "Before long in this scenario, excess inventories would be run off to desired levels."
Still, in this more volatile atmosphere, Mr. Greenspan said, the central bank "has seen the need to respond more aggressively than had been our wont in previous decades." 
Richard Yamarone, an economist at the Argus Research Corporation, said Mr. Greenspan was saying "goodbye to gradualism," the Fed's preference in recent years for making small, cautious rate moves.
Mr. Greenspan said the Fed expected the economy to grow 2 percent to 2.5 percent this year, roughly in line with what private forecasters predict. With the economy running well below its capacity for noninflationary growth -- most estimates put that level at close to 4 percent -- the unemployment rate is projected by the Fed to creep up this year to about 4.5 percent from its current level of 4.1 percent.
Robert V. DiClemente, an economist at Salomon Smith Barney, called Mr. Greenspan's testimony a "mix of cyclical worry and secular optimism" that "conveyed a sense that risks remain manageable."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, during testimony before the Senate Banking Committee. He said the United States was not in a recession. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); RETAIL SALES (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; STOCKS AND BONDS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001 



361 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Is Mrs. Clinton's First Item on Senate Floor 

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 13 

 BODY:
In her first address from the floor of the United States Senate, Hillary Rodham Clinton offered an agenda of health care initiatives today, casting herself as a moderate on the very issue that resulted in one of her most embarrassing defeats as first lady.
 In fact, Mrs. Clinton employed a bit of humor as she confronted the lingering memories of her role in the Clinton administration's failed attempt to overhaul the nation's health care system. It was an effort that was widely derided at the time as big-government liberalism. 
 "Now, many of my colleagues will remember when I came to Capitol Hill seven years ago with an idea or two about how to improve health care in our country," Mrs. Clinton, New York's junior senator, said dryly, eliciting a few smiles. "We were not successful then."
But she added that the experience had made her wiser about how Washington works. "I learned some valuable lessons about the legislative process, the importance of bipartisan cooperation and the wisdom of taking small steps to get a big job done," she said.
The roughly 15-minute speech, in a largely empty Senate chamber, was full of legislative initiatives and anecdotes about average New Yorkers who she said had faced adversity under the "cruel inequities" of the current health-care system. The speech was also notably lacking in any partisan rhetoric as Mrs. Clinton, a Democrat, tried to position herself as a lawmaker concerned more with gritty legislative details than with politics. She declared that the issue of health care "transcends party, geography and ideology."
Nevertheless, Mrs. Clinton did use her speech to issue a direct challenge to the new Republican president, George W. Bush. Mrs. Clinton called on Mr. Bush to support a so-called patients' bill of rights that would give people the right to sue an insurer for any injury stemming from the insurer's decision to deny coverage for a medical procedure.
"I believe President Bush can transform the rhetoric of leadership into the reality of accomplishment," Mrs. Clinton said, adding, "Say the word, President Bush, and we can make this bill a law."
The bill Mrs. Clinton urged the president to support was proposed last week by Senator Edward M. Kennedy, a Democrat from Massachusetts, and Senator John McCain, a Republican from Arizona.
Mr. Bush, who vowed during the campaign to build bipartisan support for a patients' bill of rights, opposed last week's bill. He contends that there should be tighter controls and limits on litigation than exist in the bill.
The health care initiatives Mrs. Clinton discussed today were the same as those she proposed in her campaign last year. They appeared to have great appeal for New Yorkers, who ranked health care among their top concerns in some polls. 
She called for expanding eligibility for the government-run Children's Health Insurance Program. Her plan, she said, would enable roughly five million more children to enroll. Mrs. Clinton also proposed financial bonuses as a reward to states that aggressively enroll more children in the program, though she did not provide any details.
Mrs. Clinton also called for establishing a new national health insurance program for low-income families that is modeled after a program that New York created two years ago. She offered no details in her speech. But during the campaign, her aides said the plan would cost $60 billion over 10 years and cover about six million low-wage people.
Mrs. Clinton delivered her speech before a small audience consisting of three other senators and a handful of Congressional aides, as well as about two dozen tourists who watched from the visitors' gallery.
Afterward, she sidestepped questions about her husband's decision to abandon his plans to move into lavish office space in a Midtown skyscraper amid intense criticism. Mr. Clinton plans instead to move into a more modest space on Harlem's main shopping thoroughfare.
All Mrs. Clinton would say on the subject was that she was excited about his decision, noting that the new office is in the heart of a so-called empowerment zone that he helped create in Harlem when he was president to help foster economic development in the neighborhood.
"It would be a great place for him to have an office to demonstrate what federal investment in under-served communities can lead to," Mrs. Clinton told reporters as she left the Senate chamber.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, in her first speech on the Senate floor yesterday, urged support for a patients' bill of rights. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); LITIGATION (62%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (61%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); TED KENNEDY (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%) CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001 



362 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Dozens of Rich Americans Join In Fight to Retain the Estate Tax 

BYLINE:  By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Feb. 13 

 BODY:
Some 120 wealthy Americans, including Warren E. Buffett, George Soros and the father of William H. Gates, are urging Congress not to repeal taxes on estates and gifts.
 President Bush has proposed phasing out those taxes by 2009. But a petition drive being organized here by Mr. Gates's father, William H. Gates Sr., argues that "repealing the estate tax would enrich the heirs of America's millionaires and billionaires while hurting families who struggle to make ends meet." 
 The billions of dollars in government revenue lost "will inevitably be made up either by increasing taxes on those less able to pay or by cutting Social Security, Medicare, environmental protection and many other government programs so important to our nation's continued well-being," the petition says.
In addition to the loss of government revenue, the petition says, repeal would harm charities, to which many of the affluent make contributions as a way of reducing the size of their estates.
"The estate tax," it says, "exerts a powerful and positive effect on charitable giving. Repeal would have a devastating impact on public charities."
Mr. Buffett, the Omaha investor who ranks fourth on the Forbes magazine list of the richest Americans, said in an interview that he had not signed the petition itself because he thought it did not go far enough in defending "the critical role" that he said the estate tax played in promoting economic growth, by helping create a society in which success is based on merit rather than inheritance. 
Mr. Buffett said repealing the estate tax "would be a terrible mistake," the equivalent of "choosing the 2020 Olympic team by picking the eldest sons of the gold-medal winners in the 2000 Olympics."
"We would regard that as absolute folly in terms of athletic competition," he said.
"We have come closer to a true meritocracy than anywhere else around the world," he said. "You have mobility so people with talents can be put to the best use. Without the estate tax, you in effect will have an aristocracy of wealth, which means you pass down the ability to command the resources of the nation based on heredity rather than merit."
The petition is to appear in an advertisement on the Op-Ed page of The New York Times this Sunday and later in other newspapers.
Among those signing it are Mr. Soros, the billionaire financier; the philanthropist David Rockefeller Jr., former chairman of Rockefeller & Company; Steven C. Rockefeller, chairman of the Rockefeller Brothers Foundation; Agnes Gund, a philanthropist whose family owns stakes in many companies, and Ben Cohen, a founder of Ben & Jerry's.
Mr. Buffett and the younger Mr. Gates have both said they will give away most of their fortunes in bequests at death. Many of the signers have longtime affiliations with causes that depend heavily on charitable gifts, including bequests, and they are concerned that outright repeal of the estate and gift taxes would lead to a sharp drop in charitable giving.
A number of the signers are Democrats, and some have contributed heavily to the Democratic Party. But the elder Mr. Gates said in an interview that the idea for the drive was his own and that the support he had received was nonpartisan. Mr. Gates, like his son, has consistently declined to align himself with either of the political parties, and he said he had never given a moment's thought to the party affiliations of those being enlisted.
The petition says that "repeal of the estate tax would be bad for our democracy, our economy and our society," although its backers add that adjustments may be needed to help families passing down farms and small businesses. "Let's fix the estate tax," the petition says, "not repeal it."
Estate taxes are assessed on the net worth of an individual at death. There is no tax on the first $675,000, and under current law that exemption is to rise to $1 million by 2006. (Farms and family businesses already enjoy the $1 million exemption.)
But amounts above that threshold are taxed at rates that begin at 37 percent and rise to 55 percent, the rate that applies to anything greater than $3 million. The estates of fewer than 48,000 Americans a year -- 2 percent of annual deaths -- pay the tax. Nearly half the total is paid by the estates of the 4,000 people who die each year leaving $5 million or more. 
President Bush has made repeal of what he calls the death tax a part of his plan to cut taxes by $1.6 trillion over the next decade. His plan would also repeal the gift tax, which applies to gifts of more than $10,000 a year per recipient, and would permanently exempt from taxation all capital gains held at death.
Mr. Bush and Congressional Republicans who support the plan say that estate and gift taxes discourage savings and investment. Repeal, they assert, would increase economic growth by rewarding those who build great fortunes and creating incentives for them to invest more.
Mr. Bush says his plan would save those now subject to gift and estate taxes $236 billion over the next decade. Critics of the plan say this estimate of the cost to the Treasury is very low, because it does not take into account what tax experts have described as the new ways that repeal would give the wealthy to avoid income taxes. 
The elder Mr. Gates, who gained affluence as a prominent Seattle lawyer, said he had not asked his son, the chairman of the Microsoft Corporation, to sign the petition.
"My son is sympathetic," he said, "but he wants to stay focused on three things: his family, Microsoft and world health," which is the main interest of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
The elder Mr. Gates said the money that Mr. Bush wanted to devote to repeal of the estate and gift taxes could be put to better use "to reduce other taxes, which affect the other end of the economic spectrum."
"Ever since I heard that somebody was trying to repeal the estate tax, I have been angry," Mr. Gates said, adding that if it were not for his full-time job, he would organize a group called Millionaires for the Estate Tax. Mr. Gates is president of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which has an endowment of $20 billion.
Mr. Gates is working on the drive with United for a Fair Economy, a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization in Boston that wants to narrow the gap between rich and poor. The petition on the estate tax is being circulated among Americans with enough money that they are affected by it, and a spokesman for the Boston group, Chuck Collins, said that of more than 120 such people asked to sign, only four had declined. He would not identify them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESTATE TAX (96%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); PETITIONS (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); GIFT TAX (90%); CHARITIES (90%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TAX LAW (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); WILLS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CHARITABLE GIVING (77%); FAMILY (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); MEDICARE (70%); SPORTS AWARDS (68%); OLYMPICS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (63%) TAXATION; INHERITANCE AND ESTATE TAXES; GIFT TAX; PHILANTHROPY 

COMPANY: BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (50%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); WARREN BUFFETT (90%); GEORGE SOROS (89%) JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY; BUFFETT, WARREN E; SOROS, GEORGE; GATES, WILLIAM H SR; GATES, WILLIAM H; ROCKEFELLER, DAVID JR; ROCKEFELLER, STEVEN C; GUND, AGNES; COHEN, BEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001 



363 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Snag in Clinton's Office Plan: Giuliani Stakes Claim to Space 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER and DEXTER FILKINS 

 BODY:
For Bill Clinton, yesterday was yet another New York moment -- one minute he was up, the next he was down, this time tangled in a real estate dispute with one of his wife's former rivals. 
 Just as Mr. Clinton triumphantly announced that he would relocate his post-presidential offices from the extravagantly priced Carnegie Hall Tower in Midtown Manhattan to the heart of Harlem, a place he called home -- and where a crowd of people in the street shouted "We love you, we love you!" -- the mayor abruptly and enthusiastically claimed ownership of the space. 
 "This is business, it's not personal," said Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who dropped out of the race against Hillary Rodham Clinton for United States Senate last year.
The mayor said that the city held the lease to the 14th floor of 55 West 125th Street, the space Mr. Clinton toured yesterday morning. The building's landlords had negotiated with Mr. Clinton without notifying the city, the mayor added. But the city was more than willing, he said, to negotiate. 
"Maybe they will make an offer we can't refuse," said Mr. Giuliani, the former mob prosecutor, echoing a favorite line from his favorite movie, "The Godfather." The mayor added that it would be "particularly good" for Mr. Clinton to have an office in Harlem and that "we would like to accommodate that interest."
The mayor said that the city's Administration for Children's Services had leased "four or five" floors in the building for a future Harlem field office, including 7,303 square feet on the 14th floor for a director and an administrative staff. 
"A lot of children come from the Harlem community," said Nicholas Scoppetta, the commissioner of children's services. "So we leased this space to establish our child protective services where the need is greatest. It took us 14 months to find this space."
Mr. Giuliani, who made his comments at a news conference in the Bronx, said that the landlord's decision to negotiate with the former president over the 14th floor "actually can be considered a breach of a lease" but that "we don't stand on that ceremony." He added that "it seems to me that finding office space for the former president is a priority" and "we should work with him on that."
The city signed a lease on Dec. 20 for the same floor, as well as for the second, third and fourth floors -- a total of more than 50,000 square feet. Construction of the space was supposed to have started in June. 
But Mr. Giuliani said that if Mr. Clinton was willing to make the Administration for Children's Services "financially whole for this rather big imposition, we can make a deal."
The landlord, Arthur R. Stern, the chief executive of the Cogswell Realty Group, met yesterday afternoon with officials from the Department of Citywide Administrative Services, which handles leasing for city agencies. Negotiations are continuing.
"Both sides feel it's a win for everyone if the president locates his office in Harlem," Mr. Stern said. "But there are several substantial agency issues that have to be addressed." In all likelihood, the city agency will be moved from the top floor to a lower floor, at a lower rent, to make way for Mr. Clinton. City officials are also seeking compensation for any money spent on designing its space on the 14th floor.
"The 14th floor is the floor with the view, so it is the prime space in the building," Mr. Giuliani said. "So if we are going to do the deal here, somebody would have to take that into consideration."
Asked by reporters why the Administration for Children's Services initially felt it needed a 14th-floor view, Mr. Giuliani responded: "Oh, come on, don't pick on A.C.S. Give us a break. This is really kind of silly. A.C.S. has a lease on this property. No matter how you spin this, it is not A.C.S.'s fault. Maybe the landlord should have talked to A.C.S. before this happened."
Advisers to the mayor said yesterday that they were also concerned that if Mr. Clinton moved to the 14th floor, children and parents visiting the field office might have to go through extensive security and metal detectors.
Mr. Clinton, meanwhile, got a star's welcome yesterday in Harlem, where people whooped and clapped as he walked the sidewalks outside the renovated office building on the neighborhood's main shopping boulevard. "We love you, President Clinton," people shouted from the crowd. "Please come to Harlem."
During a news conference in front of the building, Mr. Clinton said that "I feel wonderful about it" and "I hope we can work the lease out in the details."
Mr. Clinton said that Harlem had long held a special attraction for him, first when he was a university student in England and then later when he became president. The building, which may be the best privately owned office building in Harlem, is in an economic empowerment zone that Mr. Clinton helped create in his first term. Aides have added that Mr. Clinton is also grateful that African-Americans stood by him in the bleakest moments of his presidency.
He added that Harlem represented "a lot of what I want to do in my post-presidential years -- bringing economic opportunity to people and places who don't have it here at home and around the world, and bringing people of different races and religions and backgrounds together."
Mr. Clinton also recalled his days as a Rhodes scholar at Oxford University in the 1960's, when he said he took advantage of inexpensive air fares to New York on several occasions.
"And every single time I did, I took the public transportation to 125th Street on the West Side -- I mean the East Side -- and I would walk down 125th all the way west. In Harlem," he said. "And people -- this is back in the 60's now -- people would come up to me and say -- ask me what I was doing here and I said I don't know, I just liked it; I felt at home."
Mr. Clinton embarked on a similar stroll yesterday morning, this time followed by crowds of admirers as he headed into Bayou, a nearby Cajun Creole restaurant, where he had shrimp and okra gumbo. Some residents, though, had mixed reactions to their potential new neighbor. "I hope he comes," said Francois Jean, 31. "But I hope he doesn't bring the rest of rich white America with him."
Should Mr. Clinton eventually settle on office space in Harlem, it would settle the storm of criticism that has followed him since he first planned to move into the 56th floor of the Carnegie Hall Tower at 152 West 57th Street. But the lease for that space was estimated from $738,700 to $811,000 a year -- too much for Representative Ernest R. Istook, the Republican of Oklahoma and chairman of the House Appropriations subcommittee that oversees the budget for former presidents.
Mr. Istook said that the rent was more than the annual rent of all other former presidents combined.
The asking annual rent for the 14th floor in Harlem would be $210,000.
Representative Charles B. Rangel of Harlem, an early supporter of Mrs. Clinton's Senate candidacy, called Mr. Clinton last weekend to suggest the relocation to Harlem. Yesterday, Mr. Clinton said he then consulted his wife.
"So I called Hillary and I asked my senator first how she would feel about me coming to Harlem," Mr. Clinton said. "And she loved it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Clinton tours the top floor of an office building on 125th Street in Harlem that he is considering renting. (Karl Crutchfield/The Amsterdam News)(pg. B5); Bill Clinton walks on West 125th Street in Harlem after confirming he is negotiating for office space there. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CHILD WELFARE (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (88%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (86%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%) RENTING AND LEASING 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (79%) CLINTON, BILL; BUMILLER, ELISABETH; FILKINS, DEXTER; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001 



364 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Style Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Review/Fashion; 
Creating a Fantasy Life Beyond the Seams

BYLINE:  By CATHY HORYN 

 BODY:
Sometimes a fashion show provides such an exquisite keyhole into a certain kind of life -- specifically, the status life of New York -- that automatically your mind starts reeling off all these little scenes, very Upper East Side, very Mario Buatta, with the pillows creased just so and all these blond divorcees ready to carve each other up while they slowly pick their way through their rare hamburgers at Swifty's and wonder what became of Mr. Right in St. Bart's.
 Such were the little scenes conjured by Oscar de la Renta's collection yesterday. The show was so dead-on in the way it covered all those significant lifestyle bases -- from the classy tweed skirt and sweater that Carmen Kass wore out at the beginning to the let-them-eat-cake ball gowns at the end -- that one could see the places these clothes would go. And the things that would happen in them -- well, that is the giddy part about fashion. 
 It's a totally irrational thing. One minute you're sitting there in the tents in Bryant Park. Your brain is clogged from seeing the sort of spangled cling-on numbers that you can catch around midnight in the Russian Vodka Room -- which pretty well sums up the Halston show yesterday -- and the next, you're looking down Mr. de la Renta's runway at this cocktail dress with a slip of a top, and a skirt flaring out like a teacup. 
Except the whole thing is encrusted with thousands of tiny black beads, like caviar. Suddenly you think of all those eligible bachelors in New York who have $1,000 worth of caviar in the fridge but nothing real to eat, and a date happens along, surveys all those tins stacking up and says, "Hmmm. . . ."
That is fashion. It creates an immediate fantasy life -- beyond seams, beyond tired expressions of silhouette, correctness. Who cares? Does it hit you between the eyes, and before lunch no less?
So Mr. de la Renta put on a terrific show. He opened with that salt-and-pepper tweed skirt, worn a little off the waist in a way that says, "Let's not make this too complicated." There were more tweeds, in herringbone, worn with simple sweaters, or sometimes a ruffled white blouse and a wool coat trimmed with black braid. Suede miniskirts in fuchsia and red came out with matching silk sweaters fluffed around the neck with knitted fur. The fit of the clothes looked young. But, really, the word that comes to mind is effortless. Clothes in this league should look rich. That's why Mr. de la Renta pours on the feathers at night, blows up the sleeves of a gold lace gown, and sends out a town coat in a black grid of shiny patent and matte leather. But the effect should be that you went to no trouble at all. 
Fashion in the upper echelons is a funny business. In good times or bad, women with taste and the means to indulge it continue to buy expensive, well-made clothes. And this is true not just in New York, but in places like Dallas, Atlanta and Detroit. Money is apparently no object, as long as the look is right, and almost every designer has witnessed something that shows that conspicuous consumption is still alive and well. 
Yet, it's also true that clothes at this level can't be too contrived. They have to fit well, and in a way that doesn't make you look too self-consciously with-it. And this was the problem with Carolina Herrera's collection on Monday. She opened with some breezy coats in loden and suede and smart-looking tweed trousers flecked with gold. 
Then things started to get complicated, twisted, as tight cowl-neck tops came out, which were as jarring as leather harem skirts with dainty, paper-thin blouses. The proportions seemed off, too. But mostly what one longed for was a lighter hand. Mrs. Herrera's black satin cocktail dress with a belt effect around the shoulders was a cool, semi-kinky idea, but the rear view was less than flattering.
In his program notes, Douglas Hannant, also showing yesterday, said he was inspired by the architecture of the Bauhaus. So was Rudi Gernreich -- about 50 years ago. Judging from Mr. Hannant's collection of pinstripes combined with tight leather, often fanning out in sharp points, the future looks a lot like Gianfranco Ferre. Suffice it to say, the clothes looked overthought.
Yeohlee Teng's show yesterday was a tad somber, though pretty at times, with draped coats, cotton mousseline blouses and graphic checks. Still, the vaguely Turkish theme (covered heads) sent a penitent note, as if these were clothes for recession dressing. The party's not over.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Oscar de la Renta's tweed skirt and cashmere sweater on Carmen Kass.; Suede bomber jacket over gold-flecked trousers from Carolina Herrera.; Lace-cut mink wrap coat by Craig Natiello for Halston. (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times); Douglas Hannant's obi-sashed tweed coat, inspired by the Bauhaus. (Corina Lecca for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION SHOWS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (65%) APPAREL; REVIEWS 

PERSON: OSCAR DE LA RENTA (89%) HORYN, CATHY; DE LA RENTA, OSCAR 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001 



365 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Microsoft Introduces New Windows System

BYLINE:  By PAUL ANDREWS 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Feb. 13 

 BODY:
Stung by slowing personal computer sales and continuing antitrust battles, Microsoft introduced a new version of its Windows software today, one that it hopes will help restore the company to its glory days of the 1990's.
 Calling the 18-year-old Windows operating system "the most successful software product of all time," William H. Gates, the company's co-founder and chairman, said the forthcoming Windows XP version would be "the most important Windows release since Windows 95," a blockbuster that generated worldwide attention and made Windows nearly synonymous with personal computing. 
 Analysts were less buoyant, with some questioning whether XP would provide the "upgrade pop" -- users either buying new machines or installing XP over existing versions -- that made Windows 95 so successful but that has been absent from the last two revisions, Windows 2000 and Windows Me.
In a carefully hedged bulletin, a leading Wall Street Microsoft analyst, Rick Sherlund of Goldman, Sachs, said XP "could be a positive catalyst" for the company, but not till well into the 2002 fiscal year. Because of concerns about the Year 2000 computing problem last year and economic uncertainty this year, "there could be building pent-up demand to upgrade older PC's in 2002," Mr. Sherlund noted. He also foresees enough of a "stronger upgrade cycle for the business market" that he recently raised revenue expectations for fiscal year 2002, which starts in July. 
Microsoft shares closed yesterday virtually unchanged, down 56 cents at $58.19. The stock rose $1.06 to $59.81 in after-hours trading.
"The challenge is, what hardware will it work on?" said Chris LeTocq, research director for the Gartner Group, a leading industry trends tracker. Noting that Windows XP is being aimed at computers sold after January 1999, he said, "People at home keep systems around a lot longer than two years."
Due out in beta test format soon and for sale by the end of the year, XP stands for the "experience" that all sorts of digital media, like movies, music, photographs, wireless networking and home video will bring to the PC. 
The company held its presentation today at the Sky Church studio of the Experience Music Project, the rock 'n' roll museum built by Microsoft's other co-founder, Paul Allen. Jim Allchin, a senior Microsoft executive in charge of the Windows group, stood on the stage and used a PC loaded with Windows XP to show video clips of "Gladiator" and his 18-month-old son learning to vacuum, as well as photographs of rare sunshine over Seattle "because I'm from Florida and like to be reminded the sun exists."
"Windows XP is the system my mom deserves," Mr. Allchin told the audience of 100 analysts and press representatives.
One factor that could increase the upgrade potential is XP's reunification of Windows code from its bifurcated legacy of Windows 95 and Windows NT, the version of the operating system aimed a office use. Last summer, Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, told journalists and analysts that the company regretted abandoning the consumer market with Windows 2000, saying, "We couldn't beat the drum the way we did with Windows 95."
With XP, Microsoft hopes to beat the drum for making the PC a living-room "hub" for digital entertainment, Web access and information management. The vision foresees continued expansion of high-speed Internet access to homes, along with wired or wireless networks trading information among numerous devices in the home. 
Because they must accommodate a wide variety of add-ons and configurations, consumer versions of Windows have been notably unstable. With XP, Microsoft hopes to bring the reliability of Windows 2000 to the consumer realm.
Mr. Allchin showed off a feature called remote assistance that allows a user to seek online help from a more technically adept friend or associate, who can remotely log on to the user's machine and run programs. The process could raise security concerns, but Microsoft executives said in interviews after Mr. Allchin's presentation that XP would include a personal firewall for blocking hacker access, encryption for remote-access sessions, password protection and user-defined time-outs to prevent unauthorized access after a session had concluded.
Released just weeks before the Macintosh OS X operating system by Apple Computer, Windows XP bears striking similarities to new iTunes, iMovie and iDVD technologies for the Macintosh. Mr. LeTocq said there was also a resemblance to the message spread at January's Macworld trade show: "If you buy a new digital peripheral, you need this PC product to run it." 
Issues left unaddressed included those involving integration of XP with Windows.NET, the set of software services Microsoft is working on to transplant the PC's functionality to a variety of wireless and hand-held devices connected to the Internet. 
Some analysts questioned whether one more version of Windows would dilute and fragment, rather than unify, the user landscape.
"The operating system is no longer the focus," said Dwight Davis, analyst for Summit Strategies. "It seems like a long, long time ago when Windows 95 had the whole world sitting on the edge of its seat."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 16, 2001

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Wednesday about the introduction of the XP version of Microsoft's Windows operating system compared the timing incorrectly with that of Apple Computer's Macintosh OS X system. XP is scheduled for the second half of the year, after OS X, not before.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William H. Gates, chairman of Microsoft, talked to journalists yesterday about the Windows XP system. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); TEST MARKETING (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); TRENDS (75%); POP & ROCK (74%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); MUSIC (60%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: BILL GATES (88%); PAUL ALLEN (58%) GATES, WILLIAM H; ANDREWS, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001 



366 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: O'Neill Presses Case for Swift Action on Taxes 

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 13 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill urged Congress today to give swift passage to key elements of President Bush's proposal for a 10-year, $1.6 trillion tax cut as a way to help stave off any further downturn in the economy.
 Mr. O'Neill, who pressed the case for the tax cut before the House Ways and Means Committee, said that "quicker is better, given the softness of the economy we're experiencing now." 
 He singled out two parts of Mr. Bush's plan as the best ones to enact retroactively "to put money in the hands of Americans quickly": a cut in income tax rates and a doubling of the $500-per-child tax credit. 
With his testimony, Mr. O'Neill bolstered the emerging strategy of House Republican leaders to break Mr. Bush's tax-cut plan into parts and to try to push through its centerpiece reductions in income tax rates quickly, putting pressure on Democrats to vote with the president. 
Even as Mr. O'Neill spoke, Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader, told reporters that the House was likely to vote on reductions in income tax rates as early as March. And Representative Bill Thomas, the California Republican who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said, "I don't think we ought to pause and clean our glasses and adjust our green eye shades before we respond to this economic slowdown." 
Democrats, by contrast, sharply questioned the reliability of projections that the federal surplus would reach $5.6 trillion in the next decade and argued that the tax cut should not be considered apart from broader decisions on federal spending.
Representative Charles B. Rangel of Manhattan, the senior Democrat on the committee, said the two parties "want to reach the same goals" of cutting taxes. But, Mr. Rangel added, "we don't have a budget, and we can only support a tax cut when we know what's going to happen with the rest of the budget." 
Seeking to counter Democrats' contentions that the tax cut will grow larger as it moves through Congress, Mr. O'Neill said Mr. Bush was adamant that it not exceed $1.6 trillion, even though making parts of the plan retroactive -- as Mr. Bush has recommended -- would raise its costs.
"The president has been really clear," he said. "I've heard him say it over and over again. The number is $1.6 trillion."
Mr. O'Neill said that other elements of Mr. Bush's tax-cut plan would have to be scaled back or slowed to balance the costs of making other parts retroactive. He also played down the need to adjust the alternative minimum tax, even though it is expected to dilute the value of the cuts for many taxpayers.
Mr. O'Neill was also critical of two ideas Democrats have been examining: making any tax cut contingent on the size of the federal surplus, and devising some way to ease the burden of the Social Security payroll tax.
Even as Mr. O'Neill spoke, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, appeared on the other side of the Capitol and undercut the idea that tax cuts would play much of a role in reviving the economy.
Testifying before the Senate Banking Committee, Mr. Greenspan said tax cuts could be helpful in the unlikely event that the nation was entering a prolonged recession. But he cast doubt on the administration's contention that quickly passing a tax cut would help the economy recover from the type of short, sharp downturn it appears to be enduring.
"It is most unlikely that if we go through a regular recession that any tax cut can be enacted sufficiently quickly to alter the probability of whether we will, indeed, find ourselves in a recession," he said. 
Mr. O'Neill's comments today showed a change in tone from a month ago when, during his confirmation hearing, he called the Federal Reserve, through its control of monetary policy, the "first line of action" to fight a downturn. At the time, he suggested that Mr. Bush's tax cut would have relatively little immediate effect on the economy.
Today, as he marked the start of what is expected to be a monthslong battle, Mr. O'Neill said tax cuts could go hand-in-hand with Federal Reserve cuts in interest rates to provide a "belt and suspenders approach" to shoring up the economy.
"If you can have both, why not have both?" he said.
His written testimony went further, saying: "Cutting income tax rates can help keep this downturn from taking root. If the economy does worsen, I don't want to look back and say, 'If only we had acted sooner.' "
Mr. Bush's tax-cut plan would reduce tax rates across the board. It also calls for the repeal of the estate tax and a reduction in the so-called marriage penalty, under which some couples pay more in taxes than if they were single.
House Republican leaders moved today to try to inoculate their party against charges by Democrats that the tax cut could threaten the Social Security and Medicare surpluses.
On a vote of 407 to 2, the House passed a bill that creates procedural hurdles to using surpluses from the Social Security and Medicare trust funds for purposes other than paying down the debt until broad overhauls of the two programs are considered. Of the $5.6 trillion federal surplus projected for the next decade, $2.9 trillion comes from those two funds.
"This bill sends a loud, clear and concise message that the Social Security trust funds will be protected," said Representative Wally Herger, the California Republican who was its sponsor.
To make his budget numbers add up, Mr. Bush has called for such protections only for Social Security. But the bill's language was loose enough that it would let him use Medicare funds to pay for a new prescription drug benefit when he sends Congress his budget. Democrats voted overwhelmingly for the bill even while calling it ineffective.
"The so-called lockbox offered today is more political theater than substantive protection for Social Security and Medicare," said Representative Martin Frost, Democrat of Texas.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pressing for a tax cut, Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill said yesterday that "quicker is better." (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX RELIEF (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%) TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; TAX CREDITS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%) O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ARMEY, DICK (REPR); MITCHELL, ALISON 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001 



367 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Fed Changes Procedures On Securities 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said yesterday that the central bank had made changes in procedure and was considering others to ensure that the shrinking of the nation's Treasury market would not inhibit the Fed's ability to move interest rates when it wants.
 Treasury securities are used regularly in the financial transactions the Fed uses to push interest rates lower, as it is doing currently in an attempt to keep a slowing economy from falling into a recession. But with federal budget surpluses rising, the government is on its way to pay off the national debt and end the issuance of Treasury securities in the next 10 years. 
 And because the Treasury market is already shrinking, the Fed is looking for alternative securities it can use so its monetary policy operations will not be disruptive. 
Mr. Greenspan also said that the benefits of eliminating the nation's debt -- and, in turn, the Treasury bond market -- are so great that the move is worth the impact it will have on Wall Street's bond business and the Fed.
Mr. Greenspan said that there was no doubt that other things being equal, "it would be better to have a large Treasury debt outstanding so that those of us who deal in the financial markets have easy benchmarks and easy means of pricing and of funding," he said in answer to a question as he testified before the Senate Banking Committee.
But, he added, "the trade-off very clearly says by far the most important thing is to get the debt down, and we will handle the problems as best we can."
The changes the Fed has approved, and the ones it is now considering, will expand the kinds of securities that primary dealers -- banks and broker-dealers -- can use as collateral in dealing with the Fed as the central bank seeks to move its benchmark short-term interest rate.
When the Fed wants to lower its benchmark rate -- the Federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks -- it must add cash, or what Wall Street calls liquidity, to the financial system.
It does this through temporary repurchase agreements with these primary dealers. In exchange for securities from the primary dealer, which are taken as collateral, the Fed credits their accounts with cash. This adds reserves to the banking system, bringing down interest rates.
In the past, these securities were limited to Treasuries and certain agency securities, including those from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. But as the supply of Treasuries shrinks, using them for monetary policy operations could limit the Fed's freedom to act and could create distortions in financial markets.
To prevent that, Mr. Greenspan said the Fed had now extended the temporary authority granted in 1999 to use mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by the agencies.
This authority was first granted in 1999 to ensure that there would be enough securities easily available for collateral in dealing with the Fed if there was a rush of investors to the Treasury market after a Year 2000 disruption in the financial markets. None occurred.
Mr. Greenspan also said that the Fed was now considering including certain state debt and the debt of foreign governments as accepted collateral for primary dealers. But he said the Fed would consult with Congress before adding these securities to the list.
"Because the market for Treasury securities is going to become much less deep and liquid if outstanding supplies shrink as projected, we will have to turn to acceptable substitutes," the Fed chairman said in his prepared testimony.
Longer term, Mr. Greenspan said that the Fed was considering changes in the use of its discount window, which can make loans to banks. But banks rarely come to the discount window because of the stigma attached to going to the Fed as the lender of last resort.
Mr. Greenspan did not give any details, but it is possible that the Fed could seek changes that would make it easier to use the discount window to add cash to the financial system to help bring down interest rates.
The central bank is also studying, the chairman said, changes in law that would broaden the list of assets the Fed could acquire, again a response to the shrinking of the Treasury market.
"In summary, although a reduced availability of Treasury securities will require adjustments in the particular form of our open market operations, there is no reason to believe that we will be unable to implement policy as required." he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); RECESSION (77%); APPROVALS (75%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; NATIONAL DEBT (US) 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (81%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (81%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%) FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001 



368 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: ARTS ABROAD; 
Filming the Beckett Canon, Stage Directions Included

BYLINE:  By Brian Lavery 

DATELINE: DUBLIN, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
On a recent afternoon at the Irish Film Center, a crowd poured out of a movie and headed for the bar while another rushed to down pints before the next screening started. Alan Moloney managed to squeeze through the throngs and sit down, just for a minute, with his cigarette. His youthful look -- a tight black T-shirt and spiky hair -- couldn't hide his exhaustion, which he said was from excessive celebration.
 Celebration was certainly justified. Mr. Moloney is the co-producer of "Beckett on Film," a festival from Feb. 1 through Feb. 8 that featured the premieres of cinematic versions of all 19 of Samuel Beckett's stage plays, using internationally renowned directors and actors. Nearly every screening sold out well in advance. The Film Center's two theaters were filled not just with drama students carrying dog-eared copies of Beckett's work, but also with couples of all ages, a few families and many people who remembered firsthand when Beckett ruled the stage. 
 The films will be broadcast on Irish national television next month and travel to London as a festival in April. Then it's on to the United States this summer, starting at Lincoln Center. Blue Angel Films, the company run by Mr. Moloney and the project's co-producer, Michael Colgan, owns the films and is selling broadcast rights to television stations across Europe.
Irish audiences are likely to react differently to the Beckett works today than they did when most of them were written, a time of rampant unemployment in Ireland. Because Beckett's fastidiously strict stage directions prevented the 19 film directors from adding their own interpretations, those versions were not updated.
The success of the films so far is likely to be credited to the well-known professionals Mr. Colgan and Mr. Moloney brought to the project. David Mamet directed a seven-minute version of "Catastrophe" starring Harold Pinter and John Gielgud in his last film role before his death last year. Anthony Minghella, director of "The English Patient," cast his former collaborators Alan Rickman and Kristin Scott Thomas as the adulterers in "Play."
Other famous names associated with the project include those of the British artist Damien Hirst, who directed the 45-second film "Breath"; Jeremy Irons, acting in shoulder-length white hair; and the Irish director Neil Jordan, whose camera zooms in on Julianne Moore's mouth for a disconcerting 14 minutes in "Not I."
Public debate surrounded the films from the start. Before he died in 1989, Beckett explained his worries about film and television directors' posthumously interpreting his work. Several Irish newspapers condemned the project as sacrilege, even though Beckett himself occasionally wrote for television and was the author of a screenplay, "Film," which was produced as a short movie in 1964, starring Buster Keaton.
"Beckett on Film" began when Mr. Colgan, artistic director of the Gate Theater here, tired of producing the plays onstage. (His theater festival staged all 19 works in Dublin in 1991, New York in 1996 and London in 1999.) Beckett's estate allowed the plays to be done in film studios (all the shooting was done on sets, without audiences), but stipulated that each director had to submit a proposal for the approval of Edward Beckett, the author's nephew and literary executor.
Purists will still argue -- as Mary McAleese, president of Ireland, said at the premiere party for the films, "God knows how many Ph.D.'s will be written about these" -- but much of the wrangling seemed to disappear after the first screenings. Many praised the sparse intensity of the films, which reanimate plays that might otherwise go unseen.
"He really doesn't need your protection," Mr. Colgan said of Beckett at the festival's premiere party. "This man can survive this project."
Although familiar Beckett plays like "Waiting for Godot," directed by Michael Lindsay-Hogg, and "Endgame," directed by Conor McPherson, a 29-year-old Irish playwright, were given relatively traditional productions that showcased Beckett's well-known existential cynicism, the directors also delighted audiences with his comic side. 
Mr. Moloney emphasized the power of the films' use of close-ups. In a theater, for instance, it would be impossible to notice an old woman's clenched knuckles relaxing when she died in "Rockaby," he said. "Krapp's Last Tape," starring John Hurt as an old man listening to an audiotape of himself made 30 years earlier, relies on the camera to capture the quiver in Krapp's chin as he painfully recalls an old romance.
The films follow Beckett's detailed instructions. For "Footfalls," for example, he noted how many steps an actress should take while pacing up and down a corridor and choreographed her steps to match the dialogue. For "Play," which features three actors in large urns with just their heads showing, he specified that a spotlight shine on each only when he or she is speaking, cutting quickly back and forth among the three. In the screen version, the camera jumps spasmodically from one talking head to the next.
Working within those confines proved an exciting, if not liberating, experience, the directors said. "Following the stage directions exactly has given exactly the right result," said Charles Garrad, a British director. In a play in which Beckett demanded that a character breathe for 10 seconds, "if you cut it down to 6 seconds, or up to 12, it doesn't work," he said.
The Czech director Karel Reisz, who directed the silent piece "Act Without Words I," observed, "The briefing that we were given is 'You mustn't change anything.' " But, he said, "one changes everything by going from one medium to another."
"Beckett on Film" was created on a shoestring budget of $5 million, mostly from RTE, the Irish national radio and television network, and Britain's Channel 4.
The producers considered Sundance and Berlin's film festivals before deciding to give the project its premiere in Dublin. The week of screenings and public discussions with directors seems already to overshadow the Dublin Film Festival, held each fall.
This festival also celebrated the feeling of exile and alienation that Beckett, like Joyce, had toward his native country. Dubliners frequently admit, with pride, that to truly love their city, you must learn to hate it first. Bob Collins, director general of RTE, described Beckett's work as "in the Gaelic tradition, but not of it."
"It is both important and utterly unimportant that he is Irish," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Foreground, from left, Kristin Scott Thomas, Alan Rickman and Juliet Stevenson in the film "Play." (Pat Redmond) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (90%); FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); WRITERS (64%); THEATER (58%) MOTION PICTURES; BECKETT ON FILM (FESTIVAL) 

PERSON: LAVERY, BRIAN; MOLONEY, ALAN; BECKETT, SAMUEL (1906-89) 

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) IRELAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%); EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



369 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: From Vilar's Deep Well, a Wish for the Kennedy Center 

BYLINE:  By ALLAN KOZINN 

 BODY:
Alberto W. Vilar, an investor who in recent years has become the most generous donor to opera and ballet companies around the world, describes his latest gift, $50 million to the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, as "a project that kills two birds with one stone."
 Mr. Vilar, in a telephone interview yesterday, explained that the gift, which includes $15 million to cover visits to the Kennedy Center by the Kirov Opera and Ballet and its director, Valery Gergiev, beginning in February 2002, "will bring to Washington a company that I support in a very large way, perhaps with productions that I have underwritten in St. Petersburg." 
 "But it isn't just about putting on wonderful performances," he added. "It's about doing something to build skills in the world of arts management -- to start an international institute where the future heads of organizations like the Kennedy Center can learn all the aspects of running a house." 
The gift, which Mr. Vilar announced yesterday at a news conference at the Kennedy Center, is the largest ever to be donated to the institution. About $35 million is for establishing an institute at the Kennedy Center for training arts administrators, and includes fellowship money to cover tuition at the institute.
The $50 million is among the largest grants that Mr. Vilar, 60, has made in a burst of arts philanthropy that began in the mid-1990's, when his prescient early investments in high-tech stocks like Microsoft and America Online made him a billionaire. The Kennedy Center gift brings his total donations to the arts to more than $225 million, of which he has given about $75 million since October.
Asked whether recent downturns in the market had led him to reconsider his gifts -- or whether his continued giving means that he has abandoned high-tech companies -- he said that such events did not faze him. "I'm committed to this area, it's the area where I've made my fortune," he said. "I'm a long-term bull." 
Up to now Mr. Vilar's largest gifts have been to the Metropolitan Opera, where he donated $25 million to the company's endowment fund and is also underwriting 10 productions at about $2 million apiece. Last season he contributed $17 million to the refurbishing of the Royal Opera House at Covent Garden in London. He recently gave $14 million to Mr. Gergiev's Kirov, and he spent $10 million to build the Vilar Center for the Arts in Beaver Creek, Colo., to which he also provides $1 million a year to underwrite performance fees. 
Organizations that have received gifts from Mr. Vilar in the single-digit millions include the Salzburg Festival, the Los Angeles Opera, the Washington Opera, Carnegie Hall, the Bayreuth Festival and John Eliot Gardiner's Bach Cantata Pilgrimage, which took the cantatas around the world last year. Only last month he announced a $5 million gift to start a conducting competition and training program associated with Lorin Maazel, as well as a $250,000 gift to the New York Philharmonic to underwrite performances of the Verdi Requiem next season. 
The timing of Mr. Vilar's gift to the Philharmonic, and the announcement of his conducting competition only days before Mr. Maazel was named the Philharmonic's new music director, has led some to speculate that he threw his weight behind the choice of Mr. Maazel, though he and the Philharmonic have denied that he influenced the selection.
Regarding the Philharmonic's choice of Mr. Maazel, Mr. Vilar said, "They never asked me," and pointed out that the appointment reflected the overwhelming preference of the orchestra's musicians. 
Mr. Vilar has been known to throw his financial support behind musicians and administrators whom he admires, and in a recent case an offer of support to the San Francisco Opera was predicated on the company's choosing one of his two preferred candidates for the company's general directorship -- Sarah Billinghurst, the Metropolitan Opera's assistant manager for artistic issues, or Gerard Mortier, the director of the Salzburg Festival. When neither was chosen, Mr. Vilar took his patronage to the Los Angeles Opera, where Placido Domingo had just become artistic director. 
Generally, though, the recipients of Mr. Vilar's gifts, including Joseph Volpe, the general manager of the Metropolitan Opera, have said that Mr. Vilar has scrupulously avoided making artistic demands. The strings attached to his gifts more typically involve recognition and gratitude, particularly as expressed in programs, on posters or, in the case of the Met and Covent Garden, by having parts of an opera house named for him. Another demand is a front-row seat, something Mr. Vilar said that he insisted on because he wanted a good view of the conductor. 
Mr. Vilar's gifts are far-flung -- he also supports a number of medical and educational institutions -- but the Kennedy Center gift is consistent with several elements of his philosophy of arts patronage. One is the penchant for supporting performers and administrators whom he admires in a variety of projects. 
In the case of the Kennedy Center grant, that means Mr. Gergiev and Michael Kaiser, who just took over as president of the Kennedy Center. Mr. Vilar knew Mr. Kaiser from his brief tenure as the executive director of Covent Garden. Involved more peripherally is Mr. Domingo, who Mr. Vilar said would help coordinate the Kirov's plans with those of Mr. Domingo's own Washington Opera, which is based at the center.
Mr. Vilar has supported several of Mr. Domingo's endeavors, including the Washington and Los Angeles companies and the Operalia competition for singers. 
A second priority for Mr. Vilar has been to support traveling opera productions. He has underwritten a Kirov Opera production of Prokofiev's "War and Peace" that is traveling a circuit that includes Covent Garden, La Scala and the Met. And when he announced the $14 million Kirov gift last September, it was at a joint news conference with Mr. Gergiev and Mr. Domingo at the Los Angeles Opera (which received a smaller grant the same day). He said then that he sought to foster collaborations between the St. Petersburg and Los Angeles companies. In arranging for 10 years of Kirov visits to the Kennedy Center, Mr. Vilar is also working to shore up the Russian company, which otherwise receives little government or private support. 
The institute, which will bear Mr. Vilar's name, is consistent with previous projects. More typically, Mr. Vilar has donated money to start or support training programs for young singers. The switch to the training of administrators, he said, was Mr. Kaiser's idea and followed a pilot project that began in Salzburg last summer and will last five years. There, administrators from around the world attend seminars and lectures on the challenges of running arts organizations. Last summer the seminars focused on opera, but future installments will look at how ballet companies, festivals, orchestras and concert halls are run. Mr. Kaiser will direct the institute.
To a degree, Mr. Vilar's interest in the music world springs from a desire to become a conductor that was thwarted by his father, a sugar executive who wanted his son to follow in his footsteps. Mr. Vilar spent his first nine years in Cuba, then lived in Puerto Rico until he was 18. He moved to the United States to study economics at Washington and Jefferson College in Washington, Pa., and later earned a master's in economics at Iona College.
After two years in the United States Army, he worked briefly for Citibank before working at several small investment companies. He formed his own company, Amerindo Investment Advisors, with a partner, Gary Tanaka, in the 1970's. The company now manages about $10 billion. 
Apart from acknowledging that he is a billionaire, Mr. Vilar would not disclose his net worth. He maintains a two-floor, 30-room pied-a-terre in Manhattan and divides his business life between New York and London, with frequent trips to St. Petersburg to catch performances at the Kirov.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alberto W. Vilar, the investor and philanthropist, supports performers and administrators whom he admires. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); BALLET (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); OPERA (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); FESTIVALS (88%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%) CULTURE; PHILANTHROPY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); AOL INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (94%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); AOL (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: KOZINN, ALLAN; VILAR, ALBERTO W 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (52%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRIA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



370 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing 

BYLINE:  Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:
 ASIA

AFGHANISTAN: OPPOSITION TAKES CITY -- Bamiyan, a strategic city west of Kabul, has been captured by opposition forces, according to spokesmen for both sides in the conflict. If itcan hold the city, the opposition will deal a major setback to the Taliban militia, which has suffered few battlefield reversals in the past year. Bamiyan was once a bastion for Afghan Shiite Muslims. The Taliban are primarily Sunni. Barry Bearak (NYT)

AFGHANISTAN: U.N. OFFICE CLOSED -- The Taliban militia has ordered the United Nations Special Mission to Afghanistan to close its office in Kabul. This action follows new United Nations sanctions against the Taliban and a United States demand that the militia close its political office in New York. Barry Bearak (NYT)

PHILIPPINES: EVIDENCE REVEALED -- The crucial envelope was finally opened. Two senators took turns reading its contents on television: huge bank transactions apparently made by former President Joseph Estrada under the alias Jose Velarde. Suppression of this evidence at Mr. Estrada's impeachment trial set off huge protests leading to his ouster last month. Seth Mydans (NYT)

MIDDLE EAST

IRAN: BARRING CAMPUS RAIDS -- The reformist Parliament passed a bill that would bar security forces from campuses and seminaries. The measure comes after a 1999 police raid on a university hostel in which dozens of students were injured. The state news media said deputies approved the bill, setting stiff jail sentences for forcible entry into campuses, allowing police intervention only in emergencies. It still needs to be approved by the Guardian Council, a conservative body. (Reuters)

BAHRAIN: VOTE ON CHARTER -- Turnout was strong on the first of two days of voting on a charter that calls for a partially elected Parliament, a constitutional monarchy and an independent judiciary. The referendum, the first since Bahrain gained independence from Britain in 1971, would give women the right to vote for the first time.
(Reuters)

EUROPE

CHECHNYA: 12 RUSSIANS KILLED -- Chechen guerrillas killed a dozen soldiers and wounded two dozen in 25 separate attacks Tuesday on Russian military positions in the rebellious province, an official in the pro-Moscow provincial government said. Seven of the deaths occurred after Russian vehicles struck mines; five soldiers died in ambushes or firefights with rebels. The Kremlin said this year that it planned to begin reducing its military presence in Chechnya because the war is effectively over. Michael Wines (NYT)

BRITAIN: OVERWEIGHT PROBLEM -- Nearly two-thirds of the men and more than half the women in Britain are significantly overweight or obese, Parliament's spending watchdog said. The National Audit Office said in a report that obesity, which has tripled in the last two decades, costs the economy $3.65 billion a year in health-care bills and lower productivity from sickness and premature death. The group recommended that the government do more to promote healthy habits and to improve health. Sarah Lyall (NYT)

LITHUANIA: CONVICTION IN DEATH OF JEWS -- A 93-year-old former American citizen was convicted of turning over at least three Jews to Nazi death squads during World War II, the first Holocaust-related conviction ever secured on territory of the former Soviet Union. The convict, Kazys Gimzauskas, was deputy head of the Vilnius security police at a time when many Baltic citizens sided with Germany against invading Soviet troops. The court elected not to sentence him because he has Alzheimer's disease. Michael Wines (NYT)

THE AMERICAS

MEXICO: CHIAPAS CURBS EASED -- Two weeks from the start of a Zapatista march from Chiapas to Mexico City, the government has eased curbs on foreign observers who want to monitor the rebel caravan and efforts to reach a peace accord. In the past, dozens of foreigners in Chiapas were charged with meddling in Mexican affairs and expelled. President Vicente Fox canceled some old expulsion orders, and officials said foreigners need only have tourist visas to work as observers in Chiapas. Ginger Thompson (NYT)

COLOMBIA, U.S.: BUSH MEETING -- President Bush will meet with President Andres Pastrana in Washington this month to discuss a Washington-backed aid package to fight drug traffickers and their guerrilla allies, the White House announced. The meeting, set for Feb. 27, will offer Mr. Bush an opportunity to review the American role in helping Colombia cope with threats posed by organized crime, a decades-old civil war and a faltering economy. Last year Congress approved $1.3 billion in mostly military aid for Colombia. Christopher Marquis (NYT)

AFRICA

SIERRA LEONE: VOTE PUT OFF -- Parliament has agreed to postpone general elections and extend the government's authority six months because of security problems caused by war. In a unanimous vote, the assembly extended its term in office and that of President Ahmad Tejan Kabbah, left, until September 2001, Parliament said in a statement. Under the Constitution, Mr. Kabbah's five-year mandate expires in March. (Reuters)

GUINEA: LIBERIA ACCUSED -- The army chief has accused President Charles Taylor of Liberia of invading southern Guinea and has threatened to retaliate, taking a five-month-old border conflict deep into Liberia. The United Nations high commissioner for refugees, Ruud Lubbers, is due to meet Mr. Taylor today to discuss the plight of tens of thousands cut off by the fighting. (Reuters)

GRAPHIC: Photo Map of Afghanistan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); APPROVALS (87%); OBESITY (86%); ARMED FORCES (85%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); CLOSINGS (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); RELIGION (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); REFERENDUMS (68%); IMPEACHMENT (67%); SENTENCING (67%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (62%); AUDITS (60%); JAIL SENTENCING (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BAHRAIN (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



371 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Journal in Exile; 
Man Who Would Be Shah Seeks Job Ruling Iran

BYLINE:  By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
On the day four decades ago when Riza Pahlevi was born, crowds took to the streets throughout Iran to chant: "It's a boy! God is great!" 
 An honor guard marked the moment with a 41-gun salute. Criers in the mosques called the faithful to prayer. Air force planes rained down thousands of bouquets. Royal edicts freed nearly 100 prisoners and ordered a nationwide tax cut of 20 percent. 
 An heir to the Peacock Throne had arrived, an infant destined by birth to rule over the Persian monarchy and assume the historical titles that went with the job: the sovereign, the Pivot of the Universe, the sultan, the King of Kings, the Royal Possessor of Kingdoms, the Shadow of Allah. The event made front-page news around the world.
But that was long ago, long before a revolution in the name of religion overthrew the monarchy in 1979, sending Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi and his wife, Farah Diba, into exile and depriving their son of his birthright.
Twenty-two years later, Riza Pahlevi is struggling to make his mark, announcing "a new phase" in a campaign to peacefully remove the Islamic Republic and replace it with what he calls a "democratic and secular government" that just might crown him king.
All that's missing is a kingdom, since he reigns nowhere except over a small piece of the Internet.
He wages a lonely battle from his residence in suburban Maryland, from an office in Virginia and on a Web site (www.rezapahlavi.org), whose opening page shows the now-banned flag with the sword-carrying lion beneath a sun that was the official symbol of the Pahlevi dynasty.
"Forty years since the day I was born I was given a responsibility by history," he said in an interview in a small conference room at the Four Seasons Hotel. "I have this burden on my shoulder. Whether I was blessed or cursed -- I won't get into that. I cannot change my name. I cannot change who I am."
At the National Press Club here recently, Mr. Pahlevi told reporters that he was a catalyst for change, calling for a national referendum to choose a new form of government. 
"I am ready to serve and honored to do it as the next constitutional monarch," he said. Of course, he added, if the people choose a republic instead, "I am just as happy to serve."
Mr. Pahlevi has inherited the strong nose, bushy eyebrows and broad forehead of his father, but he wears well-cut suits, not the ermine-trimmed robes and heavy crown of the monarchy. His fingernails are beautifully manicured, his curly hair perfectly gelled. 
He is only a bit grayer and heavier than he was on his 20th birthday, when, in a quiet ceremony in exile in Cairo, he kissed a copy of the Koran and proclaimed himself the new shah of Iran, the year after his father's death in 1980. 
Over the years he has tried without success to rally Iranians behind his cause, announcing to Iranians in a clandestine television broadcast in 1986, for example, "I will return."
A graduate in political science from the University of Southern California and a fighter pilot trained in Texas, Mr. Pahlevi portrays himself as a religious man who does not drink alcohol and a family man who shops in the neighborhood supermarket and drives his two daughters, Noor and Iman, to the private French school in Maryland where they are students. 
He says he has neither a chauffeur nor a private plane. His Iranian-born wife, identified in a recent news release as Princess Yasmine, is an American-educated lawyer, who he said was looking for a job.
Recently he delivered what he called his "kickoff message" via satellite time that was purchased privately from a European satellite system and broadcast twice to Iran. People contacted in Iran who closely monitor television said they had not seen the broadcast.
Certainly there is considerable nostalgia for the monarchy in Iran. Some Iranians, particularly in small towns and villages, still hang photos of Mr. Pahlevi's parents on their walls. Iranians reminisce about the days under the old regime when women could show their hair, when it was legal to drink alcohol and, most important, when the dollar was worth 70 rials (it now hovers around 8,000).
But despite the cult of the monarchy, there is no cult for Mr. Pahlevi, who is more of a curiosity than a political force.
His movement has neither a name nor a precise platform, except that his appeal is for the youth of the country -- about 65 percent of the population is under 25 -- to lead the charge against the Islamic Republic.
He calls for "jump-starting the moribund state of the economy," yet he has spent the last 20 years unemployed. Several years ago he lost about $25 million of his family fortune through the mismanagement of his financial adviser. 
He said he has only about one-fourth of his fortune left, but added, "I'm not claiming to be poor." One moment he says that transfer of power should be nonviolent; in another he predicts: "We expect a fight. We do. They're not going to just roll us the red carpet and leave."
For now, Mr. Pahlevi lives with his memories (how he went to a school created especially for him on the grounds of the palace) and his regrets (how he had to leave Iran with none of his personal photographs or home movies). 
Although he does not deny "the mistakes" of what he refers to euphemistically as "the previous regime," he asks not to be compared to his father.
"George W. Bush is his own man with his own agenda and administration that has nothing to do with what his father did," he said. "This institution that I represent lasted 3,000 years."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Riza Pahlevi, son of the deposed shah of Iran, has been unemployed for 20 years. He lives in exile in Maryland but wants to return home as ruler. (Susana Raab for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); AIR FORCES (72%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); INTERVIEWS (68%); POLITICS (65%); REFERENDUMS (60%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (57%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ROYAL FAMILY 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; PAHLEVI, RIZA; PAHLEVI, MOHAMMED RIZA (SHAH) (1919-80) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) IRAN

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



372 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Longtime Enemies, Armenia and Turkey Softly Broach Detente 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS FRANTZ 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
The governments of Armenia and Turkey have initiated quiet diplomatic contacts in recent weeks to evaluate prospects for cooperation and opening the border between them, said people outside the governments who have been briefed on the talks.
 The countries have no diplomatic relations, but mid-level officials from both foreign ministries have exchanged visits in the capitals, Yerevan and Ankara. 
 The signs of progress are small and come at a time of rising anxiety in Turkey over actions by the Armenian diaspora to persuade world governments to recognize the killing of Armenians under the Ottoman Empire as genocide. 
But the private government contacts have yielded more positive sentiments than the sometimes-harsh public statements from the two capitals.
The talks are occurring as private organizations in Turkey have taken steps toward expanding contacts with Armenia and Armenian-Americans, an effort that has yielded some visible progress. 
A Turkish-Armenian business group is stepping up efforts to promote trade between the countries, and in June 600 Armenian pilgrims are planning to visit ancient Armenian sites in Turkey under the sponsorship of the Armenian Church of America, which is based in New York. 
In a rare public visit, Armenian officials are expected to attend a conference on regional stability on Saturday in Istanbul.
"The mere contact is an achievement under these circumstances," said Ozdem Sanberk, a retired senior Turkish diplomat who is director of the Turkish Economic and Social Studies Foundation, the conference sponsor. "It's a bumpy road, and we must handle it with care," he said. 
The Turkish Foreign Ministry declined to comment on the talks with Armenia, but a senior ministry official said Ankara wants to normalize relations if certain conditions are met. "That is an objective for us, and it would be good not only for Turks and Armenians, but for the region," the official said.
Dziunik Aghajanian, a spokeswoman for the Armenian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said in a telephone interview that she could not confirm recent meetings, but she said there have been numerous contacts between officials of the two countries in recent months.
No one is predicting substantial improvement soon. The issues that divide the countries are difficult. 
Armenians say 1.5 million people were killed by Turkey in 1915, and they want the deaths recognized as genocide. They also want the border between the countries reopened so trade can resume and Armenia can revive its stagnant economy.
Turkish officials say far fewer Armenians died as a result of partisan fighting, and they want Armenians to stop advocating the genocide legislation. They said the border would not be opened until Armenia withdrew its troops from the Nagorno-Karabakh region of Azerbaijan, which ethnic Armenians claim as their homeland. 
Tensions increased last month after the French Parliament adopted a bill that recognized the 1915 killings as genocide. Turkey retaliated by excluding French companies from several public contracts, mostly in the defense field, and taking symbolic actions like banning French travelers from the V.I.P. lounge at Ataturk Airport in Istanbul.
Turkish officials hope progress with Armenia will head off introduction of a similar resolution in the United States Congress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); GENOCIDE (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); WAR CRIMES (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%) ARMENIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-TURKEY; ARMENIAN-AMERICANS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION; WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS 

PERSON: FRANTZ, DOUGLAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (90%); ANKARA, TURKEY (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) TURKEY (99%); ARMENIA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%) ARMENIA; TURKEY

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



373 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: In Mid-Crisis, Ukraine President Lashes Out at Opposition 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: KIEV, Ukraine, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
President Leonid D. Kuchma has sharply warned the political forces arrayed against him that he will use the formidable powers of his office to protect himself in an unfolding crisis over corruption and the murder of a prominent journalist, Western officials said after the arrest this week of Yulia V. Timoshenko, a leading opposition figure. 
 Mr. Kuchma reinforced the point by issuing a strongly worded statement with his prime minister, Viktor Yushchenko, and the Parliament speaker, Ivan Plyushch, saying the "Ukraine Without Kuchma" movement that formed this winter was trying to "set off mob rule" in the country "by using flagrant provocation and to compel the authorities to use force." 
 The statement capped several days of tension over the expectation that Mr. Kuchma was preparing to crack down on the opposition after replacing his top intelligence chiefs last weekend and meeting on Monday with the president of Russia, Vladimir V. Putin. 
The turmoil here has created perhaps the most significant moment of Ukraine's decadelong struggle to make itself into a modern democracy free of the crony capitalism and authoritarianism that have plagued other post-Soviet republics. 
After leading Ukraine along a path toward a Western system of markets and democracy, Mr. Kuchma, who became Ukraine's first post-Soviet prime minister in 1992 and president in 1994, now faces a broad coalition of political parties that believe he has betrayed the principles of civil society and rule of law once set by him as goals for the country.
This standoff with his opponents reached a new peak on Tuesday when Ukraine's prosecutor general's office, which reports directly to Mr. Kuchma, took Ms. Timoshenko into custody less than a month after she had been fired from her post as deputy prime minister. Her arrest came after she had waged a yearlong campaign to end corruption in the country's energy sector, which Mr. Kuchma controls. 
Ms. Timoshenko is charged with corruption from previous business dealings in the energy industry, but she asserted in a recent interview that the case against her is motivated by the anti-corruption drive she led in the cabinet. 
"This arrest is a pointed attempt to intimidate the opposition," said Oleksandr Turchinov, parliamentary leader of Ms. Timoshenko's Fatherland faction. The party has joined the "Ukraine Without Kuchma" coalition seeking Mr. Kuchma's resignation. 
Western governments, including the United States, have shown restraint in criticizing Mr. Kuchma's handling of the crisis in part because there are strong concerns that criticism will drive Ukraine into a closer union with Russia. Its president staged a high-profile meeting with Mr. Kuchma on Monday at the rocket factory, now converted to build civilian boosters, where Mr. Kuchma began his career.
In an interview, the American ambassador, Carlos E. Pascual, without commenting directly on Ms. Timoshenko's arrest, admonished Mr. Kuchma's government to make a stronger commitment to the rule of law in bringing the crisis to an end. 
"Ukraine has to make decisions on how it is going to deal with this political instability and political uncertainty," Mr. Pascual said, "and whether it is going to continue to keep itself on the path of an independent, democratic and market-oriented state." 
His remarks followed others from the State Department spokesman in Washington, Richard A. Boucher, who said the Bush administration was "troubled by the lack of progress" in the investigation into the murder of Georgy Gongadze, a journalist who disappeared in September and whose headless body was discovered six weeks later in a shallow grave 75 miles from Kiev.
The scandal surrounding Mr. Gongadze's death prompted a more far-reaching political crisis in November when a member of Mr. Kuchma's presidential security service fled the country and then released what was purported to be secret recordings of private conversations in which Mr. Kuchma ordered his top aides to orchestrate the abduction of Mr. Gongadze. 
The veracity of the recordings has been confirmed by some political figures whose conversations with Mr. Kuchma were taped. The recordings are now being examined by independent experts of the International Press Institute in Vienna, with support from Freedom House in New York, officials here said. 
The release of the initial recordings caused demonstrations in December and the splintering of Mr. Kuchma's majority in Parliament. A fuller record of Mr. Kuchma's private conversatons emerged in January and for the first time linked him to officials suspected of siphoning off tens of millions of dollars from natural-gas shipments under the control of Naftohaz Ukrayiny, the state-owned energy monopoly. 
The recordings -- made by Mikola Melnichenko, a major in the presidential security service charged with ensuring that Mr. Kuchma's office was not bugged -- have become a critical factor in the crisis. Though there are dozens of cases of missing or murdered journalists here, in Belarus, Russia and the Central Asian states, until the recordings emerged, Mr. Gongadze's killing was simply another suspicious death of a journalist who had tilted at the windmills of power, even questioning Mr. Kuchma personally about corruption allegations in a 1999 television panel discussion. 
But the intimacy of the recordings, which have been played in Parliament and transcribed in newspapers across the country, have transported Mr. Kuchma's private and profane demands that Mr. Gongadze be gotten rid of into a national debate on Ukraine's self-image.
The fate of Major Melnichenko himself, however, seems uncertain. Political figures here who are in touch with him say that he has been unsuccessful in applying for political asylum in several Western countries, including the United States, even as Mr. Kuchma's security services scour Europe, trying to find him for extradition. 
For the United States, which has supported Mr. Kuchma faithfully with more than $2 billion in aid and praise for the independent course he has struck in relations with Russia, the current crisis holds the risk of showing that Washington turned a blind eye for too long to the corruption that has been endemic to his regime. 
Mr. Pascual, the American ambassador, struck a cautious tone in an interview, arguing that the United States must consider what is good for Ukraine in the long term, whether the future belongs to Mr. Kuchma or to someone else.
"To formulate a policy on the basis of instability is a recipe for failure," Mr. Pascual said.
Still, Western officials, and many Ukrainians, say they are unable to predict where the confrontation is headed. Some believe that Mr. Kuchma's muscular statement about ending "mob rule" was a means of adopting a threatening posture in hopes the opposition would simply wilt, or would enter into a compromise in which Mr. Kuchma might fire more security chiefs associated with the Gongadze case and cede additional powers over the economy to Parliament. 
In a statement, Mr. Kuchma said "the leadership of the country remains open for political dialogue" with "those who really want such a dialogue." 
But opposition leaders say they will not compromise.
Sergiy Golovaty, a Parliament deputy and member of the committee investigating Mr. Gongadze's death and other issues raised on the recordings, said, "Our aim is to prove that the recordings are real, that the president's voice on them is real, that the subject of the conversations is real, and on this basis we will try to build up our indictment that the president is in violation of his oath, of the Constitution, of the criminal law, and that he is guilty of abusing power." .
Last week the opposition established a multiparty Forum for National Salvation with a goal of working both in Parliament and in the streets to force Mr. Kuchma to call early elections. 
Anatoly C. Matvienko, leader of the Sobor Party and formerly a Kuchma ally, said the coalition has a realistic prospect of building a new majority in Parliament to strip Mr. Kuchma of many of the powers he has accumulated in the presidential administration; it now dwarfs the prime minister's office and cabinet in size and command over law enforcement powers and budget revenues. 
"We know what to do, how to do it, and I am sure that we will succeed," Mr. Matvienko said. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Posters including one saying "For Bandits -- Prisons!" are going up in Kiev as the opposition's battle to unseat Leonid Kuchma gathers force. (Associated Press); Yulia V. Timoshenko, the opposition figure arrested in Ukraine. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ETHICS (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (63%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (61%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (53%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; ETHICS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE 

ORGANIZATION: ;STATE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (59%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (59%) TYLER, PATRICK E; KUCHMA, LEONID (PRES); TIMOSHENKO, YULIA V; PASCUAL, CARLOS E (AMB); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); GONGADZE, GEORGY 

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (92%) UKRAINE (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) UKRAINE

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



374 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Rising Costs Will Cause 20% Drop in Farm Income, Group Says 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
The nation's farm economy is being battered by soaring costs for energy and fertilizer, a research institute has told Congress.
 Net farm income is likely to drop 20 percent, or $9 billion, over the next two years without increased federal aid, the Food and Agricultural Policy Research Institute told Congress on Tuesday. The institute is financed by Congress and based at the University of Missouri. 
 The cost of fuel that farmers need for tractors, combines and irrigation equipment jumped 31 percent last year. Prices may drop slightly in coming months, but growers are expected to be hit this year with a 33 percent increase in fertilizer costs, the report said. Nitrogen fertilizer is made from natural gas.
"It's not only low prices, it's high production costs that are squeezing farmers," said Bruce Babcock, an Iowa State University economist.
Keith Dittrich, a Nebraska farmer, said he expected to pay about $67 an acre to irrigate his corn this year, compared with $37 an acre in 2000. Fertilizer costs are running $40 an acre, up from $25 last year.
Meanwhile, the price of corn has averaged less than $2 a bushel for several years.
"You keep looking for ways to find better efficiencies in your operation, but there's a limit to that," Mr. Dittrich said. "It's to the point where there is no place to cut."
The financial squeeze is not just in the Midwest. Cotton farms in California and Texas that rely heavily on irrigation are likely to be among the hardest hit over the next few years, according to an analysis by Texas A&M University. Rice farms of all sizes are likely to lose money, too. Wheat and soybean farmers, whose fertilizer and fuel costs are generally lower, would do a little better.
A 2,000-acre cotton farm in California is expected to have $1.05 in costs for every $1 in income over the next five years.
Cattle producers are in the best shape, in part because of rising beef consumption and low grain prices, which result in lower feed costs.
Crop prices plummeted in the late 1990's because of lagging exports and heavy worldwide production, and Congress responded by passing multibillion-dollar packages of supplemental assistance in each of the past three years. Last year, farmers received $8 billion in emergency aid.
Senator Pat Roberts, Republican of Kansas, warned recently that farmers faced a "economic and energy powder keg" because of rising production costs. Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman has endorsed the idea of another emergency aid package this year but has not said how much money will be needed.
The report released estimates on Tuesday that net farm income will drop from $45.4 billion last year to $39.6 billion in 2001 and $36.3 billion in 2002 before starting to turn around in the following years as commodity prices rise.
Farm income peaked at $55 billion in 1996. Government payments have been soaring since then, topping $22 billion last year, triple the total in 1996.
Mr. Roberts and other farm state lawmakers also want to protect farmers from more taxes. At issue are conflicting court rulings over whether farmers must pay self-employment taxes on income from the federal Conservation Reserve Program, which distributes $1.4 billion to more than 290,000 farmers who take environmentally sensitive acreage out of production.
"Now is not the time to add another tax burden on our struggling farmers," said Mr. Roberts, one of several sponsors of a measure blocking the additional taxes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERTILIZERS (92%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (91%); AGRICULTURE (90%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (90%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); COTTON FARMING (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (77%); IRRIGATION (76%); CORN MARKETS (75%); EXPORT PRICES (75%); RICE FARMING (73%); SOYBEAN FARMING (73%); MEATS (72%); LIVESTOCK FEED (72%); BEEF (70%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (61%) AGRICULTURE; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; FINANCES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ENERGY AND POWER; FERTILIZER 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (57%); IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%) FOOD AND AGRICULTURAL POLICY RESEARCH INSTITUTE 

PERSON: PAT ROBERTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



375 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Powell Pledges Strong Support for Wide Spectrum of U.N. Activities 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
Stepping into the heart of an organization grown wary of Republicans, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell sought today to assure Secretary General Kofi Annan that he could count on the Bush administration's strong support across a wide spectrum of United Nations activities.
 General Powell, who requested the meeting before his trip to the Middle East, discussed Iraq, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and other issues with Mr. Annan for more than an hour. Meeting reporters after the talks, Mr. Annan said relations with Washington were on "a very good footing," and he joked that he was "extremely happy that the secretary of state's first visit outside the U.S. is to the U.N." 
 The secretary of state, who praised Richard C. Holbrooke, the former American envoy to the United Nations, for his work in solving, at least in large part, the problem of American debts to the organization, went further than most Republicans in pledging to cooperate with the United Nations in working on social and economic problems. Leading Republicans have criticized programs to build democracy and ease disparities in wealth around the world. 
General Powell told reporters that he had expressed strong support for the work of the United Nations, and said he and the administration "look forward to working very closely with the secretary general and other colleagues within the U.N."
On the Middle East, General Powell said that he and Mr. Annan had been in constant contact in recent weeks and that both were talking with leaders in the region, "encouraging them to act as leaders and statesmen to get the violence down, to get the economic activity moving again, so the people see hope in their lives once again." Only then could peace efforts resume, he added, and he called for aid to the Palestinians. 
Asked about Iraq, General Powell had no objections to a high-level meeting between Mr. Annan and an Iraqi delegation here this month. "I think talks can always be useful," he said. "And it would be presumptuous of me to suggest to the secretary general what he might or might not talk about." 
But he added that the United States, while beginning a review of its stand on Iraq, would steer its policy somewhere between moderation and belligerency and in any case would not modify its support for international sanctions. 
"We are constantly looking at ways of making it possible for us to be assured that there are no weapons of mass destruction and there are no programs under way that would produce weapons of mass destruction, and at the same time do it in a way that does not hurt the Iraqi people," the secretary said. "We have sympathy for the people of Iraq. We have sympathy for the children of Iraq. We see a regime that has more than enough money to deal with the problems that exist in that society, if only they would use that money properly."
This week, the United Nations again warned Iraq that it should be spending more of its oil windfall on helping the most vulnerable people living under a decade of sanctions.
The secretary of state reiterated opposition to the International Criminal Court, whose treaty President Clinton signed on Dec. 31. "We have no plans to send it forward to our Senate," General Powell said.
He said that it should not be a cause for concern that he had not yet named an ambassador to the United Nations. "I assured the secretary general," he said, "that in the not too distant future he will see the naming of a permanent representative."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUDGETS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (71%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: RICHARD HOLBROOKE (72%) CROSSETTE, BARBARA; POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HOLBROOKE, RICHARD C (AMB); ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); ISRAEL (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



376 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1699 words

HEADLINE: Ignore the Label, It's Flextronics Inside; 
Outsourcing's New Cachet in Silicon Valley

BYLINE:  By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Calif. 

 BODY:
Dot-coms are collapsing right and left, and e-businesses are vanishing by the dozens, but here in a nondescript industrial park in the heartland of Silicon Valley, business is booming.
 And that is certainly poetic justice. Long ago -- before the advent of the World Wide Web -- companies here actually manufactured things. Now, with the bursting of the Internet stock market bubble last year, old-fashioned high-technology manufacturing is suddenly back in vogue. 
 At least that is the way it appears from the cramped offices of Michael E. Marks, the 50-year-old chairman and chief executive of Flextronics Inc., the world's second-largest company in an industry known as electronics manufacturing services. 
This industry -- which assembles things like personal computers and various consumer gadgets -- got little notice until recently. But that changed in January when the Swedish telecommunications giant Ericsson announced that it would turn over its factories and manufacturing operations entirely to Flextronics in a deal that could ultimately be worth as much as $5 billion a year. And the Ericsson deal is just the beginning. Still, Mr. Marks is a remarkably informal and hands-off manager for someone who is running a company whose roughly $12 billion in revenue in 2000 may grow to $20 billion over the next year. 
Flextronics and a few other companies like it run counter to the conventional wisdom in Silicon Valley that "it's all just bits." Semiconductor companies that focus on design while outsourcing chip making have become commonplace. But somebody still has to turn the ideas into reality. And that is where Flextronics -- based officially in Singapore, with its top executives here in San Jose and operations around the world -- comes in.
"Everyone is trying to get out of manufacturing," Mr. Marks said. He argues that the standard business approach for a growing number of high-tech companies is: "It's impossible to open a factory; the hollow corporation is here; end of story."
But Mr. Marks struck a deal last year with Microsoft that could soon rival the Ericsson alliance. Microsoft has chosen to challenge the Japanese electronics giants Sony and Nintendo and get into consumer electronics in a big way with its X-Box video game machine, scheduled to appear on store shelves by fall.
Although the powerful home computers will come with a Microsoft label, they will be built by Flextronics. Mr. Marks is now putting the finishing touches on two new factories, one in Guadalajara, Mexico, and the other in Tab, Hungary, where 16 assembly lines could churn out as many as two million of the $400 systems this year.
"A billion dollars here and a billion dollars there, and pretty soon you're talking about a fairly large business," Mr. Marks said.
Flextronics has, in fact, been on a remarkable seven-year growth spurt. When Mr. Marks took over the ailing company in 1993 as part of a turnaround effort it ranked 22nd among electronics manufacturing services concerns. It is now second. Its stock, though, after soaring as high as $85 in late 1988, has come back to earth after the company was forced to take a big write-off last spring. It closed Wednesday at $36.94. 
With 150 factories and more than 70,000 employees in 27 countries, Flextronics has leapt from the obscurity of what was once a grubby Silicon Valley contract manufacturing business category called board stuffing. When this industry was born, in the 1960's, it largely operated in back alleys, with companies paying someone else to do the tedious and low-value job of placing semiconductor chips by hand on printed circuit boards and then soldering them in place.
Today, in a sleek building next to its headquarters, six Flextronics production lines as long as football fields are dedicated to automated board stuffing, soldering and testing machines that handle thousands of circuit boards a day.
As recently as the late 1980's there was a great deal of hand-wringing in Silicon Valley about the danger of "hollow corporations" and the flight of manufacturing jobs from the area. Most of the original semiconductor companies had moved their manufacturing and assembly operations overseas in search of cheap labor, and the computer makers were soon doing the same. That was before a new generation of executives like Mr. Marks changed the rules of the game. He, too, has taken advantage of globalization to place factories around the world, with those heavily dependent on hand labor established in low-wage countries while the more automated plants operate in wealthier countries like the United States, Europe and Singapore.
But instead of the rigid, almost militaristic manufacturing ethos long popular in industry and honed to a high polish in Asia and elsewhere in the 1980's, this generation has pioneered something Mr. Marks calls operations manufacturing.
Its hallmark is extreme flexibility. Not only can Flextronics readily take advantage of its ability to shift from one product to another as the market changes, but, even more important, it has managed to radically shorten the entire supply chain in both time and organization. Manufacturing times drop from more than a week to less than a day, and in futuristic factories like those at the Flextronics Guadalajara complex, component suppliers are often situated adjacent to the assembly line.
Increasingly, Flextronics and its closest rivals -- Solectron, which is the biggest company in the sector; Celestica; and SCI Systems -- are providing a full spectrum of manufacturing and design services to companies including Microsoft, Motorola, Cisco Systems and Palm.
In a world that is occasionally referred to as Silicon Valley Inc. and where workers can change jobs simply by turning in a new driveway, Mr. Marks's goal is to offer almost everything that goes into manufacturing short of product advertising and marketing.
"He's an aggressive general who's commanding an army," said J. Keith Dunne, a financial analyst at Robertson Stephens, a San Francisco investment bank. "He's taking a more verticalized approach than before, and he's trying to capitalize on the increasing integration of the industry and the thrust toward one-stop shopping for manufacturing."
Mr. Marks argues that his industry will be able to charge right through any recession, capitalizing on the hard times that have forced high-tech companies into cost-cutting. He recently told a group of financial analysts in San Francisco that companies in his industry would be the biggest beneficiaries of any downturn -- gaining business as traditional manufacturers look for new outsourcing opportunities to trim expenses.
"The March quarter will be tough for us, but by the June quarter we will blow everyone away," he said. Flextronics is now working on a number of other deals on the scale of the Ericsson factory buyout.
Moreover, against a background of a gloomy stock market and the virtual disappearance of Silicon Valley stock offerings of any kind, Flextronics priced a Nasdaq secondary stock offering at $37.94 a share on Feb. 1 in an effort to raise more than $1 billion in working capital.
In addition to growth based on manufacturing deals with companies like Ericsson and Microsoft, the company has been on an acquisition binge. Last year, it bought the Dii Group, a $1.3 billion contract manufacturing company based in Niwot, Colo. Flextronics also made a smaller acquisition, of Palo Alto Products, a design company that had worked with Palm Inc. to create the original Palm Pilot as well as other company models, which Flextronics manufactures.
Today, Jim Sacherman, a mechanical engineer who was founder and chief executive of Palo Alto Products, heads Flextronics' marketing efforts and occupies the office next to Mr. Marks.
Acquiring talents like Mr. Sacherman is part of the strategy for broadening the services that Flextronics can offer, but Mr. Marks also goes out of his way to acknowledge the role that Cisco's chief executive, John T. Chambers, has played as an evangelist for the importance of outsourcing manufacturing.
Mr. Chambers has become a true believer in using the Internet to connect Cisco's customers directly to the Flextronics factory floor so that as soon as an order is placed, manufacturing begins.
Cisco's passion for using the Internet to transform business has in turn translated into strong pressure on traditional telecommunications companies to try to adopt Internet technologies and business practices.
"There was no telecommunications outsourcing before 1997," Mr. Marks said, "Now it's moving in our direction at a breathtaking pace."
That explosion has presented Flextronics with some delicate problems: the company has found it now often makes products for direct competitors. For example, the Ericsson deal came less than a year after Motorola signed a $30 billion, five-year manufacturing deal with Flextronics.
While he acknowledges that he has had to smooth some ruffled feathers, Mr. Marks said Flextronics had been able to erect "fire walls" to prevent proprietary information from leaking between competitors.
In fact, electronics manufacturing services appear to be mimicking other industries that found marked advantages to having one company provide services to an entire industry.
"If you look at the automobile-industry outsourcing, the same thing went on," Mr. Dunne of Robertson Stephens said. "There are certain manufacturing processes that can help everyone in the chain."
Mr. Marks is bringing an old-style Silicon Valley culture to the model. Flextronics, he said, is based on a management approach that hates meetings and hates bureaucracy. Rather than debate things for hours, he says he gives managers responsibility and decision-making ability.
"We have a group mind here," he said. "We just sync up, and then go and do what needs to be done."
To motivate his workers, he has pushed stock options deeply into the ranks. And he marvels at the waste and inefficiency at some companies he deals with.
One had a special team of workers just to change the size of executives' offices when they were promoted.
"Nothing could be more whacked out," he said. "Around here we tell bureaucracy stories so we don't get that way."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 21, 2001

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Thursdayabout Flextronics, a Silicon Valley manufacturer, misstated the timing and the level of its record high stock price. Adjusted for stock splits, the record was $44.91 a share in September 2000, not $85 in late 1988.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael E. Marks, above, chairman and chief executive of Flextronics, has overseen a global expansion of the company, which manufactures high-technology items for brand-name clients. Flextronics has 150 factories in 27 countries.; A display at Flextronics United States headquarters in San Jose, Calif., shows the variety of products the company assembles for concerns like Ericsson and Microsoft. (Photographs by Thor Swift for The New York Times)(pg. C1) Chart: "Making It"As many high-technology companies have abandoned manufacturing, Flextronics has thrived by filling the void Charts show revenue and operating income of Flextronics from 1993 to 2000 with estimates for 2001. Fiscal years ended March *Figures for 1996-2001 are restated to reflect acquisitions(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Flextronics; Bank of America)(pg. C1) Chart/Map: "Making It Around the Globe"Through its expansion and the need to be near customers, suppliers and consumers, Flextronics has built a global network of factories and facilities. Map of the world highlighting location of design and engineering centers, production introduction centers, regional manufacturing operations, and industrial parks. (pg. C18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (79%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); SEMICONDUCTORS (72%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (71%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (60%); COMPUTER GAMES (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: FLEXTRONICS INTERNATIONAL LTD (85%); TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); NINTENDO CO LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ERICSSON AB; MICROSOFT CORP; FLEXTRONICS INC; MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: FLEX (NASDAQ) (85%); ERIC.B (STO) (84%); ERIC.A (STO) (84%); ERIC (NASDAQ) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); 7974 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334418 PRINTED CIRCUIT ASSEMBLY (ELECTRONIC ASSEMBLY) MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (52%)

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); SINGAPORE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



377 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Goodyear Announces Loss And Plan to Cut 7,200 Jobs 

BYLINE:  By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
The Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, grappling with persistently high raw materials costs and a weak euro, reported a fourth-quarter loss yesterday and said that it would reduce its 105,000-employee work force by almost 7 percent.
 The company said it would cut 7,200 jobs this year -- the vast majority of them overseas -- on top of the 3,500 jobs it eliminated last year. It took a fourth-quarter charge of $93.7 million to cover the cuts and some plant closings, increasing its net loss for the quarter to $102 million, or 65 cents a share, on sales of $3.5 billion. Net profits in the fourth quarter of 1999 were $37 million on sales of $3.7 billion. 
 Goodyear, which said that high oil prices added $1.40 to the cost of each of the 223 million tires that it shipped last year, reported a fourth-quarter operating loss of $16.5 million, or 11 cents a share, excluding one-time items. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial expected an operating loss of 16 cents a share. In the 1999 period, Goodyear, which is based in Akron, Ohio, had operating profit of $47.6 million.
In a conference call with analysts yesterday morning, Goodyear executives said the company would be profitable by the second half of 2001. They said the job cuts, combined with other cost-cutting measures, would shave more than $700 million from its annual costs by 2004.
"This isn't a short-term reaction to the economy," said Keith Price, a Goodyear spokesman. "We're structuring to be profitable regardless of where oil and currency goes." 
Shares of Goodyear closed at $24.20, up 22 cents. 
"This is a tough operating environment, with raw material costs going up faster than prices," said Wendy Beale Needham, an analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston. 
Goodyear was also hurt by the strong dollar. Mr. Price said that translating European sales from euros to dollars cost Goodyear $446 million last year.
There was a bright spot. Sales of replacement tires increased nearly fivefold in the fourth quarter from the period a year earlier. Bridgestone's recall of 6.5 million Firestone tires last summer helped Goodyear.
"Most of it was probably fallout from the Firestone recall," Mr. Price said.
Goodyear also said that productivity gains cut $1.08 from the cost of every tire it shipped last year. In September 1999, Goodyear merged its European operations with Sumitomo Tire and Rubber's Dunlop plants, and retained 75 percent of the newly formed joint venture. As Goodyear integrated operations, it closed plants in Italy, Britain and elsewhere, replacing their output by converting plants that had shut on weekends to continuous operation. 
Still, the savings are unlikely to offset the impact of the slowing economy. "All the auto analysts are pessimistic about 2001, and that bodes ill for Goodyear," said Charles L. Hill, director of research at First Call. 
Goodyear increased prices by a small amount in December, but analysts doubt they will stick. DaimlerChrysler, one of Goodyear's largest customers, is already pressing for reductions. And Goodyear is selling more replacement tires through mass merchandisers like Wal-Mart Stores, which are known for striking tough bargains on prices.
Goodyear is trying to bolster sales by improving its product mix. Until last year, Goodyear sold only premium-priced Goodyear tires and inexpensive Kelly tires. But Goodyear bought 75 percent of Sumitomo's Dunlop operations in North American and has filled in the gap with midprice Dunlop tires.
Goodyear has also been reducing the number of types of tires it makes.
While analysts generally applauded the moves, some wondered what took so long.
"Goodyear is the leader in tire market share, but there's a reason its stock often underperforms," said David M. Garrity, an analyst with Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein. "It's been too slow to change." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TIRES (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (91%); TIRE MFG (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CLOSINGS (89%); RUBBER & SILICONE (89%); PLANT CLOSINGS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); EURO (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); TIRE DEALERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); SPOT MARKET (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (67%) TIRES; COMPANY REPORTS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (95%); BRIDGESTONE CORP (72%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO 

TICKER: GT (SWX) (95%); GT (NASDAQ) (95%); GT (BRU) (95%); 5108 (TSE) (72%); CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (95%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (95%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (95%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (95%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%) SIC3011 TIRES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: AKRON, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



378 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: METRO BRIEFING 

BYLINE:  Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
 NEW YORK

MANHATTAN: LAW FIRM LAYOFFS
Dewey Ballantine, one of Manhattan's most prominent law firms, confirmed yesterday that it had laid off some of its lawyers, only weeks after paying substantial year-end bonuses. Twelve midlevel and senior lawyers at the firm, which employs more than 300 people in New York, were laid off. Because of few resignations and a lack of other attrition -- in part because of a slowdown in hiring at investment banks and Internet start-ups -- the firm had too large a staff, said Sean M. Moran, the firm's hiring partner. No more layoffs are expected, he said. Jonathan D. Glater (NYT)

CHEEKTOWAGA: RAPPER TO BEGIN SENTENCE
The hip-hop star DMX plans to turn himself in for a 15-day jail sentence as early as next week, even though it will prevent him from attending the Grammy Award ceremonies on Wednesday, his press agent said yesterday. The rapper is a nominee for a Grammy. DMX, whose real name is Earl Simmons, was sentenced in May to 15 days for driving without a license. On Friday, a warrant for his arrest was issued after he failed to meet the court-ordered deadline to begin his jail term. (AP)

MANHATTAN: COUNCIL TERM LIMITS
Five City Council members and several groups vowed yesterday to oppose any deal that would curtail the city's campaign finance program in exchange for the mayor's signature on a bill repealing term limits for Council members. Under its new campaign finance program, the city gives candidates $4 for each $1 they raise in donations from city residents, an increase over the previous matching policy of $1 for each $1. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who has filed a lawsuit challenging the program, has said it is too generous and suggested on Monday that he might support a bid by 22 Council members to repeal term limits if they agreed to revise the matching-funds program. Eric Lipton (NYT)

WHITE PLAINS: 2 INDICTED IN CHECK SCHEME
Two Westchester businessmen were indicted yesterday in connection with the theft of more than $700,000 from Halliburton Oil, according to the Westchester district attorney's office. Edward Hartley, of Cortlandt Manor, was charged with stealing a check made out to a German company last August and depositing it under a false name. The other businessman, Fred Frenchman, of Elmsford, was charged with laundering the money after it was transferred. Robert Worth (NYT)

BROOKLYN: PLEA IN MEDICAID FRAUD
A physician's assistant who operated two medical clinics in Bedford-Stuyvesant has pleaded guilty in a Medicaid fraud case in which patients were seen by unsupervised physician's assistants or denied care, the state attorney general's office said yesterday. According to the complaint, Managed Healthcare Systems of New York, an H.M.O. for Medicaid patients, contracted in 1995 with two clinics run by Stuyvesant Heights Medical Group PC to provide 20 hours per week of care by doctors. The owner of the Bedford-Stuyvesant clinics, Jean Moise Millien, is to be sentenced Feb. 27. He faces one to three years in prison and a fine of $10,000. Jennifer Steinhauer (NYT)

QUEENS: WOMAN KILLED IN FIRE
A 73-year-old woman died in a house fire in Maspeth last night, police and fire officials said. Firefighters found the body of the woman, Grace Pates, in her bedroom at 61-08 60th Drive shortly after they arrived at 7:40 p.m., they said. The cause was still being investigated last night, but careless smoking was suspected, said Firefighter Dan Lynch, a Fire Department spokesman. Andy Newman (NYT)

HICKSVILLE: KEYSPAN STRIKE AVERTED
The KeySpan Corporation reached a tentative contract agreement late Tuesday night with the two unions representing its 3,200 workers, averting a strike that could have disrupted service for millions of electricity customers on Long Island. The agreement, arrived at 45 minutes before midnight, would increase wages 3.5 percent the first year of the contract and 3.75 percent in the second and third years, according to a union official. It would also allow management to create a new category of jobs. Michael Cooper (NYT)

MANHATTAN: NEW TRADE WASTE CHIEF
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani announced the appointment yesterday of Raymond V. Casey as chairman of the city's Trade Waste Commission, which regulates commercial trash rates. Mr. Casey, who has been acting chairman since his predecessor resigned in October, had been deputy commissioner and general counsel at the agency. Before that, Mr. Casey, a former prosecutor, was the Sanitation Department's inspector general for three years. William K. Rashbaum (NYT)

CONNECTICUT

STORRS: UCONN COMMENTS ON BUDGET
The University of Connecticut says Gov. John G. Rowland's budget proposal, announced last week, does not give the school enough funds to continue its programs. The governor's budget would give the university's campuses $187 million next year, $3.9 million more than they currently receive but $12.9 million less than the university says it needs for its current services and to keep up with inflation. In addition, the UConn Health Center in Farmington would receive $1.9 million less than it needs next year, said Lorraine Aronson, the university's chief financial officer. (NYT)

NEW JERSEY

TRENTON: DIFRANCESCO INQUIRY URGED
Two Democrats called yesterday for a state ethics investigation into a recently disclosed personal loan of $150,000 to Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco. The loan, made in 1994, was from a friend with ties to a firm that won a state auto-emission testing contract in 1998. State Senator Byron M. Baer and Assemblyman Charles Zisa wrote a joint letter to the Executive Commission on Ethical Standards seeking an inquiry into the loan, which was repaid in 1995. Senator William Gormley, a Republican, dismissed the effort as partisan. Iver Peterson (NYT)

WASHINGTON TOWNSHIP: CELL PHONE BAN
An assemblyman has introduced a bill that would ban school bus drivers in New Jersey from using cellular phones, even with a headset. The bill, which was introduced last month by Assemblyman Robert J. Smith, would fine bus drivers up to $250 per violation, said Yolette Ross, his chief of staff. Several municipal bans on hand-held phones in automobiles allow their use with headsets. Steve Strunsky (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (93%); LAYOFFS (92%); LEGAL SERVICES (91%); SENTENCING (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); TERM LIMITS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MATCHING GIFTS (88%); INDICTMENTS (87%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (87%); MAYORS (87%); SUITS & CLAIMS (86%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (86%); MEDICAID (86%); CITIES (86%); MEDICARE FRAUD (85%); LAW FIRM ATTORNEY RECRUITMENT (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); GUILTY PLEAS (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (74%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); STARTUPS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); HEALTH CARE (69%); MUSIC (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (68%); MONEY LAUNDERING (66%); ARREST WARRANTS (66%); ARRESTS (66%); CITY LIFE (65%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (64%); INTERNET & WWW (56%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: DEWEY & LEBOEUF LLP (91%); MANAGED HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (50%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



379 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Paying the Troops 

 BODY:
Defense has been this week's theme at the Bush White House, with three successive speeches dwelling on different aspects of the administration's ambitious national security agenda. The latter two speeches dealt with the important and contentious subjects of reforming the way the Pentagon buys weapons systems and a more restrictive approach to foreign peacekeeping missions. We want to dwell today, however, on the subject with which Mr. Bush quite properly began -- the pay, housing and morale of American troops. 
 There is such universal agreement on the need for improvement that the subject often gets passed over with quick discussion and quick fixes. Mr. Bush recognizes that military personnel form the foundation of all defense policy. So he has turned the nation's and Congress's attention to the most shamefully underfunded portions of the nearly $310 billion defense budget. Everyone's attention should stay there until something is done to improve the economic status and living conditions of the armed forces, especially its enlisted men and women. 
 On Monday Mr. Bush proposed a $5.7 billion increase in the amount to be spent on compensation and benefits in next year's Pentagon budget. Of this, $1.4 billion would go to pay, $3.9 billion to health care and $400 million to housing. Some of that will have to be diverted from other military programs, but pay and benefits have long been shortchanged. 
Currently, an entry-level recruit gets a basic salary of just under $1,000 a month, plus housing and allowances. A master sergeant with 18 years' service makes about $3,000 a month. Those figures include two recent increases provided by the Clinton administration, amounting to a little less than 9 percent. An additional 3.9 percent raise was scheduled for next year. Mr. Bush's proposal pushes that up to 4.6 percent. That is a healthy increase. But more will be needed in the years to come. More than 5,000 American military personnel still need food stamps to balance their monthly budgets.
Housing conditions are even more scandalous. Of the 300,000 military housing units, 200,000 are rated inadequate by the service's own minimal standards. Problems vary from too few bedrooms and bathrooms for the families housed in these units to health-threatening conditions like lead-based paint and asbestos. Much military housing is old and rundown and needs to be replaced. 
Mr. Bush's $400 million increase for housing will help only a little. Congress would have to appropriate about $20 billion for the military to rebuild all the substandard units. Since that is unlikely to happen anytime soon, the services should expand the recent practice of negotiating partnerships with private developers to meet military housing needs. 
In other defense speeches this week, Mr. Bush has made clear that once Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld has completed a thorough review of current Pentagon strategies and programs, the administration is likely to seek big spending increases for new weapons systems. To his credit, Mr. Bush has directed his first military spending requests to the area where more money is most obviously and urgently needed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); PEACEKEEPING (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ASBESTOS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (57%); LEAD PAINT (50%); LEAD (50%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EDITORIALS; WAGES AND SALARIES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



380 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: ASIA; 
JAPAN'S TRADE SURPLUS FALLS

BYLINE:  Reuters 

 BODY:
 Japan's current account surplus shrank 21 percent in December, as the slowing economy in the United States reduced export growth and higher oil prices raised the value of imports. 
The surplus in the current account, the broadest measure of trade in goods and services, fell 20.7 percent from a year earlier to 688.5 billion yen ($5.89 billion), its lowest level since January 2000, the Finance Ministry said. For all of 2000, the surplus on the current account inched up 3.7 percent, to 12.62 trillion yen. The figures were largely in line with expectations.

GRAPHIC: Chart tracks Japan's current account surplus from July to December. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (85%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



381 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: Harlem Sites To Be Pitched In Campaign For Tourists 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH P. FRIED 

 BODY:
For the first time since the "I Love New York" tourism promotions began in the 1970's, one of its the seasonal campaigns will focus solely on the state's cultural and historical tourist destinations, the Empire State Development Corporation, which runs the program, said yesterday. 
 Gov. 
George E. Pataki, in outlining the program's 2001 fall campaign, said Harlem would be among the locations promoted, along with upstate areas like Seneca Falls, birthplace of the women's suffrage movement in America, and the Revolutionary War battlefields at Saratoga. A spokeswoman for the Empire State Development Corporation, Maura Gallucci, said that cultural and historical sites had been incorporated in past campaigns but that a campaign focusing exclusively on such destinations recognized "this fast-growing market in the tourism industry." 
 Speaking at a luncheon for 170 Harlem business leaders at Jimmy's Uptown, a new restaurant on 130th Street and Adam Clayton Powell Boulevard, the governor also announced that the state would commit an additional $25 million to a fund that provides low-interest loans for economic development in Harlem and other parts of the city. Mr. Pataki said the five-year-old Metropolitan Economic Revitalization Fund has leveraged $511 million in investments and helped create nearly 4,000 jobs.
The program has provided loans for several Harlem projects, including the Pathmark supermarket in East Harlem and the Harlem Center, a retail building under construction on 125th Street and Malcolm X Boulevard. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURISM (91%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); RESTAURANTS (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (65%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (56%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



382 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 144 words

HEADLINE: AIDS and the Global Conscience 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "The Best Possible Investment in Africa," by Jeffrey Sachs (Op-Ed, Feb. 10): The AIDS epidemic in Africa creates a moral leadership issue for the United States and the world. 
 Mr. 
Sachs notes the large economic disparity between those living in Africa and those living in the developed countries. What is needed are grass-roots programs to improve all aspects of the quality of life for the people of Africa, including programs for education, training, health care and economic development, coupled with programs for the restoration and protection of the environment.
The "best possible investment" would address the need for clean water, improved food production (diversified production, not single crops grown on plantations or large mechanized farms) and across-the-board involvement with the people.

BRIAN LEWIS
Schaumburg, Ill., Feb. 11, 2001



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EPIDEMICS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); AGRICULTURE (66%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME 

PERSON: LEWIS, BRIAN; SACHS, JEFFREY 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (96%); UNITED STATES (90%) AFRICA

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



383 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Ecuador Group Said to Accept Ransom Deal 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: QUITO, Ecuador, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
Kidnappers who killed an American oil worker last month have agreed to an offer of ransom shortly before a deadline to kill another captive, Ecuador's military chief said today.
 "The criminal group said it would not execute anyone else, and I understand they have reached some economic arrangement," said the official, Vice Adm. 
Miguel Saona. 
 The body of the first victim, Ronald Sander, 54, of Sunrise Beach, Mo., was found in the jungle Jan. 31. 
Mr. Sander, a technician with the Tulsa, Okla.-based Helmerich & Payne Inc., was seized from oil camps in October in the El Coca jungle region, some 150 miles east of Quito. Nine other people were seized: four other Americans, a Chilean, an Argentine, a New Zealander and two Frenchmen (who escaped). 
The American captives have been identified as David Bradley, of Casper, Wyo., an oil field platform foreman for Helmerich & Payne; and Arnold Alford, Steve Derry and Jason Weber, all employees of the Oregon-based helicopter company Erickson Air-Crane Co., and residents of Gold Hill, Ore.
In a written statement, Helmerich & Payne said, "Based on recent events, the company has greater optimism regarding the safe return of our co-worker, David Bradley, and the other hostages presently held captive." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HELICOPTERS (52%) KIDNAPPING; HOSTAGES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: HELMERICH & PAYNE INC (84%); ERICKSON AIR-CRANE INC (69%)

TICKER: HP (NYSE) (84%); EAC (NASDAQ) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (84%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (84%); NAICS532411 COMMERCIAL AIR, RAIL & WATER TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (69%); SIC7359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING, NEC (69%) SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS; 

PERSON: SAONA, MIGUEL (VICE ADM); SANDER, RONALD 

GEOGRAPHIC: CASPER, WY, USA (79%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%) OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) ECUADOR (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); FRANCE (71%) ECUADOR; CHILE; ARGENTINA; NEW ZEALAND; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



384 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 3159 words

HEADLINE: Profits Raise Pressures On U.S.-Owned Factories In Mexican Border Zone 

BYLINE:  By SAM DILLON 

DATELINE: CIUDAD ACUNA, Mexico 

 BODY:
Juan Tovar Santos, an assembly-line worker in this border city, will not forget the time he traveled to Alcoa's annual shareholders meeting in Pittsburgh and confronted the chief executive about working conditions in Alcoa factories here.
 After Paul H. O'Neill, the Alcoa chief executive who became President Bush's treasury secretary last month, trumpeted the company's growing profits, Mr. Tovar stepped to a microphone. At the time Mr. Tovar, who was earning about $6 a day, described Alcoa managers so stingy that they stationed a janitor at bathroom doors to limit workers to just three pieces of toilet paper. He also recounted an incident in which more than 100 workers had been overcome by fumes from a gas leak and taken to hospitals. 
 Mr. O'Neill, stunned by the descriptions, defended conditions in Ciudad Acuna. "Our plants in Mexico are so clean they can eat off the floor," he said. 
"That's a lie," Mr. Tovar shot back, speaking in Spanish through an interpreter. He produced news clippings describing the hospitalization of his co-workers from the gas leak.
After Mr. O'Neill's own investigation determined that the chief executive of one of Alcoa's operations had covered up the leak, Mr. O'Neill dismissed him and began to improve conditions at the eight Acuna plants owned by Alcoa Fujikura Ltd., an Alcoa joint venture with a Japanese company. Today, Alcoa pays wages that are among Acuna's highest.
Still, since that meeting in 1996, tensions have continued to flare in this city across from Del Rio, Tex. There have been difficult meetings between Alcoa workers and managers to discuss pay, benefits and bathroom breaks. There was a confrontation last October in a factory parking lot in which Acuna police officers lobbed tear gas at disgruntled workers.
In Acuna, as in other border settlements, Mexican workers earn such miserable wages and American companies pay such minimal taxes that its schools are a shambles, its hospital crumbling, its trash collection slapdash and its sewage lines collapsed. Half of Acuna's 150,000 residents now use backyard latrines.
Over the years, Mexico and its people came to accept these conditions in return for steady jobs. But now everyone from Mexican tax officials to environmental experts in both countries are debating the rules, written and unwritten, under which the mostly American corporations have operated on the border. There is rising concern that as factories making everything from sneakers to televisions have spread through the developing world, labor rights and environmental standards have often been overlooked.
"Acuna is a disgrace," said Javier Villarreal Lozano, a Mexican historian who directs a government-financed institute in Coahuila, the state that includes Acuna. "A hundred years ago, U.S. employers would have been ashamed of these conditions. Henry Ford's workers living in cardboard boxes? He'd never have tolerated it." 
Executives now say Alcoa recognizes that its responsibilities in Mexico may not end at the industrial park gates.
In an interview last month, Robert S. Hughes II, Alcoa Fujikura's chairman and chief executive, said Alcoa's wages were among Acuna's highest, which local officials confirmed. The average wage for a 48-hour week at Alcoa's Acuna plants is $83, the company says. The Border Workers Committee, a group that has represented laborers in Acuna, put the average wage at $70.
Desribing Alcoa's environmental and safety practices here as "world-class," Mr. Hughes said the company bases its policies on "some very clear values around people." But he acknowledged that Acuna's crisis is troubling, and said Alcoa may step up its efforts at corporate philanthropy.
"You're asking me, do you like what you see when you drive through some of these residential areas -- and I've done this -- in Acuna, the same thing in Brazil, in Bangkok, in China, and the issue you're raising is important," Mr. Hughes said. "I don't think Alcoa can solve all the ills of Mexico, but we're trying to do what's right."
After Mexico's government began offering tax-exempt status to border assembly plants in the late 1960's, Jesus Maria Ramon Valdez, a son of the man who dominated Acuna politics for decades, began to bulldoze the family's sagebrush tracts into the city's first industrial parks and to invite foreign corporations to set up factories here known as maquiladoras. At first, many American executives were reticent, Mr. Ramon Valdez recalled in a recent interview.
"They said they didn't want to deal with Mexico as far as labor unions," said Mr. Ramon Valdez, who was elected Acuna's mayor in the early 1980's. To allay those fears, he said, he gave a financial stake in the industrial parks to a top local labor official. That has kept union organizers away from Acuna's plants ever since, Mr. Ramon Valdez said. "I've always managed the situation so that there are zero unions." 
When Acuna began inviting American corporations south, Alcoa was producing automotive wiring systems at plants in two Mississippi towns, said Jack D. Jenkins, an Alcoa executive who works with Mr. Hughes at Alcoa Fujikuri's headquarters in the prosperous Nashville suburb of Brentwood, Tenn. Taiwanese and other Asian competitors were beginning to produce wiring components more cheaply than Alcoa could in the United States, Mr. Jenkins said. "For us it was either move to Mexico or cease to exist," he said.
Alcoa built the first of its Acuna factories in 1982. Its arrival coincided with a frenzy of construction in Acuna as subsidiaries of many other American corporations, including General Electric and Allied Signal, started up maquiladora (pronounced mah-kee-lah-DOH-rah) manufacturing operations here.
When the foreign corporations began arriving in the 1970's, Acuna was a sleepy Rio Grande settlement of 40,000 residents. Its population exploded as thousands of dirt farmers and out-of-work laborers streamed in from elsewhere in Mexico. With nowhere to live, many built makeshift shelters on vacant land, a process that continues today. Hundreds of squatters even seized a railroad siding, building shanties on the tracks.
By the 1990's, Acuna was growing faster than any other city in northern Mexico, census officials said. Last year's census counted 110,388 residents in Acuna, but state and local officials called that a gross undercount, estimating Acuna's population in the range of 150,000 to 180,000. The city now has 60 plants. Despite the population explosion, there have often been more jobs than workers. So employers sent recruiters throughout Mexico to bring workers north.

A Struggle for Housing
One recruit was Isidro Esquivel Sanchez, who grew up in a desert town 350 miles south. In 1996 he was 21 and out of work when an Alcoa manager drove through, shouting with a loudspeaker about a better life in Acuna. It sounded good, Mr. Esquivel recalled, and he, his 19-year-old wife and two teenage siblings boarded an Alcoa bus.
When the convoy arrived in Acuna, the Esquivels and other recruits were dumped out in the central plaza on a Friday night and told to fend for themselves until Monday, when Alcoa's offices would open. Many of the bewildered workers slept on park benches; a kind Acuna woman let the Esquivels sleep on her floor, Mr. Esquivel said.
Mr. Hughes said that he doubted that Alcoa workers could have been treated so shabbily. "If this ever occurred it is a clear violation of the way we want to run our company," he said in the interview in a San Antonio hotel. An aide to Mr. Hughes acknowledged, however, that Alcoa provides no accommodations for recruits, instead asking them to pledge before the trip north that they have relatives who can put them up in Acuna.
Mr. Esquivel eventually got a job lugging boxes of parts to an Alcoa assembly line. He has lost all illusion that he has found a better life. "They work us like donkeys, and we come back to this," he said one evening, at the one-room, dirt-floor hovel with a rear outhouse that is home to him and his family.
Still, the Esquivels can say they have a house. Oscar Chavez Diaz, who worked for Alcoa until late last year, lives with his wife, Nelba, in the rusting carcass of a school bus.
They keep their clothes in a pile where the driver's seat used to be, and Mr. Chavez has installed a tiny three-burner stove and refrigerator beyond the bed, near the rear emergency door. He strapped an air conditioner to a side window to little effect; the bus still heats up like an oven in the sweltering summer sun. In winter it is an icebox.
Mr. Chavez bathes standing on his bus's front steps, ladling water from a bucket. The water comes from a spigot out front. It is undrinkable because the water filtration plant, which takes its water from the Rio Grande, was built almost 40 years ago, and cannot provide enough clean water for the area's swelling population.
During an interview in October, Mr. Chavez showed a reporter pay stubs indicating that his weekly Alcoa take-home pay was $60. He said he spent about $11 for bottled drinking water. About $5 went to rent the bus, $20 for electricity and $10 for busses and taxis, he said. (He has no car.) There was little left for food or clothing. His wife, who worked in another Acuna plant stitching leather seats for Chevrolet Corvettes, earned about the same as her husband. She was spending about $40 a week on their groceries, Mr. Chavez said.
Dr. Ruth A. Rosenbaum, a social economist based in Hartford, studied the purchasing power of Mexican workers in 11 border cities last year. She calculated that even using Mr. Chavez's wages to buy only the cheapest products available in Acuna, he had to work nearly a week last fall to outfit his son, Raul, 6, for school, 16 hours to earn enough to buy the cheapest sneakers, 12 hours for a bookbag, 9 hours for a pair of boy's pants, 3 hours for a little white shirt and 4 hours for notebooks and pencils. 
"You study these wages for a while and it makes you sick to your stomach," Dr. Rosenbaum said.

Support From the North
Two American church groups, the American Friends Service Committee and the Congregation of Benedictine Sisters, have been pressing for better treatment of Alcoa's Mexican workers. In 1996, they helped Mr. Tovar, then 30 and earning less than $35 a week, to travel to Pittsburgh for the annual Alcoa meeting.
When Mr. O'Neill, then Alcoa's chief executive, heard of the plans to bring a worker to the meeting, he telephoned Susan Mika, a Benedictine Sister, in San Antonio.
" 'Are you bringing workers from Mexico up to our annual meeting?' O'Neill asked me," Sister Mika recalled recently. "He was screaming. He was very upset."
But days later, using the Benedictine Congregation's ownership of Alcoa stock, Sister Mika helped Mr. Tovar enter the meeting. That is when Mr. Tovar confronted Mr. O'Neill about Alcoa's treatment of its Acuna workers, including the limits on toilet paper, which are not uncommon in public buildings in Mexico but seemed degrading to workers in the factory.
After that confrontation, Alcoa's toilet paper policy became more generous, cafeterias were modernized, and other conditions improved, Sister Mika and Alcoa workers said. Mr. O'Neill also ordered a significant pay increase.
But discontent continued. Last spring, a dispute over delayed paychecks in one Alcoa plant here set off a brief work stoppage. Weeks later, Mr. Hughes traveled to Acuna for a face-to-face encounter with laborers in a downtown taco restaurant. It was a rare meeting, as senior American executives almost never go to Mexico to discuss complaints directly with workers.
Sixty laborers showed up straight from the assembly line to meet Mr. Hughes and other Alcoa executives. Also present was Julia Quinonez, director of the Border Workers Committee.
Mr. Hughes, shirt sleeves rolled up and speaking through an interpreter, promised that there would be no reprisals for workers who spoke their minds. So they did, complaining that their pay was barely sufficient to stave off starvation. Mr. Hughes reminded workers that their compensation included not just wages, at that time about $7 a day, but also free bus rides to work, a $4.85 weekly grocery coupon and other benefits.
One laborer asked why Alcoa's profit-sharing payments, required by Mexican law, were so meager, especially as Acuna plants appear profitable and Mr. O'Neill had exercised $33 million in stock options beyond his $3 million salary in 1999. (Acuna workers said Alcoa made profit-sharing payments of about $40 a worker last year.) "The workers just told the truth about their lives," Ms. Quinonez recalled. "They were saying, 'Look, we're not robots."'
Mr. Hughes promised to study and perhaps revise Alcoa's compensation. Five months later, hundreds of workers grew impatient waiting for answers, and walked out of two Acuna plants to protest in an Alcoa parking lot. Acuna police surrounded them and fired tear gas. The protests spread, and the company was forced to negotiate, reinstating some fired workers. Scores of others quit, accepting severance payments obligated by Mexican law. One was Mr. Chavez, the worker living in the bus, who has since taken a job at another factory at about the same wage.
In November, Alcoa completed its study, and Mr. Hughes announced significant wage and benefit improvements. Mr. Tovar, who has worked at Alcoa for nine years, said his daily wage rose from $6.70 to $8.50. With bonuses for perfect attendance, grocery coupons and other benefits, his weekly compensation could now reach $90, he said.
Ricardo Hernandez, who has monitored Alcoa's practices in Acuna for the American Friends Service Committee, commended Mr. Hughes in a recent letter to him, while reporting that some Alcoa plant managers have recently threatened workers who participated in the October conflict.
A reporter who toured two of Alcoa's Acuna plants last month saw workers soldering electrical components and weaving the octopus-like wiring systems for automobiles along well-lit and ventilated assembly lines. Cafeterias were clean, and workers wore protective eyeglasses.

Governments Short on Money
But despite Alcoa's wage increases and improvements in factory conditions, its Acuna workers still live in a squalid grid of dirt streets, rotting garbage and swamps of open sewage.
Perhaps no one understands the problem better than Acuna's current mayor, Eduardo Ramon Valdez, a brother of the industrial park developer. In an interview, he said his city needs huge investments in potable water and paved streets. The fire department is virtually broke, so Del Rio, its twin city in Texas, has several times recently sent its fire trucks across the bridge, sirens shrieking, into Acuna to extinguish fires. Acuna's 60-year-old Social Security hospital, the basic health service for most factory workers, is outdated and overwhelmed. It has 45 beds; the city needs several times that many, he said.
And Acuna's 135 schools lack, well, nearly everything, the mayor said. "Every week I get some new plea from our teachers," the mayor said. "They need windows, toilets, drinking water. They want desks. They want a flag. It's an endless list."
But Acuna's 2000 budget was $9 million, he said, which means the city could spend just $60 on each resident. In contrast, the budget of Del Rio, population 45,000, is $32 million, allowing for a per capita expenditure of $777, 13 times as high.
Many experts blame the impoverishment on the government, which for decades has spent the lion's share of tax revenues in Mexico City. Mexico's new president, Vicente Fox, has vowed to be more generous with cities and towns and has promised a new focus on the border region's ills. Yet manufacturers along the border are not contributing much to the overall tax pie, and some officials have begun to question whether Mexico benefits from the tax breaks given to foreign companies.
Mexico City and Washington agreed in 1999 on a modest increase in the Mexican income taxes paid by American companies operating duty-free assembly plants here, while cutting their United States tax obligations by an equal amount, said Ricardo Gonzalez Orta, former President Ernesto Zedillo's director of tax policies. Historically, he said, American corporations have vigorously opposed increases in their Mexican taxes.
Asked how much Alcoa pays in taxes for its Acuna operations, a spokeswoman said in a written statement that in 1999, Alcoa's Acuna factories paid a $450,000 Coahuila state payroll tax, $7.8 million to Mexico's Social Security system and $2.4 million in federal taxes earmarked for low-cost housing. The statement appeared to indicate that Alcoa paid no income, property, asset, import, export, sales or value-added taxes that year in Acuna. The company spokesman, Bonita A. Cersosimo, did not respond to requests for clarification.
Alcoa's annual reports and other company documents suggest that Alcoa Fujikura's operations in Mexico are quite profitable. In the interview, Mr. Hughes declined to disclose the prices or profits earned on the electrical systems manufactured in Acuna, calling that proprietary information.
Alcoa donated a $50,000 ambulance to Acuna in 1998, and the following year, with Ford Motor, donated $52,000 to build the Ford-Alcoa elementary school, which has 300 students enrolled in six grades.
Patricia Perez, the lone teacher at the school during a reporter's visit last month, complained that the roof leaks, windows fall out, and no playground was built so that classrooms are surrounded by a sea of mud. But conditions appeared no worse than at scores of other broken-down Acuna schools.
In all, Alcoa donated some $170,000 to fund various Acuna civic projects last year, including support for a riverside park, an Alcoa spokeswoman said. "Wherever Alcoa operates around the world, we take being a good corporate citizen seriously," Mr. Hughes said in the interview. "We're wrestling right now with whether there's more we should be doing around community support in places like Acuna. Should we do more around housing, education, or health care?" 
The day after Mr. Hughes spoke in his Texas hotel room, a rooster's crow awoke Mr. Tovar long before the sun in his two-room mortar-block home in Acuna, where he shares a bed in a makeshift kitchen with his wife, Arcelia. She boiled water for coffee and fried some potatoes, wrapping them in flour tortillas for Mr. Tovar's lunch.
A hug and a kiss later, he was in his battered pickup truck, bumping across Acuna's rutted streets in a freezing drizzle. At an intersection, police were ankle deep in mud, trying to unsnarl traffic backed up behind a blocked drainage culvert. Mr. Tovar swerved onto a side street, driving frantically to reach Alcoa's Plant No. 5 before 7 a.m. He could not afford to lose his $3-a-week punctuality bonus.

The Dividing Line

The complete "Dividing Line" series on life along the Mexican side of the border is available at The New York Times on the Web:
www.nytimes.com/international

GRAPHIC: Photos: Slum housing surrounds an industrial park in Acuna, Mexico. The large building with orange trim at center is an Alcoa factory. (Phillippe Diederich for The New York Times); Oscar Chavez Diaz, a factory worker, eating dinner inside his home, a converted bus. (Wesley Bocxe for The New York Times) Map of Mexico highlights Acuna: Acuna's population has exploded since factories began arriving in the 1970's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); GAS LEAKS (88%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TRENDS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); WORKPLACE MORALE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); HISTORY (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (64%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (61%); TAX AUTHORITIES (61%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) SURVEYS AND SERIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; ENVIRONMENT; WORKING HOURS 

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (96%); ALCOA FUJIKURA LTD (66%)

ORGANIZATION: ;ALCOA INC 

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (96%); AA (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (96%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (96%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3643 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICES (66%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%) DILLON, SAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (92%) MEXICO; ACUNA (MEXICO)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



385 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: For Campaign Disclosure 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Mr. Hagel's Reform Ruse" (editorial, Feb. 10): We disagree with your characterization of our campaign finance legislation. 
 Capping soft-money donations at $60,000 a year is a dramatic reduction from unlimited donations reaching into the millions of dollars. Our increases in individual hard-money contributions merely reflect the effect of inflation on the 1974 limits.
You left unmentioned the growth of unaccountable outside organizations that spend millions of dollars on TV and radio ads and disappear without anyone's knowing who they were. Our bill requires disclosure of who is behind these ads, who is paying for them and how much money is being spent.
The purpose of this bill is to constitutionally limit, regulate and fully disclose campaign contributions. If changes are genuinely to improve the system, they must be able to withstand constitutional scrutiny.

CHUCK HAGEL
MARY LANDRIEU
Washington, Feb. 12, 2001

The writers are, respectively, a Nebraska Republican and a Louisiana Democrat in the United States Senate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); ELECTIONS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (85%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); RADIO ADVERTISING (69%) ELECTIONS; FINANCES; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: CHUCK HAGEL (92%); MARY LANDRIEU (72%) HAGEL, CHUCK (SEN); LANDRIEU, MARY (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



386 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Businesses Cut Inventories In December 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
Businesses, coping with dampened demand, worked off some excess inventory in December, the Commerce Department reported today.
 The report said that inventories of goods on shelves and lots rose 0.1 percent, to a seasonally adjusted $1.22 trillion. That matched the increase in sales, which rose to $896.8 billion. The increase was the smallest since an identical rise in inventories in January 1999. 
 To bring inventories more into line with demand, companies are laying off workers, reducing shifts to curb production and deeply discounting merchandise.
"The big December production cuts were successful in reining in the growth of inventories," Ken Mayland of ClearView Economics said. "While wholesalers may be a bit ahead in the adjustment process, retailers and manufacturers are clearly not sleeping at the switch. All are making progress."
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said on Tuesday that the economic slowdown over the last few months was more sudden than most businesses had anticipated. That, he said, resulted in a "backup in inventories despite the more advanced just-in-time technologies that have in recent years enabled firms to adjust production levels more rapidly to changes in demand." Economists said Mr. Greenspan seemed mildly optimistic about the prospects for healthier economic growth later this year.
The inventory-to-sales ratio, which measures how long it would take businesses to exhaust their inventories at December's sales pace, remained at 1.36 months, suggesting that companies were still holding excess supplies. The 1.36 level, reached in November, was the highest since April 1999.
In December, inventories at factories were flat at $493.6 billion after a 0.2 percent rise the month before. 
Retailers' inventories rose 0.3 percent, down from a 0.5 percent rise. Sales increased 0.1 percent after falling 0.6 percent in November. Auto dealers' inventories were up 0.1 percent in December, down from a 0.6 percent buildup the month before.
In November, total inventories rose by 0.3 percent, according to revised figures, not as strong as the government first reported. Sales fell 0.4 percent, slightly weaker than the initial estimate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); WHOLESALERS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); RETAIL SALES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); SALES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



387 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: MARKET PLACE; 
U.S. May Not Need to Borrow, but It May Still Need to Be in Debt

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
As government surpluses grow and the government comes closer to the possibility of closing down the Treasury securities market, the Bush Administration Treasury says it is considering ways to keep the market alive.
 "As long as we need to borrow money, we will try to maintain the viability and stability of the Treasury market as long as we can," Michael J. Paulus, the deputy assistant Treasury secretary for federal finance, said in an interview yesterday. 
 "Where we go from there is still being considered," he added. But the Treasury is looking at options that might keep the Treasury market going, he said, even if the financing is not immediately needed. 
Another Treasury official said that Paul H. O'Neill, the new Treasury secretary, "is learning about the idea." Both officials emphasized that the Treasury did not have a specific plan and was far from deciding whether such an approach was feasible.
The Treasury market serves several important functions: providing benchmarks for the pricing of other government and corporate bonds; allowing investors to hedge the risks associated with other securities; and creating a haven for investors in time of financial turmoil. Treasury officials in the Clinton administration and Wall Street professionals have generally argued that the bond market will be able to adapt to the loss of Treasury securities and find new benchmarks, other ways to hedge risk and other low-risk securities that will appeal to investors.
But discussion about the demise of the Treasury market and its consequences has been increasing along with projections of government budget surpluses. The surpluses are growing so fast that the Bush administration may be forced to consider ending the sale of new 30-year bonds this spring.
The latest projection from the Congressional Budget Office shows a $5.61 trillion surplus over the next decade. Based on that projection, the Treasury will have curtailed issuance and bought back enough debt by fiscal 2006, which begins on Oct. 1, 2005, to bring an end to an active Treasury market, according to bond market analysts. President Bush's proposed tax cut of $1.6 trillion over 10 years would certainly reduce that surplus and delay the market's demise -- but only for a few years.
All the projections, however, depend on continued economic growth and political restraint when it comes to tax cuts and spending increases. Given how hard that proves to be for politicians, some analysts are reluctant to close down the Treasury market. Deficits and government borrowing could be back in no time, they argue.
James R. Capra, the chairman of the Treasury borrowing advisory committee of the Bond Market Association, which provides Wall Street's view on how to scale down the Treasury market, says it is impossible to keep the market alive once its financing purpose is gone.
But he also said it would not be difficult to reconstruct the Treasury market should the government need additional financing. "I don't believe it's hard to put it back together again," he said.
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said on Tuesday in testimony before Congress that the benefits of paying off the national debt outweighed the problems that would arise from closing the Treasury market.
In testimony before the Senate Banking Committee, Mr. Greenspan said that all things being equal, there was no doubt that "it would be better to have a large Treasury debt outstanding so that those of us who deal in the financial markets have easy benchmarks and easy means of pricing and of funding." But, he added, "the trade-off very clearly says by far the most important thing is to get the debt down, and we will handle the problems as best we can."
The advisory committee, headed by Mr. Capra, concluded in a January report to Treasury that "if the budget outlook does not change" the 30-year bond will have to be eliminated. A majority of the committee said that issuance of the 30-year bond should be stopped "in the near future, while a sizable minority remained skeptical about the budget and policy outlook and believe that near-term elimination was not justified."
Most of the committee members agreed that the Treasury should stop issuing the 30-year Treasury inflation protected security, known as TIPS, as soon as possible. The members said that this security could be more costly to buy back in the future and that it was raising the current cost of borrowing for the Treasury.
The committee also suggested a way, if the Treasury wanted, to keep issuing for a while longer 30-year bonds and 10-year notes. The 10-year note has become the benchmark security for the Treasury market.
The committee proposed an exchange offering program, under which the Treasury would issue new 30-year bonds and 10-year notes only in exchange for existing bonds and notes. This would keep the total outstanding constant.
Such a program, the committee said, would allow the issuance of 30-year bonds to continue until the "budget and policy outlook became more certain."
As for the 10-year note, committee members suggested an exchange-offering program might be needed in a few years to extend its life if government surpluses keep cutting into the size of the Treasury market.
"If the surpluses keep going the way they are, we are not going to be talking about long bonds but 10-year notes in the near future," Mr. Capra said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); BUDGET FORECASTS (69%); TAX LAW (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); POLITICS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT BONDS 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%) CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



388 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Easing Up at the Border 

BYLINE:  By Pamela S. Falk; Pamela S. Falk, professor of international law at the City University of New York, is former staff director of the House Western Hemisphere subcommittee.

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
Both President Bush and Vicente Fox, the president of Mexico, are saying that Mexican migration to the United States will be on their agenda when they meet tomorrow at Mr. Fox's ranch. Most Americans understand what a big issue this is for domestic politics in the United States. Fewer may realize that it is also a subject of great internal interest in Mexico.
 Many Mexicans are deeply concerned about the hostility and even violence that meet their countrymen at the border. President Fox wants the United States to begin to open the border and stop mistreatment of the Mexicans who work hard in American harvests and labor in American cities. "Open borders will take time to phase in," Mr. Fox said last year, "but building up walls, putting up arms and dedicating billions of dollars, as every border state in the United States is doing to avoid migration, is not the way." 
 Both Mr. Bush and Mr. Fox wisely support an increase of temporary legal immigration to the United States. Mr. Bush has an excellent opportunity to achieve an expansion in the number of temporary guest workers -- with adequate protections against employer abuses -- given bipartisan support of the general idea in Congress last fall. One proposal would have allowed Mexicans to work legally in American agriculture for several months a year and return to Mexico. It would also have given those laborers a right to adjust their immigration status to permanent residency after several years. The measure ultimately died, but such a proposal has a chance of passage this year if Mr. Bush places it on his agenda.
Mr. Fox also wants an amnesty program for Mexicans living illegally in the United States. Today, about 7 million Mexican-born immigrants, legal and illegal, live in the United States, sending about $6 billion a year home to their families. That makes Mexican migrants the third-largest source of foreign exchange in Mexico, behind oil and tourism.
But few Americans share Mr. Fox's view of the amnesty issue. Though he has retreated from his earlier advocacy of a fully open border, he now proposes a program of tearing down the border over the course of several decades as a way to help strengthen the two nations' trade relationship and raise the Mexican standard of living. Many Americans, fearing competition for jobs and depression of wages, view even this less ambitious proposal with dismay.
The last amnesty bill was passed 15 years ago and was the right thing to do, both economically and morally. Mr. Fox is not unrealistic, however, about this issue. He understands that the border cannot be open now, when an average worker in Mexico earns $5 a day and one in the United States earns at least 10 times more.
Mr. Fox likes to compare the Mexican-American relationship to the European Union, where richer countries helped pull the poorer countries up in economic terms. Over time, he says, this sort of transformation here could create an open border and open market for services, goods and workers. The flow of Mexican workers has, as Mr. Fox argues, become an important component of American economic growth.
The Bush administration's support for guest worker programs is a sound start on regularizing migration between the two nations. Though previous administrations have had reservations about guest workers, employers have wanted the program. In Congressional testimony last summer, the National Council of Agricultural Employers said, "Labor from Mexico has supported the development of irrigated agriculture in the Western states from the inception of the industry."
Migration is not the only issue on the presidents' agenda. For Mr. Bush, this meeting is a first step in establishing credibility on foreign policy. He is likely to stress the need to battle the illegal drug trade and to agree on how to get energy from Mexico, with its oil and gas riches, to California.
But the Hispanic population will become the largest minority in the United States in the next few years, according to census projections. And by 2050, a quarter of Americans will be Hispanic. This constituency cares about immigration and Latin American issues, and Mr. Bush clearly must be sensitive to those interests.
The meeting is especially important for Mr. Fox, whose two months in office have been marred by several embarrassing jail breaks by drug lords. He needs to come away from the meeting with some sort of American commitment to binational partnership, especially on the migration issue. A guest worker program and an amnesty for longtime residents should be pursued vigorously in this Congress. With Mexicans crossing the border each day, it is an issue Mr. Bush cannot avoid. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); AMNESTY (86%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); REFUGEES (76%); FOREIGN LABOR (75%); IMMIGRATION LAW (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); LIVING STANDARDS (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%) FALK, PAMELA S (PROF); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (50%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



389 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Ferrer Gets Backing for Mayor by McCall and Others 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN P. HICKS 

 BODY:
Taking his turn in the game of early election year endorsements, Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx borough president, was joined by about two dozen elected officials who support his bid for mayor in a news conference on the City Hall steps yesterday. And today, Mr. Ferrer plans to announce the backing of H. Carl McCall, the state comptroller.
 An endorsement by Mr. McCall, one of the highest-ranking Democratic officials in the state, would be by far the most significant support Mr. Ferrer has won. It would come as the four major Democratic candidates are starting to parade their highest-profile supporters. 
 On Monday, William J. Bratton, the former New York City police commissioner, endorsed Public Advocate Mark Green for mayor, as part of the effort to paint Mr. Green as a crime-fighting candidate in his campaign to succeed Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.
If he wins, Mr. Ferrer will be the city's first Puerto Rican mayor, and his endorsements are intended to portray him as a candidate who can bring together people across a wide spectrum. The backing of Mr. McCall, the first black politician to win statewide office, is seen as important at least symbolically in putting together a coalition of Hispanic, black and liberal white New Yorkers.
"I've known Freddy for a long time," Mr. McCall said last night, "and we have worked together on a number of things. I think he would make a great mayor."
Mr. McCall's endorsement, seven months before the primary, comes unusually early in the campaign season, particularly for a high- ranking official. Mr. McCall, who is expected to face the former federal housing secretary, Andrew M. Cuomo, in the race for governor next year, also said: "I'm asking people to step up and make endorsements in a primary that I might be involved in. So I think it is important for me to do the same."
Of the other Democrats in the race for mayor, Mr. McCall said, "I have a good relationship with all of them and have spoken with all of them in the last few days." But, he added, "This is the choice I have made."
At his news conference on the City Hall steps, Mr. Ferrer did not mention any of his opponents and offered no criticism of them whatsoever. Instead, he pointed some sharp criticism at the man he hopes to succeed.
"I am not Rudy Giuliani, and I am not seeking to be Rudy Lite," Mr. Ferrer said. "Our city needs to be led in a new direction, and we are forging a broad-based coalition among leaders and grass-roots activists across this city who will do just that."
He said he intended to represent "communities of New York that have been shut out and shut down for eight years."
Mr. Ferrer and Mr. Giuliani have tangled over a number of issues since the beginning of the Giuliani administration, most notably a plan to abandon Yankee Stadium in the Bronx in favor of a new stadium in Manhattan. And Mr. Ferrer's criticism of the mayor has been as sharp as Mr. Giuliani's responses.
Nonetheless, speaker after speaker, most of them from the Bronx, portrayed Mr. Ferrer as someone who worked well with other leaders and helped develop housing and economic opportunity in the Bronx.
Not all of Mr. Ferrer's endorsers were from the Bronx. They included Assemblywoman Catherine T. Nolan of Queens, City Councilman Philip Reed of Manhattan and Assemblyman Darryl C. Towns of Brooklyn.
Mr. Ferrer talked of his desire to improve the quality of education in the public schools and to make health care more widely available.
Four years ago, Mr. Ferrer ran for mayor and assembled notable support from a number of black politicians throughout the city, but he withdrew abruptly before the primary, making some of his supporters ambivalent about his candidacy this time. 
Indeed, some of Mr. Ferrer's political supporters from the 1997 race have indicated that they are considering endorsing Mr. Green or one of the other Democrats in the race: Alan G. Hevesi, the city comptroller, and Peter F. Vallone, the City Council speaker.
Mr. Ferrer said he intended yesterday's news conference to demonstrate that he continued to appeal to a wide range of New Yorkers.
He closed it by saying, "This is the beginning of a great coalition."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fernando Ferrer, center, the Bronx borough president, with some of the two dozen Democratic officials, many but not all from the Bronx, who joined him at City Hall yesterday to support his candidacy for mayor. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); MAYORS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); CITIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); LIBERALISM (71%); RANKINGS (71%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ENDORSEMENTS; GOVERNORS (US) 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (78%); ANDREW CUOMO (56%) HICKS, JONATHAN P; FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES); MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



390 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1922 words

HEADLINE: Union Drive Collides With Korean Grocers 

BYLINE:  By SARAH KERSHAW 

 BODY:
Kum Lee, a Korean immigrant who was eager to open his own business, hired two Mexican clerks and opened a 24-hour greengrocery in Manhattan last March. Two months later, there was a picket line outside Mr. Lee's store, the Olympic Deli on First Avenue, over the low wages he paid his workers.
 Bardominano Feliciano, 36, came to New York six months ago from Guerrero, Mexico, and landed a job at an Upper East Side greengrocery owned by Koreans. He works 12 hours a day, six days a week, for $240 a week, well below minimum wage. 
 Mr. Lee and Mr. Feliciano, two proud men willing to work long, hard days, are in the middle of a bitter citywide dispute between greengrocers and their workers, a volatile clash that combines economics, immigrant ambitions and a labor union's sense of opportunity. 
The dispute, fueled by an aggressive campaign by Local 169 of the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees, has pitted Korean immigrants -- no strangers to explosive tensions with other ethnic groups -- against Mexican immigrants. Sixty percent to 70 percent of the city's roughly 2,000 greengroceries are owned by Koreans, and most of their workers, an estimated 10,000, are Mexican immigrants.
The tensions have mobilized the fast-growing population of Mexican immigrants and gripped the Korean merchants, still nursing bitter memories of ethnic clashes that fueled a black-led boycott of a Brooklyn greengrocer in 1990 and anti-Korean violence in the 1992 riots in Los Angeles. There are about 120,000 Koreans in the city.
The conflict has dominated the city's Korean-language media for more than a year and has prompted some Korean merchants, who have long viewed the greengrocery business as a steppingstone to economic success here, to fight the union. Many of the merchants say the working conditions for the Mexicans -- long hours, no vacations or benefits -- are the same ones they endured while learning the business from earlier generations of Jewish and Italian greengrocers or while running their own businesses.
And, the merchants say, the business models for their own stores assumed that low-cost labor would continue, so concessions to their workers threaten already slim profit margins.
Other merchants are addressing the workers' complaints, raising wages and shortening workdays. But a growing number are leaving the greengrocery business.
"There's too much damage in my community," said Jae Il Kim, president of the SoHo-Village Merchants Association. "Everybody's scared," he said. "We want to live with the Hispanic community, but now Korean people and Spanish people, they have a problem."
Both the union and the state attorney general, Eliot L. Spitzer, who is investigating working conditions, say there are widespread violations of labor laws at the greengroceries, with workers being paid as little as $3 an hour for workweeks that sometimes exceed 70 hours. So far, the union has signed contracts with only seven of the city's greengrocers. The union has stepped up its efforts in recent weeks, picketing or leafletting outside more than 60 stores across the city. 
Mr. Spitzer, whose investigation has led to settlements with three grocers for back wages, said the labor-law violations were not limited to Korean-owned groceries. Minimum wage is $5.15 an hour and, under the law, workers must be paid at least time and a half, $7.73, for every hour over 40 hours in a week.
Union officials also say that they have found poor conditions in stores owned by ethnic groups other than Koreans, like Indians and Arabs, but that they have encountered the most resistance from the Koreans.
Korean-American business leaders have formed a special task force on the conflict and have hired a labor consultant from Los Angeles.
Last month, nine Korean-American merchants, clergy members and business leaders -- trailed by reporters from three Korean-language newspapers -- filed into the offices of Local 169 on West 14th Street for the first face-to-face meeting with union officials. But several of them stormed out of the heated meeting, and both sides concluded that little was accomplished.
Mr. Kim and others, including merchants and business leaders, say many greengrocers had little knowledge of labor laws until the union and Mr. Spitzer's office began contacting them. They say that once the merchants were made aware of the laws, most complied, although there has been no comprehensive review of financial records to prove that they did, and many merchants have not kept payroll records, paying their workers in cash.
"Most of the stores are paying minimum wage, overtime, everything," said Hong K. Chun, executive director of the Korean Produce Association, which represents 820 merchants in New York City. "On that point, we can give credit to the union. They prompted us to rethink our way of doing business. But they are going too far."
Mr. Chun said the greengrocery industry had already been squeezed by competition, and more merchants, citing dwindling profits and the labor dispute, are bailing out. He said membership in his association was down from 1,200 merchants five years ago.
Accusations that the Korean-American merchants were too insular arose in 1990 during a widely publicized black-led boycott of a Korean-owned greengrocer on Church Avenue in Flatbush, Brooklyn. The boycott, which lasted nine months, began after the owner accused a black customer of shoplifting.
Mr. Chun said his organization urged the greengrocers then to "have patience with customers" and "get involved in community activities with the black community, black ministers." And he said that merchants responded, participating in neighborhood improvement efforts and sponsoring scholarships and other programs.
He said his organization was now advising the merchants to be respectful to the Mexican immigrant workers. "We are telling them, 'Don't look down at them, don't use the bad language,' " he said. "That's the only way you can stay in business."
But a dozen greengrocery workers interviewed in the last few weeks suggested that things had not changed much. They said they were still making less than minimum wage or were not receiving time-and-a-half overtime pay. Many said they felt that management mistreated them or treated them differently than Korean-American workers. But few, including Mr. Feliciano, who has told union officials about his working conditions, were willing to identify the stores, saying they feared retribution.
Ernesto Dominguez Conde, 28, said he worked at East Natural Food Market, a greengrocery on Fifth Avenue and 13th Street owned by Jacob Han and his sister Josephine Kim, for four years, stocking shelves and cleaning. He started out being paid $220 a week for 72 hours, he said, and was making $350 for the same number of hours when he asked for a raise. He said Ms. Kim told him that a raise would be "a lot of money for you" and that "I can replace you with a cheaper Mexican."
Mr. Conde said he quit in 1999, returned to Mexico for several months, and was then rehired at another store owned by the same owners. But he said he was laid off in December without explanation.
Ms. Kim did not respond to four telephone messages left since last week. A lawyer for the owners, Larry Cole, did not return two phone calls this week.
Mexican immigrants have flocked to the greengrocers in recent years because the work requires little English (many store owners do not speak English, either) and they are paid under the table in cash. Regardless of their immigration status -- most of those working in the groceries are in the country illegally -- the workers are protected by state and federal labor laws.
The Mexican Workers Association, an advocacy group in New York City, began a series of boycotts and pickets at stores in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn, in 1998 after hearing complaints about working conditions from greengrocer employees there. Local 169 joined the effort a few months later. Since then, the union has focused its efforts on Manhattan, where it is now leading boycotts and picketing at four Korean-owned stores. Three stores are owned by Mr. Han and Ms. Kim, who have been locked in a fierce battle with Local 169 for months. Mr. Han refused to comment on the dispute.
Because most of the workers are illegal immigrants, they are reluctant to stand up for their legal rights or to support a union contract, union officials say. 
"In terms of not paying workers and so forth, people understand what they are doing," the organizing director for Local 169, Jeff Eichler, said of the merchants. "They say they didn't know about minimum wage, but they know."
Mr. Lee, of the Olympic Deli, acknowledged he had been paying his workers $4.50 per hour with no overtime pay before the union approached him last year. He said he then raised wages.
But one of his employees, Abraham Martinez, 47, said recently that he was being paid $300 per week for 9 to 10 hours of work, six days a week, which would mean he was receiving minimum wage but not overtime pay. However, Mr. Martinez, an immigrant from Puebla, Mexico, who has worked for Mr. Lee since the store opened, said he had no complaints about the job, liked working for Mr. Lee and did not want to join the union.
Mr. Lee, 48, said the union's picket line in front of his greengrocery lasted six months, wiping out what little profit he had. "Other stores, they are struggling, too," said Mr. Lee, sitting on a milk crate in an unheated storage room in the back of his store, on First Avenue near 13th Street. "I didn't know about this. If I knew, I don't think I would have started."
Mr. Lee refused to sign a contract, and the union eventually backed off, saying it would shift its focus to larger stores, Mr. Eichler said.
In most cases, Local 169 has been unable to get the votes needed to begin unionizing a workplace -- more than half of the workers in a given business, according to federal and state labor laws. Union officials say that is because the store owners have intimidated the workers; merchants deny the claim.
While few merchants openly acknowledge it, several Korean-Americans watching the situation closely say the merchants' own experiences -- working long hours for low wages, including in their own stores -- may have shaped their views about the union's demands.
"A lot of the greengrocer owners worked for Jewish and Italian owners," said Jonghun Kim, a reporter for The Korea Central Daily News in Queens, who has been writing about the dispute for two years. "And they worked 12 hours a day, their whole families worked together. They gathered up the money and bought the stores. They had no benefits. They didn't even think about that."
Roy Hong, a consultant on labor-management disputes and former executive director of Korean Immigrant Workers Advocates in Los Angeles, who has been advising the Korean-American merchants in New York City for more than a year, said he thought many greengrocers had mistreated their workers.
"The mentality of these greengrocers is one of survival," he said. "Then they got essentially called out when the union began their campaign and they were caught with complete disregard for minimum labor standards."
But Mr. Hong has also criticized the union's tactics. "The union has to recognize this is a mom-and-pop industry," he said. "Even though it's a bare-bones contract, many of them are not going to be able to pay. In those cases, they need to back off -- not completely back off, because it's a moral victory. The moral victory is that it's no longer a sweatshop."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Soon after Kum Lee opened his greengrocery, a picket line formed. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); GARMENT WORKERS (91%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); RIOTS (88%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (77%); WORK WEEK (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (71%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (67%); ETHNICITY (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (61%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%) FOOD; KOREAN-AMERICANS; MEXICAN-AMERICANS; WAGES AND SALARIES; WORKING HOURS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ORGANIZED LABOR; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; FRINGE BENEFITS; PICKETING 

ORGANIZATION: UNITE HERE (83%) UNION OF NEEDLETRADES, INDUSTRIAL AND TEXTILE EMPLOYEES 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (57%) KERSHAW, SARAH; SPITZER, ELIOT L (ATTY GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



391 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Plans to cut taxes may be clever politics, but they're not wise fiscal policy.

BYLINE:  By Jeff Madrick; This column appears here every Thursday. Jeff Madrick is the editor of Challenge Magazine and a new collection of essays, "Unconventional Wisdom: Alternative Perspectives on the New Economy." E-mail: jgmadrick@mesharpe.com

 BODY:
IT'S a little ironic that George W. Bush chose to screen the movie "Thirteen Days" at the White House for members of the Kennedy family recently. In the film, a dramatized account of the Cuban missile crisis, President John F. Kennedy makes every effort to avoid frightening the American people into a panicky response to the threat of missiles just off the coast.
 But President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney have not hesitated to take the opposite approach when it comes to the economy. With deceptively mild demeanors, they are warning about the possibility of an imminent recession as a way to sell their tax-cut package to the nation. 
 And the tactics are working. Now the Democrats are also clamoring for substantial tax cuts, if tilted more toward the middle class and poor than the wealthy.
Unfortunately, even if you believe some stimulus is needed, as I do, the result of these tactics will be poor economic policy no matter what the final compromise is.
There are three confusing issues. First, contrary to some claims, fiscal stimulus can work. But it has to be applied soon.
"The financial press has got it all messed up by claiming that the Fed can do it all," says Lawrence Klein of the University of Pennsylvania, a winner of the Nobel in economic science. He thinks monetary and fiscal policies have always worked best in tandem and favors a cut in taxes as insurance against a steep recession.
Moreover, Professor Klein thinks that fiscal stimulus can have a quick impact on the economy. "Just reduce the withholding rates," he says.
But the Bush tax package is not the best way to accomplish this. It largely benefits the wealthy who mostly save rather than spend the extra money. Even if Bush pushes more of the tax cut into the first year and promises to make it retroactive to Jan. 1, the complex tax package will inevitably be bogged down in Congress at least through the summer, delaying any stimulus until after the bill is signed. 
The second area of confusion is how tax cuts actually stimulate the economy. Traditional Keynesians believe that a cut in taxes stokes the economy by simply putting money in people's pockets. Such stimulus is temporary by definition.
To its supporters, though, the justification for the large Bush tax cut over 10 years is that it increases incentives to work and invest. The Bush administration would reduce the top rate of 39.6 percent to 33 percent, for example. But history strongly suggests that such incentives are modest at best and are usually overwhelmed by other factors.
There has been little relationship across history between levels of taxes and growth rates in advanced nations. In the post-World-War-II period, the American economy, for example, did best in the 1950's and 1960's when the maximum tax rate on some forms of income was as high as 90 percent, reduced to a still-high 70 percent in 1964.
Mr. Bush can find little support for his point of view in President Ronald Reagan's record, either. Maximum tax rates were reduced from 70 to 50 percent and eventually to 28 percent. But despite a few years of rapid growth after the harsh 1982 recession, productivity growth on balance failed to improve and savings rates fell in the Reagan years.
A study of the work habits of the well-off in a new book of essays on tax policies, "Does Atlas Shrug?" edited by Joel B. Slemrod (Russell Sage and Harvard University Press, 2000), reinforces this argument. Robert A. Moffitt and Mark Wilhelm, economists at Johns Hopkins University and Indiana University, found that high-income men did not work more hours in response to the especially generous tax cuts in the 1980's. 
There is always a counterargument to such findings, of course, and economists like Martin Feldstein of the National Bureau of Economic Research and Lawrence Lindsey, President Bush's top economic adviser, have argued that well-off Americans were motivated to raise their incomes in these years by adopting strategies other than working more.
Such arguments do not withstand closer scrutiny, either. Austan Goolsbee, an economist at the free-market-oriented University of Chicago and a colleague of Mr. Feldstein at the economic research bureau, reports in "Does Atlas Shrug?" that incomes rose in the 1980's for high-income Americans for reasons distinct from tax incentives. 
The third issue is the most important. For all the talk about recession and returning the budget surplus to taxpayers, the Bush tax cut is about what kind of government, and indeed what kind of society, Americans want. If income tax rates are cut significantly, draining potential revenues that could be applied to overcoming national problems, they will be very difficult to restore.
In fact, America has only imposed serious income tax levies in times of crisis -- the Civil War, World War I and World War II. Even the relatively modest tax increases of 1990 and 1993 were undertaken only after years of towering budget deficits.
Once peace was won, tax rates were invariably reduced and usually sharply. Before these reductions, however, the high taxes enabled the federal government to invest in internal improvements like highways and in social programs like unemployment insurance. This pattern of taxing to fight war and then using the revenue after the war for social spending goes back to the War of 1812.
Are rates too high today? Big budget surpluses are certainly not a reliable indicator of this. The economy may well have just passed its cyclical peak, so growth in tax revenue may also have peaked. And a great deal of today's revenue is from capital gains earned in the soaring stock market. This source of tax revenue will soon dry up.
But the main question is whether the American people think the federal government is doing all that they want done. The Bush proposal, by cutting future tax revenue, reduces the potential for the government to invest in education, health care, day care, technological research and the military, not to mention to ensure the future of Social Security and Medicare.
The Bush tax package, then, is really about reducing the size of government, not about responding to the threat of recession. The best way to stimulate the economy is through a temporary tax cut, or a rebate, that does not undermine the nation's long-term capacity to raise tax revenue to pay its way, make life better or simply avoid big deficits.
If confounding the public to achieve one's agenda is good politics, then President Bush deserves congratulations. Meantime, the Democrats, full of sound and fury, are essentially humming a pretty similar tune.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Kennedy and Bush administrations seem to be at opposite poles when it comes to alarming the public. "Thirteen Days" is a film about the Cuban missile crisis of 1962. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RECESSION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (66%); AWARDS & PRIZES (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%) TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); DICK CHENEY (58%) MADRICK, JEFF; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN); ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



392 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-17

Bus Driven by Palestinian Kills 8 Israelis and Hurts 17
A Palestinian bus driver drove his vehicle into a crowd of soldiers and commuters at a bus stop south of Tel Aviv, killing eight people. The driver had passed a strict Israeli security clearance just two weeks ago. A1

President Bush condemned the attack, calling for an end to the cycle of "violent action and reaction" and offering condolences by telephone to Prime Minister Ehud Barak. A14

Warning From Ukrainian Leader
President Leonid D. Kuchma has told political opponents that he will protect himself in an unfolding crisis over corruption and the killing of a journalist, Western officials said after a leading opposition figure was arrested. A3

A Russian Revival of Sorts
The Federal Security Service, the domestic successor to the K.G.B., announced that it would renew the practice of investigating anonymous accusations of crimes. Human rights advocates and liberal politicians say the practice is illegal and a step back toward a Soviet-style police state. A5

Old Enemies Broach Detente
Armenia and Turkey are said to have initiated quiet diplomatic contacts to evaluate prospects for cooperation and the opening of their border. A10

Powell's Assurances to U.N.
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell assured Secretary General Kofi Annan in a meeting at the United Nations that he could count on strong support from the Bush administration across a wide spectrum of activities. A15

Prospective Envoy to London
William S. Farish, a wealthy horse breeder who is a longtime friend of both the Bush family and Queen Elizabeth II, is expected to be nominated for ambassador to Britain. A4

Taiwan Nuclear Plant Revived
Prime Minister Chang Chun-hsiung said that despite objections from its own party, the government had yielded to opposition pressure to resume building a $5.5 billion nuclear power plant, for the sake of "political stability and economic development." A13

World Briefing A6

NATIONAL A18-29

Clinton's Pardon of Rich Is Subject of U.S. Inquiry
The Justice Department has begun a criminal investigation into the events surrounding former President Bill Clinton's pardon of Marc Rich, government officials said. A1

Justice Dept. Nominations
President Bush chose Larry D. Thompson for deputy attorney general and Theodore B. Olson for solicitor general. Mr. Thompson, 55, a former federal prosecutor from Atlanta, helped shepherd the nomination of Justice Clarence Thomas through the Senate. Mr. Olson, 60, represented the Bush campaign before the Supreme Court in the ballot dispute. A26

Parting Ways on Prescriptions
The chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Charles E. Grassley, said he would press for a consensus on legislation to add prescription benefits to Medicare, rather pursue President Bush's campaign proposal for a restructuring of Medicare. A24

More Limited Use of Military
President Bush said he would send American forces overseas more judiciously, saying "overdeployments" strained troops, families and, in the case of members of the National Guard and Reserves, employers. A26

Admiral Arranged for Visitors
The submarine trip for civilians that led to the sinking of a Japanese fishing vessel off Hawaii, leaving nine people missing, was arranged by an admiral, Richard C. Macke, who was forced to retire in 1995 after he made an offensive remark about the rape of an Okinawan girl, officials said. A27

Labor Secretary Visits Union
Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao visited an A.F.L.-C.I.O. executive council meeting, promising to listen to leaders' views while acknowledging that the administration and labor would inevitably have differences. A21

ARTS E1-12

On Giving $50 Million
The investor Alberto W. Vilar, 60, said his $50 million gift to the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts would establish an institute to train arts administrators and underwrite Washington performances of the Kirov Opera and Ballet. E1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

La Guardia Flight Delays Lead the Nation's List
An analysis of the 100 airline flights that were most frequently canceled or severely delayed last year shows that half were scheduled to land at or take off from La Guardia Airport. A1

Fake Heir Guilty of Fraud
Luigi A. Alexander, 55, pleaded guilty to defrauding 70 people in Westchester and Connecticut of nearly $4 million in two years. B1

Neediest Cases B4

SPORTS D1-8

OBITUARIES C19

SCIENCE/HEALTH

New Rules on Altered Food
The European Union Parliament approved a measure to allow strictly controlled use of genetically modified organisms, preparing the way for an end to Europe's moratorium on bio-engineered seeds and food. A1

Doctors Sue H.M.O.'s
Two groups representing 7,000 Connecticut doctors sued six large H.M.O.'s, accusing the companies of harming patients by arbitrarily denying crucial medical treatment and illegally withholding payments. B1

FASHION B11

CIRCUITS G1-12

EDUCATION

Rethinking Drug Program
Leaders of DARE, which discourages drug use among schoolchildren, acknowledged that the strategy had not had sufficient effect and that a new approach was being developed. A1

Setback for Creationists
The Kansas Board of Education voted, 7 to 3, to reinstate evolution to the state's science curriculum. A18

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

Hidden Pitfalls to Phone Cards
No matter whose calling card they use, consumers run the risk of being charged far more than they expect, either because of details in the fine print, because they misdial or because of efforts by phone companies to find profits where they can. A1

Court Challenge to N.A.S.D.
A suit by a small New York brokerage firm, D. L. Cromwell Investments, contends that a criminal investigations unit of the N.A.S.D. is acting as government agent and obtaining testimony from executives that the government could not. C1

Preserving Treasury Market
The Bush administration is considering ways to keep the Treasury securities market alive in the face of rising government surpluses. C1

Promotion at Microsoft
Richard E. Belluzzo, who has overseen development of the .Net platform and the MSN network of Web sites, was named president and chief operating officer of Microsoft. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

HOUSE & HOME F1-22

EDITORIAL A30-31

Editorials: Paying the troops; bias charges at the Parks Department; Andres Martinez on the Bush-Fox meeting.
Columns: William Safire.

Bridge E8
TV Listings E11
Crossword E8
Weather C20
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MEDICARE (88%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); ARMED FORCES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); POLITICS (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); CORRUPTION (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); PARDONS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); LAWYERS (73%); LIBERALISM (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); ARRESTS (69%); POWER PLANTS (63%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (63%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (63%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (63%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (62%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BILL CLINTON (72%); EHUD BARAK (58%); CLARENCE THOMAS (56%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (56%); ELIZABETH II (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ARMENIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



393 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Secretary Promises to Listen to Unions but Expects Differences 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 14 

 BODY:
Elaine L. Chao, the new labor secretary, made her first appearance today before the nation's union leaders, promising to listen to their views while acknowledging that the Bush administration and labor would inevitably have differences. 
 Appearing at the winter meeting of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s executive council, Ms. Chao heard union leaders raise concerns about compulsory overtime, trade liberalization and fears that the administration would reverse new safety rules. She also met with several immigrant workers who talked about low pay, long hours and obstacles they face in unionizing. 
 Afterward, labor leaders praised Ms. Chao for her candor and her promise to maintain a dialogue. She gave them few substantial answers, saying she was still studying many issues because she had been in office for just eight days.
"I wanted to come to Los Angeles to meet with the executive council to listen and learn about the concerns of organized labor," she said, adding that she expected to have a "cordial, long and productive relationship" with the nation's unions.
Several labor leaders said Ms. Chao told them in a closed-door meeting that the administration would disagree with organized labor and adopt a policy, reversing President Bill Clinton, that would bar regulations giving unionized construction firms priority in obtaining work in federally funded projects.
"I found her very candid," said Gerald McEntee, president of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. "She said there would be times we will work together and others times we'll do battle."
The A.F.L.-C.I.O., a 13 million-member federation of 66 unions, made clear today that it would fight President Bush over his proposed $1.6 trillion tax cut. It said the plan favored the wealthy, would hardly spur the economy and would leave little money for other initiatives. 
The executive council adopted a resolution stating: "President Bush's plan is bad economic policy and morally wrong. The distribution of wealth and income in our country is more unequal than at any time since the Great Depression, and the Bush plan would widen the gap."
The union leaders voiced support for tax-cutting alternatives that they said would be fairer to working families and would help spur the economy faster. One alternative would give every person a $400 "prosperity dividend" this year.
In other initiatives announced today, labor leaders vowed to strengthen ties with immigrant communities and called for placing in every workplace a poster spelling out internationally guaranteed labor rights.
For many labor leaders, the jury was out on whether Ms. Chao would actually run the nation's labor policy. Before Ms. Chao settled in, the Bush administration took several actions unions disliked, among them suspending President Clinton's regulations that bar awarding federal contracts to companies that repeatedly violate labor or environmental laws.
Mr. McEntee said, "The question is whether labor policy is going to be made out of the Department of Labor or out of the White House?"
Andrew Stern, president of the Service Employees International Union, predicted that Ms. Chao's power would be limited, saying, "She is part of President Bush's administration and the president makes policy about labor-related issues like the minimum wage."
But Mr. Stern said he came away impressed, valuing her promise to listen to labor's views and convey them to the White House.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); OVERTIME (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (76%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); COUNTIES (72%); REFUGEES (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); TAX LAW (70%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (67%); FAMILY (66%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (65%); TAX RELIEF (63%); CONTRACT AWARDS (60%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (56%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (56%) LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR; OVERTIME; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; WAGES AND SALARIES; WORKING HOURS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (58%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (54%)

PERSON: ELAINE CHAO (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BILL CLINTON (73%) GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CHAO, ELAINE L (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2001 



394 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 4671 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The New York Times of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free. * denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

* "ABCD: A COLLECTION OF ART BRUT," Museum of American Folk Art, 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue at 66th Street, Manhattan, (212) 977-7170 (through mid-July). Memorably vivid and widely abused, the phrase Art Brut (meaning raw or rough art) was coined in the 1940's by the French artist Jean Dubuffet. This exhibition, drawn from the holdings of a Paris-based foundation, attempts to reinstate his original meaning, revisiting the amazing pantheon of artists who inspired it and proposing some additions. Its many highlights include works by acknowledged greats like Adolf Wolfli, Aloise Corbaz, Henry Darger and Augustin Lesage, but the show also introduces many equally riveting artists unfamiliar to American audiences. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. Free (Roberta Smith).

* "AFRICAN FORMS," Museum for African Art, 593 Broadway, near Houston Street, SoHo, (212) 966-1313 (through Aug. 8). This show forgoes the figurative sculptures and masks that made African art a foundation of Western modernism to concentrate on supposedly humbler stuff, objects of physical adornment and daily use. With some 400 objects created by 156 ethnic groups, it proceeds in clusters of related carved wood neck rests, stools and boxes; ivory hairpins and snuff bottles; all kinds of jewelry; baskets and ceramic vessels; as well as spoons, weapons and musical instruments. The show is pervaded with elegance, economy of form and a sensitivity to materials that is both intensely spiritual and protomodern. Figurative sculpture and masks may be the "high art" of Africa, but there is no low. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; $2.50, students and 65+ (Smith).

"CAN WE FEED OURSELVES? A FOCUS ON ASIA: PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROJI KUBOTA," Asia Society at Midtown, 502 Park Avenue, at 59th Street, (212) 288-6400 (through April 1). Concerned about problems in food production, population growth and environmental destruction, Mr. Kubota, a Japanese photojournalist, went to various Asian countries to bring their troubles to the eyes of the Western world. These 67 color photographs, many of them very beautiful, make up a rambling, informal survey that is part travelogue, part National Geographic pictorial essay, part observation of the land and the way it is worked and part picturesque chronicle of the poor and hungry. Mr. Kubota, a member of the distinguished Magnum photographers cooperative, was not out to shock; the photographs mainly concentrate on how people earn their bread (or rice) in the face of many obstacles. As one man's wide-angle view of a world most of us know dangerously little about, it's an eye-opener. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Admission: $4; $2, students and 65+ (Grace Glueck).

"CONTEXT: MEXICO'S TALLER DE GRAFICA POPULAR AND ITS LEGACY," Bronx Museum of the Arts, 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, (718) 681-6000 (through March 4). The Taller was established in Mexico City in 1937 to create a national art that would be accessible to the common man, and its utopian goals have inspired generations of Chicano and Puerto Rican artists. This small show, installed in the museum's permanent collection gallery, includes work by founding members of the Taller like Leopoldo Mendez and Pablo O'Higgins pluscontemporary successors like Luis Jimenez, Rafael Tufino and Ester Hernandez. Hours: Wednesdays, noon to 9 p.m; Thursdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $3; $2, students and 65+ (Holland Cotter).

* "CORREGGIO AND PARMIGIANINO: MASTER DRAFTSMEN OF THE RENAISSANCE," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 879-5500 (through May 6). This copious and beautiful exhibition has nearly 130 drawings by two artists who were aligned in time, geography and, briefly, style in the third decade of the 16th century. Correggio, who blew the roof off Renaissance illusionism with the ecstatic ceiling paintings that he made in Parma in the 1520's, is represented by a room of exquisite mostly red-chalk studies that reflect a penchant for brazen foreshortening, glowing light and atmospheric sfumato; they also attest to a sensuousness that can seem more proto-Rococo than proto-Baroque. The two galleries of Parmigianino's drawings seem true to his Mannerist sensibility. A searching restlessness is evident in the constant shifts in medium, style and subject, the considerations of other artists' work (including Correggio's), the pensive self-portraits and portraits and, most of all, in several drawings that layer together unrelated motifs. So is a relatively new notion for his time: drawing for the sake of drawing. Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:15 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 8:45 p.m. Admission: $10; $5, students and 65+ (Smith).

* "THE DRAFTSMAN'S ART: MASTER DRAWINGS FROM THE NATIONAL GALLERY OF SCOTLAND," Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700 (through Feb. 25). This beautiful exhibition of 70 master drawings from the 16th to 19th centuries, many of them recently acquired, has been organized with an eye to achieving a harmonic convergence of diversity, continuity, quality, fame and obscurity. Leonardo, Raphael, Boucher and Seurat are here in outstanding form, but so is an exquisitely detailed rendering of two Restoration gentlemen by David Paton, a Scottish miniaturist, and an almost cinematic genre scene that is considered the masterpiece of Etienne Jeaurat, a contemporary of Chardin. In between are works by Zuccaro, Pietro Testa, Pietro da Cortona, Hans Baldung Grien, Hendrick Goltzius and more. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 6 p.m. Admission: $7; $5, students and 62+ (Smith).

"THE GLOBAL GUGGENHEIM: SELECTIONS FROM THE EXTENDED COLLECTION," Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500 (through April 22). Of the big permanent collection shows that have been taking up so much space, the Guggenheim's is the last. It's also the coolest, the prettiest, the least programmatic and the most conservative. Despite the "global" spin of the title, this is strictly a Euro-American affair. And thanks to the eye of the curator, Carmen Gimenez, it is a very beautiful one. The great Wright spiral feels freshly swept out; the bays are sparingly hung; and dozens of top-notch works -- including a few from the Hermitage in St. Petersburg and Guggenheim branches abroad -- have been paired and grouped to ignite free-associational sparks. Hours: Sundays through Wednesdays, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 9 am. to 8 p.m. Admission: $12; $8, students and 65+ (Cotter).

* "SOL LeWITT: A RETROSPECTIVE," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676 (through Feb. 25). Unexpectedly, the most beautiful exhibition by a living artist in a New York museum in a long time and an antidote to the nonsense in several other museums around town. Just about every other wall is covered with wall drawings, alternately eye-popping and gossamer. Those out there (you know who you are) who flee any artist linked to Conceptualism may want to stop and re-evaluate your views after seeing what's here. The master of chaste white cubes has undergone a transformation since his last retrospective, in the late 70's. Now opulence emerges from the same seemingly prosaic instructions he came up with years ago. The appeal is still to patient observation, a lesson for everyone, delivered elegantly. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays and Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $10; $8, students and 62+ (Michael Kimmelman).

* "NINETEENTH- AND 20TH-CENTURY CHINESE PAINTINGS FROM THE ROBERT H. ELLSWORTH COLLECTION, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 879-5500 (through Aug. 19). The 19th and 20th centuries were shattering times for China, bringing wars, civil violence and the fall of an empire. In art old forms survived and flourished but also changed. This exhibition surveys how elite painting traditions developed for a new audience and under Western influences between 1850 to 1980. Among the highlights is a group of paintings by Qi Baishi (1864-1957), deservedly one of the most popular of all Chinese artists. The big news is that a major museum has quietly taken a firm stand on modern art in Asia, seeing it not as a postscript to a great tradition but as an integral, living part of the continuum. Hours and admission: See above (Cotter).

* CHARLOTTE SALOMON, Jewish Museum, 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200 (through March 25). Put aside as much as possible the grim death that has boxed Salomon, like Anne Frank, into the eye-glazing, inviolate category of Holocaust artist, a disservice to her. "Life? Or Theater?," her quasi-fictional diary of text and nearly 800 pictures cued to musical themes, will make you feel you are in good company while flattering your intelligence. The allusions are varied, the tone at times surprisingly light. Film was a big inspiration to Salomon. Images vary among close-ups, flashbacks, long shots and montage. She had an illustrator's gift for distillation and paraphrase. The result is a complex meditation on the connection between love and art. It is a coming-of-age story about a woman squeezing a whole life into one great gesture. Ultimately the energy counts most, a civilizing energy. "Take good care of it," Salomon told the man to whom she entrusted the work before she was shipped to Auschwitz. "It is my whole life." So it was. Hours: Sundays through Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Tuesdays to 8 p.m. Admission: $8; $5.50, students and 65+ (Kimmelman).

* "VAN GOGH'S POSTMAN: THE PORTRAITS OF JOSEPH ROULIN," Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400 (through May 15). This revelatory micro-exhibition reunites five portraits of the postal worker Joseph Roulin, whom van Gogh met while living in Arles in the south of France. The show affords an excellent opportunity to study the painter's craft as he processes a single motif through a series of approaches from painterly naturalism to richly patterned symbolism. It is fascinating as well to see the portraits in light of the biographical background. Roulin cared for van Gogh after the famous ear-cutting incident, and he grew in the artist's imagination from an amusing local character to a figure of Christ-like benevolence. Hours: Thursdays through Tuesdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; to 8:15 p.m. on Fridays. Admission: $10; $6.50, students and 65+ (Ken Johnson).

Galleries: Uptown

GENEVIEVE CADIEUX, Americas Society, 680 Park Avenue, at 68th Street, (212) 249-8950 (through Feb. 25). Each color photograph by this Montreal artist is like a moment from a slow, coolly romantic independent film. In two diptychs, beautiful, bigger-than-life lovers are separated by the gap between the panels. In one, he beseeches her, his hand extending into her space, but she looks away. Across the room is an eight-foot-square close-up of grass and purple clover. The mood is affecting, but oversize high-concept photography has become far too common (Johnson).

* NINO MIGLIORI, "Neo-Realismo: Scenes of Life in Postwar Italy," Keith de Lellis Gallery, 47 East 68th Street, (212) 327-1482 (through March 3). Making you feel the camera wasn't there was one of the great attributes of the postwar Italian neo-Realist films like "Shoeshine" and "The Bicycle Thief." You tend to dismiss the artful camera, too, in Mr. Migliori's black-and-white stills, taken in the north and south of Italy from 1952 to 1959. Inspired by the great neo-Realist film directors, Mr. Migliori captured what might be called Italian quintessences in images that range from three pairs of women's white shoes clicking smartly along a sidewalk to a couple of monks playing volleyball, their long robes billowing about them (Glueck).

CARLO MOLLINO AND FULVIO FERRARI, "Apotheosis," Roth Horowitz, 160a East 70th Street, (212) 717-9067 (through March 3). This curious show features two large, elaborate mixed-media limited edition art books by Fulvio Ferrari dedicated to the life and work of the Italian designer Carlo Mollino (1905-1973). It also presents a few items by Mollino himself, who was, it seems, quite the voluptuary. These include a beautifully framed specimen from his butterfly collection; an erotic, carved plaster capital; and a selection of the many Polaroid pictures of naked women that he made for his own private amusement in the 1960's (Johnson).

FRANK VON DER LANCKEN, "Artist and Educator," Hirschl & Adler, 21 East 70th Street, (212) 535-8810 (through Feb. 24). This well-produced exhibition brings to light a once well known but now largely forgotten American painter who trained in Paris, won medals in international exhibitions and from 1921 to 1936 directed the School of Arts and Crafts at the Chautauqua Institution. A skillful but less than adventurous painter, he made his best work -- modest, deftly painterly still lifes, portraits and light-dappled landscapes -- in the first two decades of the 20th century (Johnson).

* "WOMEN DESIGNERS IN THE U.S.A., 1900-2000: DIVERSITY AND DIFFERENCE," Bard Graduate Center for Studies in the Decorative Arts, 18 West 86th Street, (212) 501-3000 (through April 8). At the turn of the 20th century, female designers were mostly white, middle class and skilled in "female" pursuits; today their ethnicity is widely diversified, and they have made enormous progress in fields once open only to men. Architecture, landscaping, interiors, furniture, textiles, apparel, posters, tableware, wallpaper, ceramics, lighting, jewelry, floor coverings, silverware, doors for cars, costumes and industrial products are represented in this bountiful show, which shoehorns some 220 objects into three floors of tight gallery space. (Glueck).

Galleries: 57th Street

* "OUR BEAUTIFUL AND TORMENTED AUSTRIA: ART BRUT IN THE LAND OF FREUD," Galerie St. Etienne, 24 West 57th Street, (212) 245-6734 (through March 17). This extraordinary show introduces the recently discovered work of two self-taught Viennese artists: Emanuel Navratil (1875-1956), who made large color-pencil drawings that transform his native city into a magical kingdom of fantasy architecture, intricate pattern and bourgeois contentment; and Josef Karl Radler (1844-1917), a retired porcelain painter whose fusions of writing and painting infuse scenes of the hospital where he spent his final years with a power akin to illuminated manuscripts (Smith).

Galleries: SoHo

DAVE HEATH, Howard Greenberg, 120 Wooster Street, (212) 334-0010 (through March 3). A dark romanticism haunts these socially engaged photographs from the late 1950's and early 1960's, first published in Mr. Heath's 1965 book "A Dialogue With Solitude," which has just been reissued. A powerful portrait of Allen Ginsberg and a blurred image of a woman in a cafe reading "Howl" tell much about the photographer's affinities, but his most affecting works depict children, like the mythic image of a fallen, grimacing boy and a gleefully escaping girl, titled "Vengeful Sister" (Johnson).

GERALD MONROE, Donahue/Sosinski Art, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 226-1111 (through Feb. 24). A deft colorist, Mr. Monroe takes off in these abstract canvases from the shifts and interactions of forms in piles of dead leaves. His spirited arrangements involve subtle interplays of shape and hue. Although the works are abstract, they sometimes make references to nature, as in "Mecoxx," a bright blue ground that gleams with orange and aqua-green brushings that suggest the surface of water. What's particularly pleasing is the exuberance with which he brings off his intricate color play (Glueck).

ALAIN ARIAS-MISSON, "Little Shamanic Light Bulb Theater," Emily Harvey, 537 Broadway, at Spring Street, (212) 925-7651 (through Feb. 24). A poet, novelist and Fluxus fellow traveler since the 1960's, Mr. Arias-Misson presents a series of amusing miniature theater boxes. In them, small, glowing plastic characters derived from ancient shamanic figures act out mythic, domestic and absurdist dramas involving found objects like an antique iron, a violin or a box of eggs. Curiously, the primitive actors are usually contained in clear light bulbs (Johnson).

FRANK STOUT, The Painting Center, 52 Greene Street, (212) 343-1060 (through Feb. 24). A painter with a deft touch and a gently comical worldview, Mr. Stout had his first New York solo show in 1960. This small retrospective features medium-large paintings based on found photographs of subjects like a Shriners' convention or a group portrait of nursing school graduates. The painting calls to mind Jack Levine's but without the biting social critique. Don't miss the delightful portrait of Philip Pearlstein (Johnson).

"VOX 2001," Kent, 67 Prince Street, (212) 966-4500 (through March 3). Highlights of this absorbing selection of works in a wide variety of media include a beautiful black hairball by Kazumi Tanaka; a miniature video homage to Hitchcock's "Rear Window" by Leandro Erlich; an uncannily vivid sculptural self-portrait by Elizabeth King; an esoteric painted diagram explaining "Mind Physics" by Paul Laffoley; and a small, bizarrely mutated photographic self-portrait by John Brill (Johnson).

MARTIN WONG, "Storefronts, 1984-86," P.P.O.W., 476 Broome Street, (212) 941-8642 (through Feb. 24). The large canvases depicting Lower East Side storefronts with padlocked gates and dark windows by a Chinese-American painter who died in 1999 have an impressive formal presence and a touching, Hopperesque melancholy. In each, a near life-size facade fills the canvas edge to edge like a Jasper Johns flag. Brusquely painted, palpably realistic, the paintings balance the material and the illusory, the social and the poetic (Johnson).

Galleries: Chelsea

RICCI ALBENDA, "Tesseract," Andrew Kreps Gallery, 516A West 20th Street, (212) 741-8849 (through March 3). Mr. Albenda's installation consists of a white, space-filling geometric form floating in the center of the gallery. Sleek curved reliefs, looking both anatomical and mechanical, bulge from the walls; one entire wall is a negative relief in the shape of a receding box, suggesting perspectival movement toward a vanishing point. Technically, the work is a little awkward, but it's packed with ideas about sculpture as architecture, about the chaste but uninnocent "white cube" exhibition space, about Modernism's mystical, utopian fourth dimension. Mr. Albenda neatly distances himself from specific utopian ideas. But he also hints that he takes the existence of such ideas seriously (Cotter).

AZIZ + CUCHER, "Chimeras, Interiors, Naturalia," Henry Urbach, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 627-0974 (through Feb. 24). Known for their digitally mutated human images, Aziz + Cucher here present slick photographic images of vacant architectural spaces and mysterious mechanical objects, both of which have surfaces of human skin: moles, pores, follicles and all. The collapse of boundaries between the human and the inanimate is funny and, one fears, chillingly prophetic (Johnson).

ANDREW BICK, LiebmanMagnan, 552 West 24th Street, (212) 255-3225 (through Feb. 24). The way this English painter toys with form calls to mind Jonathan Lasker, Bryce Marden and Terry Winters. Nevertheless, his layering of wax, paint, hard-edged rectangles and scrawled grids has its own playful intelligence and sensuous physicality (Johnson).

GERNOT LINDNER, Annina Nosei, 530 West 22nd Street, (212) 741-8695 (through March 3). Mr. Lindner's large color photographs appear at first to be big-sky wilderness landscapes perfectly mirrored by glassy lake surfaces. Then you notice discrepancies between the upper half and the lower and realize that the lower half is actually an inverted copy -- or near copy -- of the upper. The pictures thus hover between soulful tranquillity and vacuous gimmickry (Johnson).

ROBERT LONGO, "The Freud Drawings," Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street, (212) 206-7100 (through March 3). Mr. Longo's new monumental charcoal drawings are based on photographs of Sigmund Freud's home in 1938, before he fled to London. The drawings are competently made with strong contrasts between velvety blacks and glaring whites; if they are compelling, though, it is because they trigger highly charged associations. Through the spiritually cheap act of appropriation, the artist lays claim to an unearned moral profundity (Johnson).

Other Galleries

DENNIS OPPENHEIM, Ace Gallery, 275 Hudson Street, South Village, (212) 255-5599 (through March 24). This medium-size, occasionally amusing survey is what you would expect: a fun-house mixture of documentary photographs, booming electronics, videos, cockamamie sculpture and installations. The art is, at heart, about how hard it is to make art. Among the early works is a mechanized marionette, "Attempt to Raise Hell" (1974), a self-portrait that smashes its head into a big cast-iron bell. Frustration, anger and violence have been his creative touchstones, along with a sense of humor. His legacy is to have turned futility into a medium, a singular plan, sometimes effective but often not memorable enough visually (Kimmelman).

HARRIET SHORR, Cheryl Pelavin, 13 Jay Street, TriBeCa, (212) 925-9424 (through March 3). With an appealing dry yet sensuous touch, Ms. Shorr paints studio setups that look like brightly daylit outdoor situations. Flowers, leaves, branches and blue sky are mirrored in reflective pools, confounding the relationship between the real and the virtual (Johnson).

FRANK WEBSTER AND TAMARA ZAHAYKEVICH, Arena@Feed, 173A North Third Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 486-8992 (through March 4). Mr. Webster paints images of architectural Americana -- a gas station, a convenience store, an air traffic control tower at LaGuardia Airport -- in the stripped-down manner of geometric abstraction, with colors as faded as if seen in old photographs. Ms. Zahaykevich goes straight for abstraction in small faceted constructions that are made from Styrofoam packaging and suggest futuristic buildings and furniture (Cotter).

Last Chance

* JAN DIBBETS, "Early Work," Barbara Gladstone Gallery, 515 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-9300 (through today). A welcome review of this Dutch Conceptualist's innovative work from the early 1970's includes puzzled-together images of Dutch horizons, and seascapes that push natural flatness toward geometric abstraction. Especially beautiful is a large grid of images that amounts to an ode to light, made on the shortest day of the year in 1970. The work's awareness of the camera and the photograph as objects, new at the time, sharpens one's awe for their ability to mirror the world -- and for the world itself (Smith).

NAN GOLDIN, "Memory Lost!!," Matthew Marks, 522 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 243-0200 (through tomorrow). There is something monotonously opaque about Ms. Goldin's big, colorful, diaristic photographs of her bohemian friends. Her subjects are often naked or having sex, but this only emphasizes anonymous bodies at the expense of personality or narrative substance. One finds more poetry in her images of a fire in an antique fireplace or the nighttime view of a white house in a snow storm (Johnson).

EMMET GOWIN, "Close to Life: Photographs of Edith," Pace/McGill Gallery, 32 East 57th Street (212) 759-7999 (through tomorrow). For nearly 40 years Mr. Gowin has been shooting his wife, Edith, at stages of the journey from youth to age. Guileless, mostly unsmiling and often nude, she is caught in a variety of domestic roles and situations. What's moving in these superbly printed photographs is the recording of life's changes in the face, from the fresh anticipatory look of early youth to the weary, no-surprises expression with which age stamps it (Glueck).

* JONATHAN PYLYPCHUK, Friedrich Petzel Gallery, 535 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 680-9467 (through tomorrow). Combining the scale and heft of 1980's painting with the pathos of 90's abject art -- and plywood scrap with old wallpaper, fabric, sand, glitter and much else -- this Los Angeles artist makes enormous collagelike paintings that suggest a Hallmark cards/outsider art reprise of Synthetic Cubism. They are inhabited by tiny puppetlike figures whose disjointed exchanges communicate a dislocation in tune with the physical hodgepodge, and an air of inconsolability as big as the vast landscape the hodgepodge so deftly depicts (Smith).

"SERIAL NUMBER," GAle GAtes et al, 37 Main Street, Brooklyn, (718) 522-4596 (through tomorrow). This "Emerging Curators" show has been organized by Lauren Ross of White Columns. All the work refers in some way to serial formats found in popular media. Highlights include Frank Magnotta's drawings of homes imagined from television shows; Melissa Marks's narrative of a comic book heroine; Max Goldfarb's video of himself dressed as a city worker painting unorthodox traffic lines on streets; Joan Reidy's spooky pencil drawings based on her high school yearbook; photos of Ellen Harvey's public graffiti in the form of tiny romantic landscapes; Laura Carton's outtakes from Internet pornography, minus the people; and Russell Nachman's vivid paintings of science fiction bookcovers (Cotter).

CRISTIAN SILVA AND GRAZIA TODERI, The Project, 427 West 126th Street, Harlem, (212) 662-8610 (through Sunday). Much of Mr. Silva's first solo show in the United States is a surreal portrait of his homeland, Chile, made up of political "in" jokes about class and politics. Two pieces with a broader global reach stand out: a multilingual collage of "Incredible Hulk" comic book clippings and a wall piece, made of nails, string and cast shadow, in which the words "indestructible" and "vulnerable" merge. Upstairs is a DVD projection titled "Olympia" by Ms. Toderi, an Italian artist, offering just a taste of an intriguing body of her video work. The single, slowly rotating image of the Olympic stadium in Sydney during a nighttime rock concert looks like a great moist flower, a nebula and a mother ship about to lift off or descend (Cotter).

"SPECIFICALLY PAINTING," Edward Thorp, 210 11th Avenue, at 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 691-6565 (through tomorrow). This pluralistic show gives a good answer to why we still need painting: unlike machine-made art, it registers individual sensibility with infinite sensitivity. It includes Shawn Spencer's brushy and bizarre paintings of foxes; wide, blue, airy abstractions by Dorota Kolodziejczyk; materially sensuous, hard-edged geometry by Andrew Spence; Julia Wachtel's fusion of feminism, Pop and action painting; spiral doodling expanded into cosmic vision by Dave Perry; richly colored biomorphism by Jenifer Kobylarz; and elegant, whiplash calligraphy frozen in space by Lisa Stefanelli (Johnson).

"SPLENDOR OF ALCORA: SPANISH CERAMICS OF THE 18th CENTURY, PART 1, 1727-1749, Hispanic Society of America, 613 West 155th Street, Washington Heights, (212) 926-2234 (through Sunday). The ceramics of Alcora, a town north of Valencia, were intended to compete with the best in Europe by combining top-notch workmanship with a French taste for classical themes and chinoiserie. Judging by primo samples on view here, which are part of a major cache recently acquired by the museum, they succeeded. The pieces range from a polychrome platter painted with a battle scene to a shell-shaped stand for holding a hot-chocolate cup. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Free (Cotter).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Detail of a Navratil work at Galerie St. Etienne on 57th Street. (Galerie St. Etienne); A large detail from James Rosenquist's "Swimmer in the Econo-Mist," in "The Global Guggenheim: Selections From the Extended Collection." (Deutsche Guggenheim Berlin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (73%); ETHNIC GROUPS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (60%); POPULATION GROWTH (60%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (50%); MUSIC (50%); ETHNICITY (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (85%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2001 



395 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: New Video Releases 

 BODY:
Beautiful
 As a child Mona Hibbard dreams of victory in beauty pageants. As a grown-up contestant Mona (Minnie Driver, left) is crowned Miss Illinois and aims for the Miss American Miss contest. Mona plays rough, sabotaging other contestants, but her potential undoing is that she has a young daughter (Hallie Kate Eisenberg), which would disqualify her. Sally Field's first feature film, Stephen Holden wrote in The New York Times, "teeters from a noisy sitcom (only one step removed from the 'Beverly Hillbillies') to brickbat satire until it collapses in a pool of redemptive mush." 

2000. Columbia TriStar. $105.77; DVD, $24.95. 112 minutes. Closed captioned. PG-13. Release date: Feb. 20.

The City (La Ciudad)
Made up of four vignettes featuring nonprofessional Latin American actors, David Riker's deeply disquieting film plunges onto the streets of some of New York's poorer neighborhoods, where immigrants live at the mercy of exploitative employers and inflexible institutions. Workers are promised one wage and given one-third of that, if they get anything at all. Their children are denied education. " 'The City' doesn't go out of its way to pull your heartstrings, but its understatement makes it all the more devastating" (Holden).

1999. New Yorker. $94.98. 88 minutes. English and Spanish with English subtitles. No rating.

Bring It On
"That's all right, that's O.K./You're going to pump our gas someday," the suburban Rancho Grande high school cheerleading squad yells at a rival group from a less affluent school district. Snappy routines and skimpy outfits have led the Toros, as they're called, to five national cheerleading championships. But then their captain (Kirsten Dunst) discovers that the team's previous leaders have been stealing their moves from an inner-city school. That might have made a whole movie instead of a subplot, but "the fact that a bouncy teenage sports comedy can even gesture toward serious matters of race and economic equality is pretty impressive" (A. O. Scott).

2000. Universal. $108.97; DVD, $26.98. 110 minutes. Closed captioned. PG-13. Release date: Jan. 23.

Bless the Child
Maggie (Kim Basinger) is a psychiatric nurse with a warmth about her, but when her younger sister, Jenna (Angela Bettis), shows up with a newborn daughter, old family tensions flare. After a row, Jenna departs, leaving Maggie to raise the child, whose autism is diagnosed when she is 6. Maggie, however, suspects Satanic influences at work, especially when a creepy cult leader (Rufus Sewell) seeks custody. An F.B.I. agent (Jimmy Smits) attempts to help, but Maggie must cope by herself in a film that tries for the hushed elegance of "The Sixth Sense" but amounts to a "supernatural soap opera" (Elvis Mitchell).

2000. Paramount. $107.37; DVD, $29.99. 107 minutes. Closed captioned. R.

Straight to Video

Other new titles of interest, some of which may have had a theater release, appeared on television or been on videocassette in earlier editions.

MICHAEL JORDAN TO THE MAX. As if we needed further convincing, a big, loud expensive film originally shown in the Imax format is dedicated to the proposition that the former Chicago Bulls guard was the greatest basketball player of all time. A sports documentary ordinarily trades in nostalgia or revelation, but the Jordan public image, obviously crucial to his role as spokesman for many products, discourages much digging or revelation. Instead, his career is telescoped into his last season in a film that, A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times, "is more like an infomercial in which the pitchman is also the product." 2000. Fox. $14.98; DVD, $19.98. 45 minutes. No rating.

STOMP OUT LOUD. The percussion team from the New York stage show "Stomp" takes to the streets to bang its mop handles, trash-can lids and any other object that makes a rhythmical racket. 2001. HBO. DVD, $19.98. 50 minutes.

THE MIRACLE WORKER. Best known for her Pepsi commercials, the 8-year-old actress Hallie Kate Eisenberg has that image to overcome in her portrayal of a young Helen Keller in an often stormy relationship with her teacher, Annie Sullivan (Alison Elliott). But like many productions for ABC's "Wonderful World of Disney," this one does its best not to dumb down a classic story. "If anything," Julie Salamon wrote in The New York Times, "the problem with Nadia Tass's direction may be that it's too respectful toward the film's subject and slightly fearful of it." 2000. Disney. $104.16. 96 minutes. Closed captioned.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (88%); CHILDREN (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (70%); CITY LIFE (69%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); AUTISM (60%); CULTS & SECTS (60%); NURSES & NURSING (50%) MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS; RECORDINGS (VIDEO) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

TITLE: BEAUTIFUL (MOVIE); CITY, THE (MOVIE); BRING IT ON (MOVIE); BLESS THE CHILD (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2001 



396 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 4; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 3141 words

HEADLINE: SPARE TIMES 

 BODY:
 ATTRACTIONS

Museums And Sites

AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY, Central Park West and 79th Street. The Arthur Ross Terrace, a new one-acre public space with ginkgo and pagoda trees, has opened, with the same hours as the museum. "Fusions, Faces and Footprints," a cross-cultural examination of the African diaspora, runs weekends through February, featuring performances, movies and lectures. This weekend, "A Celebration of Black Dance." Tomorrow at 1 p.m., movement workshop with Creative Outlet Dance Theater of Brooklyn, featuring Jamel Gaines, founder and artistic director; at 2:30 p.m., a screening of "Stormy Weather," starring Lena Horne, Cab Calloway and Bill (Bojangles) Robinson; at 4 p.m., panel discussion on black dance forms highlighted in the movie musical "Stormy Weather," featuring dancers and educators, including the dancer Walter Nix and the dance historian Joe Nash; moderated by Rashidah Ismali Abubakr, a poet, playwright and historian. Sunday at 1 p.m., a performance by the West African Dance Company, featuring performers from the National Ballet of the Ivory Coast, with a question and answer period after the performance; at 2:30 p.m., "Black Dance: Past, Present and Future," a panel discussion; at 3:30 p.m., the conclusion of the program honors the achievements of dance luminaries, including Carmencita Romero and Mr. Nix of the Katherine Dunham troupe, Marie Brooks of the Pan-Caribbean Dance Theater, Carmen de Lavallade and Eleo Pomare, dancers and choreographers. Tomorrow and Sunday, "African-Native Americans," a photography display of works by Louis Myers. "The Butterfly Conservatory: Tropical Butterflies Alive in Winter," live multicolored butterflies from Africa, Asia and the Americas on view in the rain forest of the Butterfly Conservatory; through May 28. Imax films are "Ocean Oasis" and "Shackleton's Antarctic Adventure." Separate admission for the Imax films and the Butterfly Conservatory: $15; $11 for students and 62+; $9 for children under 12. In the Imax Theater tonight and tomorrow night at 9, "Laser Aerosmith in 3-D"; at 10, "Laser Led Zeppelin." Laser show tickets: $12. Museum hours: Sundays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 8:45 p.m. Admission (suggested donation): $10 for adults; $7.50 for students and 65+; $6 for children. Combination tickets are available: for example, a ticket that includes museum admission and one Imax film or any special exhibition: $15; students and 65+, $11; children 12 and under, $9; under 2, free. Information: (212) 769-5100; advance tickets: (212) 769-5200.

HISTORIC RICHMONDTOWN, Staten Island Historical Society, 441 Clarke Avenue, Richmondtown. More than 25 buildings from the late 17th to the 19th century, restored and furnished. Tavern concert series, Friday nights at 7:30 and 9, Linda Russell and Companie, a trio who sing songs accompanied on dulcimers, guitar and flute. Tickets: $10, includes a drink; prepaid reservations required. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Admission: $4; 62+, children 6 to 18 and students, $2.50; 5 and under, free. Information: (718) 351-1611.

MUSEUM OF CHINESE IN THE AMERICAS, 70 Mulberry Street, Chinatown. On permanent display is "Where Is Home? Chinese in the Americas," a collection of photographs and other artifacts, and "Family Portraits," photographs of Chinatown residents. "Tong Zhi/Comrade: Out in Asia America," an exhibition of works by Ken Chu addressing sexual orientation among the Chinese; through April 14. "Chinatowns in North America," a CD-ROM installation featuring photographs by William Chu; on permanent display. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, noon to 5 p.m.; closed on holidays. Admission: $3; 62+ and students, $1; 12 and under and museum members, free. Information: (212) 619-4785.

MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street. The museum collects, preserves and presents material related to the city's history. "Working Women: A Century of New York Junior League Volunteerism," through Aug. 12. "A Portfolio of New York, 1894-97: 12 Views by Edwin Davis French," through March 18. "The City Shops: Photographs by Martha Cooper and Fred W. McDarrah," through April 15. "Guys and Dolls," an exhibition celebrating the 50th anniversary of the original Broadway production, including photographs, drawings, prints and memorabilia, through June 10. "Painting the Town: Cityscapes of New York," through Dec. 31, 2002. Hours: Tuesdays, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. for registered groups only; Wednesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m.; closed Mondays. Suggested admission: $7; 62+, students and children, $4; families, $12. Information: (212) 534-1672.

MUSEUM OF JEWISH HERITAGE: A LIVING MEMORIAL TO THE HOLOCAUST, 18 First Place, at West Street and Battery Place, Battery Park City, Lower Manhattan. Artifacts, documents, photographs, videos and film clips on the Holocaust and on Jewish life before and after World War II. "Heritage Week," featuring family tours for ages 4 to 8 or self-guided tours through the museum for ages 9 and older; Sunday through Feb. 25. Sunday from 1 to 2:30 p.m., Heritage Storytelling Festival; for ages 4 and older. "Cyprus to Haifa, 1949: Photographs by Paula Horn Kotis," through Feb. 25. Hours: Sundays through Wednesdays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays until 8 p.m.; Fridays and the eves of Jewish holidays, 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.; closed Saturdays. Admission: $7; students and 55+, $5; children 5 and under, free. Tickets can be purchased by calling the museum, (212) 945-0039. Information: (212) 509-6130.

MUSEUM OF TELEVISION AND RADIO, 25 West 52nd Street, Manhattan. A collection of taped radio and television broadcasts and exhibitions in other mediums, including drawings, posters and photographs. The museum is celebrating Black History Month with programs from the 1960's to the 90's; Tuesdays through Sundays at 12:15 p.m.; today: "Ailey Dances" (1983); tomorrow: "American Playhouse: The Meeting" (1989), fictional account of a meeting between the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcolm X; Sunday, "We All Have Tales: Koi and the Kola Nuts" (1991), for younger viewers. Also through Sunday, "Of Black America: In Search of a Past" (1968). "From Class Clown to Social Critic: The Television Comedy of George Carlin," featuring 30 years of his work; Tuesdays through Sundays at 3 p.m., with additional screenings on Thursday nights at 6 and Friday nights at 7; through March 4. "Traffik," the five-part British television series, which aired on PBS's Masterpiece Theater in 1990, will be screened in two parts. Part I, which includes Episodes 1 and 2; Thursdays at 6 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 p.m. Part II, which includes Episodes 3 through 5, Fridays at 6 p.m.; Sundays at 2 p.m., through April 29. Museum hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays until 8 p.m. On Fridays the theater is open until 9 p.m. Admission: $6; students and 62+, $4; ages 12 and under, $3. Information: (212) 621-6800.

NEW YORK CITY FIRE MUSEUM, 278 Spring Street, SoHo. In a renovated 1904 firehouse, a collection of fire-related art and artifacts from the 18th century to the present, including a fire engine, hose wagons, hats and toys. Opening tomorrow, "Firefighter Portraits by Joseph Powers"; through March 15. Sunday from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m., a family scavenger hunt. The exhibition "Fire Marks: Emblems of Insurance" features 18th- and 19th-century British and American emblems used by firefighters to distinguish policyholders from the uninsured; long-running. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Suggested admission: $4; $2, students and 62+; $1, children under 12. Information: (212) 691-1303.

NEW YORK TRANSIT MUSEUM, Boerum Place and Schermerhorn Street, downtown Brooklyn. "History in Motion: 25 Years of Collecting at the New York Transit Museum," through April 29. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Admission: $3; 62+ and ages 6 to 17, $1.50; 5 and under, free. Free for the 62+ on Wednesdays from noon to 4 p.m. Information: (718) 243-8601. At the New York Transit Museum Gallery at Grand Central Terminal, "All Aboard!," an exhibition of vintage scale models of classic American and European trains; through March 31. Free. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; closed Sundays. Information: (212) 878-0106.

WORLD FINANCIAL CENTER, North Bridge, 200 Liberty Street, between West and Vesey Streets, Lower Manhattan. "The Best of Slovak and Czech Art," featuring works by young artists in the Slovak and Czech Republics; through March 3. Free. Information: (212) 945-0505.

Gardens

BROOKLYN BOTANIC GARDEN, 1000 Washington Avenue, Crown Heights. More than 12,000 kinds of plants from around the world are displayed on 52 acres. In February South African bulbs are in bloom in the Steinhardt Conservatory. The Japanese Hill and Pond Garden is open, and guided tours are available. Other events: free garden tours Saturdays and Sundays at 1 p.m.; meet at the Visitors Center. Admission: $3; $1.50 for students and 62+; free for children 15 and under; free for all on Tuesdays, except holidays; free from 10 a.m. to noon on Saturdays. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. The conservatory closes 30 minutes before the grounds. Information: (718) 623-7200.

NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN, Southern Boulevard and 200th Street, Bedford Park, the Bronx. Includes 48 specialty gardens and plant collections. Beginning tomorrow, "Chocolate Month," featuring crafts, activities and tastings, with special events planned for winter school break; through March 11. Tomorrow at 1 p.m., "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory," storytelling by David Elyha; Sunday at 1 p.m., "The I Like Chocolate Show," presented by the Brothers Grinn. "Nature's Pharmacy: Plants That Heal," a botanical exhibition featuring medicinal and economically important plants in the Haupt Conservatory, including an audio tour narrated by garden scientists; through March 11. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 1 to 4 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays and holidays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Bird walks Saturdays and Sundays at 12:30 p.m. Forest tours, Thursdays at 1 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays at noon. Tram tours, daily, every 30 minutes. Garden highlights tours, Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays at 1 p.m. Grounds hours: Tuesdays through Sundays and Monday holidays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Botanical Garden admission: $3; students and 62+, $2; children 2 to 12, $1; under 2, free. Conservatory admission: $5; students and 62+, $4; children 2 to 12, $3; under 2, free. Adventure Garden admission: $3; students and 62+, $2; children 2 to 12, $1; under 2, free. Grounds admission free for all on Wednesdays and from 10 a.m. to noon on Saturdays. Parking: $5. The best way to see the garden is with a garden passport combination ticket, which grants admission to the entire grounds and includes a tram tour: adults, $10; students and 62+, $7.50; children 2 to 12, $4; under 2, free. Information: (718) 817-8700.

RECREATION

NEW YORK ROAD RUNNERS CLUB, Central Park. Tomorrow at 9:30 a.m., the "Al Gordon 15K," a 15-kilometer race, leaves from the East Drive and 97th Street. On Sunday, the "Metropolitan 50-Miler," which leaves at 8 a.m. from the Engineer's Gate, East Drive and 90th Street; the "Kurt Steiner 50-K," a 50-kilometer run that leaves at 9 a.m. from the East Drive and 102nd Street. Advance fees: $18, $13 for club members, $11 for junior and senior club members ("Al Gordon 15K"); $20, $15 for members ("Metropolitan 50-Miler"); and $15, $12 for members ("Kurt Steiner 50K"); race-day registration: $23, $16 for members, $13 for junior and senior club members ("Al Gordon 15K"); $25, $20 for members (50-miler); $20, $15 for members (50-kilometer). Information: (212) 860-4455.

EVENTS

GRAMERCY PARK ANTIQUES AND FINE ART SHOW, 69th Regiment Armory, Lexington Avenue at 26th Street. Today, 11 a.m to 8 p.m.; tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Sunday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Daily admission, $10. Information: (212) 255-0020.

BLACK HISTORY MONTH SHOW AND SALE, Cathedral of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street, Morningside Heights. An annual display of books, photographs, art, magazines and other items relating to black history. Tomorrow and Sunday, noon to 8 p.m. Lectures on collecting black history items and interpreting the social history of old photographs on both days at 5 P.M. Admission: $6, includes both days; lectures, an additional $4. Information: (212) 316-7486.

MUSIC BY BLACK COMPOSERS, Flatbush-Tompkins Congregational Church, 424 East 19th Street, Flatbush, Brooklyn. Featuring the church choir and soloists. Tomorrow at 7 p.m. Tickets, $15; $10 for children under 12 and 65+. Information: (718) 282-5353.

PATHMARK GOSPEL CHOIR COMPETITION, Grand Central Terminal and the Apollo Theater. Gospel groups from the New York area as well as Pennsylvania and Kentucky will compete for cash prizes at both locations tomorrow. From noon to 4 p.m., the groups will appear in Vanderbilt Hall at Grand Central Terminal; admission is free. At 8 p.m., the top three groups will perform at the Apollo Theater, 253 West 125th Street, Harlem. Tickets, $20; proceeds benefit the Apollo Theater Foundation. Tickets: (212) 531-5305.

WALKING TOURS

"JAZZ NIGHTS IN HARLEM." A tour of the area followed by dinner at Sylvia's restaurant and a stop at a jazz club. Meets tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30 inside the front of Starbucks, northeast corner of Lenox Avenue and 125th Street. Fee: $65. Sponsored by Harlem Heritage Tours. Reservations: (212) 280-7888.

"HIGHLIGHTS OF HEROES OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION," Lower Manhattan. A walking tour that covers the history of the city as an English colony and during the Revolutionary War, with visits to sites of importance in the lives of Washington, Jefferson, Alexander Hamilton and others. Tomorrow and Monday at 1 p.m. Fee: $11. Sponsored by Gotham Walk. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 629-1886.

PRESIDENTIAL GRAMERCY PARK AND GREENWICH VILLAGE. Two tours of places made famous by first ladies as well as chief executives. The Greenwich Village tour is tomorrow and Sunday at 12:15 p.m., followed by the Gramercy Park tour on both days at 2:30 p.m. Fee for each tour, $12. Sponsored by NYC Discovery Tours. Information: (212) 465-3331.

"IN THE FOOTSTEPS OF LE CORBUSIER: TURTLE BAY." Traces the development of the area through the influence of the noted architect, with stops at the Rockefeller Guest House, the Summit Hotel, the Japan Society and the Ford Foundation. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. on the northwest corner of Second Avenue and 42nd Street. Sponsored by the Municipal Art Society. Fee, $15; $12 for Society members. Information: (914) 935-3960.

HARLEM RENAISSANCE WALKING TOUR. A look at Harlem in the 1920's, with stops at Strivers Row, the Langston Hughes House and the Abyssinian Baptist Church. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. on the northeast corner of Lenox Avenue and 135th Street. Fee, $15. Sponsored by Harlem Heritage Tours. Information: (212) 280-7888.

"HISTORIC HARLEM." With stops at the Abyssinian Baptist Church, Strivers Row and sites associated with Zora Neale Hurston and Langston Hughes. Meets Sunday at 1 p.m. in front of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, 515 Lenox Avenue, at 135th Street, at the northwest corner, Harlem. Fee: $12; $10 for students and 63+. Sponsored by Big Onion Walking Tours. Information: (212) 439-1090.

SHEEPSHEAD BAY TO KINGS PLAZA, Brooklyn. A walk along the bay and the Plum Beach Bicycle Trail to Flatbush Avenue and the Kings Plaza mall, with an optional trip to the Marine Part Nature Center. Meets Sunday at 11 a.m. at the token booth of the Sheepshead Bay subway stop on the D train. Fee, $3. Sponsored by the Outdoors Club. Information: (718) 998-3793.

"ABRAHAM LINCOLN'S NEW YORK," Lower Manhattan, stops at sites visited by Lincoln in the mid-1800's. Meets Sunday at 10:30 a.m. inside Blimpie's Restaurant, 38 Park Row, across from City Hall Park. Fee, $12. Sponsored by Dr. Phil: New York Talks and Walks. Information: (888) 377-4455.

"GEORGE WASHINGTON'S NEW YORK," Lower Manhattan, covers sites known to the first president. Meets Sunday at 1 p.m. inside Blimpie's Restaurant, 38 Park Row, across from City Hall Park. Fee, $12. Sponsored by Dr. Phil: New York Talks and Walks. Information: (888) 377-4455.

PRESIDENTIAL GREENWICH VILLAGE. Stops at places associated with presidents from the distant past (Harrison, Wilson and Jefferson) as well as those of more recent times (Kennedy, Reagan and George Bush the elder). Meets Sunday and Monday at 1 p.m. on the southeast corner of Fifth Avenue and 12th Street. Fee, $10. Sponsored by I'll Take Manhattan Tours. Information: (732) 270-5277.

"LOVERS AND LOSERS" visits sites in the Beekman and Sutton Place areas associated with the love lives of Greta Garbo, Katharine Hepburn, Irving Berlin, Clare Boothe Luce and others. Meets Sunday at 4 p.m. on the northwest corner of First Avenue and 52nd Street. Fee, $5. Sponsored by Adventure on a Shoestring. Information: (212) 265-2663.

"NEW YORK IN THE TIME OF GEORGE WASHINGTON," Lower Manhattan, covers sites associated with Washington, Franklin, Hamilton and others. Meets Sunday at 11 a.m. on the southeast corner of Broadway and Chambers Street. Sponsored by the Municipal Art Society. Fee, $15; $12 for Society members. Information: (212) 935-3960.

ABRAHAM LINCOLN WALK, Lower Manhattan. A walk through streets traveled by Lincoln on visits in the mid-1800's, led by a tour guide in Lincoln regalia. Meets Monday at 1 p.m. at the south entrance to City Hall Park. Led by Stan O'Connor. Fee, $10. Information: (718) 469-0358.

"PRESIDENTIAL PROMENADE," Lower Manhattan. Visits sites associated with Lincoln, Washington and Richard Nixon. Meets Monday at 1 p.m. inside Blimpie's Restaurant, 38 Park Row. Fee, $12. Sponsored by Dr. Phil: New York Talks and Walks. Information: (888) 377-4455.

"HAIL TO THE CHIEF: A PRESIDENTIAL WALKING TOUR," Lower Manhattan. A tour past locations associated with George Washington and Abraham Lincoln, with stops at Fraunces Tavern, St. Paul's Chapel and the Alexander Hamilton United States Customs House. Meets Monday at 1 p.m. at the intersection of Broadway and Murray Street. Fee, $12, $10 for students and those 63+. Sponsored by Big Onion Walking Tours. Information: (212) 439-1090.

"PAST PRESIDENTS' PEREGRINATION," Greenwich Village. Offers a salute to Abraham Lincoln and George Washington, with stops at places they visited, including Cooper Union, McSorley's Old Ale House and Washington Mews. Meets Monday at 3 p.m. on the northwest corner of Second Avenue and 10th Street. Fee, $5. Sponsored by Adventure on a Shoestring. Information: (212) 265-2663.

GRAPHIC: Photo: EVENTS -- A Henry Schoenbauern sculpture can be found at the Gramercy Park Antiques and Fine Art Show this weekend at the 69th Regiment Armory. (Mantiques) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (92%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); DANCE COMPANIES (91%); HISTORY (90%); DANCERS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); FILM (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (76%); BALLET (76%); FILM GENRES (76%); THEATER & DRAMA (75%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (71%); THEATER (56%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: IMAX CORP (84%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%)

TICKER: IMX (TSX) (84%); IMAX (NYSE) (84%); PANASONIC (NSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (84%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); AFRICA (79%); ANTARCTICA (70%); ASIA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2001 



397 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO DROPS. The dollar rose on expectations the economy will avoid a recession and investors will continue to favor the United States. In New York, the euro settled at 90.42 cents, down from 91.76 cents on Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since August 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%) CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2001 



398 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BRIEFING 

BYLINE:  Compiled by Terence Neilan

 BODY:
 EUROPE

SERBIA: BUFFER WITH KOSOVO
NATO told Serbian officials that it was prepared as part of an overall peace plan to consider changes to the buffer zone on Kosovo's eastern boundary, which ethnic Albanian separatists are using as a safe haven. But while welcoming a plan by Belgrade to stabilize the region, NATO's secretary general, Lord Robertson, above, said any ultimatum or use of force by Serbian forces to regain control of the zone would be unacceptable. Carlotta Gall (NYT)

CROATIA: PROTEST FIZZLES
In a lift for the reformist government, a right-wing anti-government protest in support of a general wanted on war crime charges failed to draw more than a few thousand people in Zagreb. Many more thousands had been expected. Gen. Mirko Norac, suspected in the killings of Serbian civilians in 1992, remains in hiding, but has reportedly entered into telephone negotiations with the government. Carlotta Gall (NYT)

CHECHNYA: LIFE SENTENCE FOR REBEL
A Russian court issued a life sentence against a Chechen rebel who was said to have confessed to executing four Russian soldiers by pistol as a video camera recorded it. The videotape helped generate public sentiment for Russia's 1999 invasion of Chechnya. Prosecutors are said to be investigating abuses by Russians as well, but a Human Rights Watch report concluded that such inquiries have gone almost nowhere despite compelling evidence of murder, torture and looting. Michael Wines (NYT)

UKRAINE: STUDENTS PROTEST
Students pressed on with protests against President Leonid Kuchma, staging two rallies to demand the truth about a missing journalist. About 100 students gathered outside the American Embassy and handed over a petition asking the United States to use its influence to solve the mystery of the journalist, Georgy Gongadze. (Reuters)

SPAIN: PLEA ON GUSINSKY REJECTED
The highest criminal court has decreed that the Russian media magnate Vladimir Gusinsky, who is wanted by Moscow on fraud charges, should remain under house arrest rather than return to jail. Spanish prosecutors, representing the Russian government, argued that Mr. Gusinsky should be held in prison pending extradition hearings. Mr. Gusinsky, who says the charges against him are politically motivated, is being held on $5.5 million bail. Emma Daly (NYT)

THE AMERICAS

CANADA: EXTRADITION VS. DEATH PENALTY
The Supreme Court ruled that two Canadians facing murder charges in the United States can be extradited only if American prosecutors promise not to seek the death penalty. The court said "in the Canadian view of fundamental justice, capital punishment is unjust and should be stopped." Atif Rafay and Sebastian Burns are accused of murdering Mr. Rafay's father, mother and sister in Bellevue, Wash., in 1994. Susan Catto (NYT)

EL SALVADOR: PLEA FOR QUAKE AID
With hospitals running out of beds, blood and medicine, officials appealed for international help for thousands of victims of El Salvador's second earthquake in a month. The National Emergency Committee put the death toll at 276, with 2,715 injured and 17,925 houses destroyed. (AP)

AFRICA

LIBERIA: PLEDGE ON REFUGEES
President Charles Taylor pledged to help the United Nations move thousands of refugees caught in a conflict in Guinea, while denying that Liberian soldiers were involved in the fighting. Mr. Taylor offered the help to Ruud Lubbers, the United Nations high commissioner for refugees. Mr. Taylor said Liberia was ready to open a corridor to allow access to the refugees and said personnel in Sierra Leone from the United Nations, which has a big peacekeeping operation, would be welcome to assist. (Reuters)

ASIA

MALAYSIA: POLICE DISPERSE PROTESTERS
The police fired tear gas and used high-powered hoses to disperse a large rally in support of a democratic opposition party, Keadilan, in Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad's constituency in the north. Organizers, who were celebrating the defection of members of Dr. Mahathir's party, estimated the crowd at 10,000; the police said it was half that. Seth Mydans (NYT)

VIETNAM: CALM RETURNS
A government spokeswoman said calm had returned to two remote mountain provinces where troops had moved in to quell sometimes violent disturbances this month. An exile group in the United States said the disturbances erupted after the arrest of two Christian activists. Seth Mydans (NYT)

BANGLADESH: NEW OPPOSITION STRIKE
Dhaka was paralyzed again when the opposition political alliance, led by Khaleda Zia of the Bangladesh Nationalist Party, called a strike. She said three members of her party had been killed in an earlier strike. Since the Awami League won election in 1996, opposition groups have routinely held strikes in a vain attempt to force a change in government, a strategy that damages the economy. Celia W. Dugger (NYT)

MIDDLE EAST

IRAN: KHATAMI WARNING
President Mohammad Khatami said democracy was the only way for Iran to emerge from its economic crisis, and warned his hard-line opponents that time was running out. Mr. Khatami, nearing the end of his first term, has been increasingly vocal in defending his liberal reforms and is widely expected to seek a new term in a June election. (Reuters)

INTERNATIONAL

HARMFUL FARMING
Intensive farming, blamed by many for spreading mad cow disease across Europe, has damaged the environment and may cripple the world's ability to feed a growing population, a food policy research group said. "Agricultural production is being achieved at the expense of our ability to feed ourselves and future generations," said Adlai Amor, spokesman for the World Resources Institute in Washington.(Reuters)

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXTRADITION (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); SENTENCING (88%); LITIGATION (88%); JAIL SENTENCING (88%); JOURNALISM (86%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (75%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (75%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (74%); HOUSE ARREST (74%); TORTURE (74%); EVIDENCE (74%); CAPITAL CRIMES (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); PETITIONS (70%); MURDER (69%); ARRESTS (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); APPEALS (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (63%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (92%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) SERBIA (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (93%); CROATIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); ALBANIA (92%); SPAIN (79%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2001 



399 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1549 words

HEADLINE: Bugs in Silicon Alley, And Some Can Crawl; 
New-Economy Tenants Cope With an Old Building's Troubles

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
It was the building everyone was talking about. 
 Just as commercial space in Manhattan was becoming increasingly scarce a couple of years ago, new owners began promoting the Starrett-Lehigh Building on the far West Side as the new headquarters of the new economy. 
 The 19-story building, a leaky relic of the city's industrial past, had more rentable space than the Chrysler Building and boasted wraparound views of the city and the Hudson River. Raw, wide open spaces could be customized in ways that the buttoned-down buildings of Midtown and the financial district could not. 
The call was heard by companies willing to leave neighborhoods with subway service and Starbucks franchises. They moved to the blocklong behemoth between 26th and 27th Streets and 11th and 12th Avenues -- a no man's land of industrial buildings and auto-repair shops -- and got relatively low rents for raw space that they would finish themselves. Before long, Starrett-Lehigh began to fill up with chic tenants like Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, Hugo Boss, ScreamingMedia and Inside.com. 
The only discouraging words seemed to come from the old tenants, manufacturing and storage companies who said the new owners were trying to force them out with the same zeal they were using to attract art galleries, fashion designers, photography studios and Internet companies.
But a little more than two years later, with the Internet boom tilting toward bust, it is the new tenants who are doing most of the complaining. 
"At first, it sounded daring, edgy and hip" to move into the Starrett-Lehigh Building, said Robert Hunter, a senior editor at SmartMoney.com. "But when we got here, the location was the injury and the building was the insult."
The employees' union at SmartMoney has filed a grievance with one of its parent companies, Dow Jones & Company, complaining about the heating, cooling and ventilation systems; insect infestation; air quality; fire safety; and the neighborhood's remoteness. (The closest subway station is on Eighth Avenue.)
The building's owners, a group of investors, say that only a minority of the tenants are unhappy and that the daunting task of updating a 70-year-old building is still under way.
But other people who work in the building have also complained about giant cockroaches, the long wait for the building's off-again-on-again elevators, the lack of fire alarms on some floors, sporadic heat and electricity, and diesel fumes blown into offices on the building's West 26th Street side by portable generators which were brought in to increase the power supply. (City buildings and safety officials have cited the owners for some of the problems.)
Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, whose executives would not comment on current conditions at the building, amended its lease last year to take over an entire floor, with the provision that the owners add two elevators, upgrade existing ones and install a fire alarm system throughout the building.
The work was to have been completed last year, but much of it has yet to to be done.
There are currently four small passenger elevators, two of them designated to serve the top 10 floors. During busy times, the elevators often fill up with so many people on the upper floors that they reach the maximum weight allowed and just pass the people who are waiting on the middle levels. 
Some people say that at its worst, getting in and out of the building can mean waiting for an elevator for up to 50 minutes.
Michael Hirschorn, editor in chief of Inside.com, which covers the media and entertainment industries, said, "I don't think that anyone thought this was going to be Fifth Avenue, but we thought that the basic functions of the building would be in order."
Starrett-Lehigh's owners contend that a small but loud group of tenants has drowned out the voices of tenants who are happy. Besides, they say, it is too early to judge their success in transforming a building made for the 1930's. 
"We've basically rebuilt a building with people inside it," said Robert Kurtz, the managing and leasing agent at 601 West Associates, the partnership that owns Starrett-Lehigh. "I understand where a tenant could be coming from. I hear them. It is tough."
Mr. Kurtz said he hoped that two new elevators would come on line this month. But many other renovations, including improvements to the heating and cooling systems and repairs to hallway bathrooms, will not be completed until the end of the year, he said.
Mr. Kurtz said that management's dream "is to make this an exciting and creative place," and that he hoped that tenants would wait for the work to be completed. He said that the owners had allowed several tenants to break their leases and leave.
William Cohen, an executive vice president at Newmark & Company Real Estate, the broker of leases for Hugo Boss and ScreamingMedia, which provides content to Web sites, said that with plenty of venture capital floating around in a tight real estate market, many companies may not have scrutinized, or even cared about, the costs, the owners, the neighborhood or the plans for the building when they signed leases.
"The fact that buildings in Brooklyn got rehabs is because they had to do it in order to be competitive," he said. "But some of these buildings in Manhattan can get away with the unthinkable."
In June 1998, at the height of the Internet boom, a group of investors led by David Werner and Mark Karasick, and financed by Credit Suisse First Boston, bought the building for $152 million.
The partners say that they have spent $22 million on renovations, including a new lobby created in the space of a truck bay, and that the estimated value of the building has grown to $400 million.
Some real estate brokers thought the investors paid too much because the building needed costly repairs. The partners, however, offered companies raw space at discounted rents -- $25 to $30 per square foot a year, compared with about $65 per square foot in Midtown -- leaving much of the heavy renovations to the tenants. Less than 5 percent of the building is not leased, although Mr. Kurtz said much of it is unoccupied and undergoing renovation.
The plan, which seemed to work because the dot-coms and other companies were flush with venture capital and were willing to use some of it on their offices, is now in doubt. Mr. Cohen, the broker, said that the economics have changed, and that there is less money for renovations. "When you weigh out some of the things after the fact, some of these tenants might rethink it," he said.
Elizabeth Arth, the office manager at Sibling Entertainment, which runs Mixed Greens, an art Web site, said her biggest complaint was location, location, location. "Life here is," she paused, "life at the Starrett-Lehigh Building. There is no way to describe it unless you are a tenant.
"You wait to get out of the building, then you wait to get on the bus, then you wait to get on a train," she said. "It is not like you can just walk out of the building and get something to eat. Block out two hours."
At SmartMoney.com, officials had been candid about their efforts to break their lease. "People are very upset that we are working in a warehouse in warehouse conditions, the air is bad, we are worried about fire safety and the elevators are inconsistent," said Lawrence Carrel, a reporter and a union steward at SmartMoney.
Mr. Hunter, the SmartMoney editor, remembers the day that a fire started in an elevator shaft: he smelled smoke and traveled down 12 floors in a separate elevator before he heard a single alarm bell ring. "It was disturbing," Mr. Hunter said, adding that he hoped SmartMoney would decide not to renovate half of a floor it had planned to move into later.
Real estate brokers say Starrett-Lehigh may suffer a fate similar to the one it met shortly after it opened 70 years ago: a good idea whose timing was bad.
Completed in 1931, the building was designed as a manufacturing center and a transportation link. Railroad tracks ran from the pier at the end of West 26th Street and into the ground level of the building. Railroad cars could be brought into the building from barges that came across the Hudson River or the tracks running along the West Side. They could also be carried into or taken out of the building through two immense elevators that open onto loading docks at the center of nearly every floor.
But the building quickly became obsolete as other new architectural wonders, the Holland and Lincoln Tunnels and the George Washington Bridge, made the commercial shipping barges of the Hudson River give way to the trucks of the region's highways.
For decades, it languished in neglect. In the early 1970's, the building was bought by Helmsley-Spear Inc. Former tenants say broken windows, leaky pipes and gaping holes in walls went unrepaired. By the early 1990's, with a high vacancy rate and low rents, the building was losing millions of dollars a year.
Still, not every new tenant thinks the complaints are warranted. "For people who are coming from Madison Avenue, it is going to be a shocking change," said Jason McCabe Calacanis, editor of the Silicon Alley Reporter, a magazine with a photography studio in the building. "For people who were in the building two years ago, it has amazingly improved. It's a perspective issue."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 11, 2003

 CORRECTION:
On Thursday, June 12, 2003, The Times published an Editors' Note stating that ten additional articles by Jayson Blair, who resigned on May 1 as a reporter, were found to include misrepresentations or possible borrowed passages. An accounting of those articles was published online at nytimes.com/corrections.html. This article was among those described. The description:

'Bugs in Silicon Alley, and Some Can Crawl; New-Economy Tenants Cope with an Old Building's Troubles'
 In this article, about tenants' complaints at the Starrett-Lehigh Building on the West Side of Manhattan, Michael Hirschorn of Inside.com is quoted as having said, 'I don't think that anyone thought this was going to be Fifth Avenue, but we thought that the basic functions of the building would be in order.' Mr. Hirschorn says that although he was interviewed by Mr. Blair, he did not make that comment. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Starrett-Lehigh Building on the far West Side was renovated to attract Internet businesses, but now many who work there are complaining about problems like cockroaches and sporadic heating. Giant air shafts and loading bays attest to the old building's industrial origins. (Photographs by Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Tenants of the Starrett-Lehigh Building, which takes up a city block, have so far had to make do with only four small elevators, which fill up fast, and they say that they sometimes must wait almost an hour for one. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); FRANCHISING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%); TRENDS (75%); HVAC SYSTEMS (75%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR SERVICES (74%); FASHION & APPAREL (72%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (69%); FASHION DESIGNERS (66%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (66%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (65%); PHOTOGRAPHY (65%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELEVATORS AND ESCALATORS 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (64%); MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (55%)

TICKER: MSO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (64%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (64%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (64%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (64%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: BLAIR, JAYSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; 

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2001 



400 of 764 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Rate of All I.R.S. Audits Falls; Poor Face Particular Scrutiny 

BYLINE:  By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
Audits of tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service, already at a record low in 1999, fell almost 50 percent last year.
 The chance of an individual tax return's being audited last year was less than one in 200, down from one in 112 in 1999 and one in 60 in 1996, new data and revised figures for last year show. 
 Even those figures significantly overstate the risk of an audit for most taxpayers. That is because, under orders from Congress, the I.R.S. is giving particular attention to returns filed by the working poor who apply for a special tax credit. Such returns accounted for 44 percent of all audits. 
Among taxpayers who did not apply for that credit, the audit rate last year was just one in 370.
For taxpayers who make more than $100,000, and who pay 62 percent of all individual income taxes, the audit rate last year was slightly less than one in 100, down from one in 50 in 1998 and down from one in 9 in 1988.
Audits of corporations also fell, by nearly 13 percent from the record low in 1999. The I.R.S. did not release data on audits of the largest corporations, with more than $250 million of assets, which pay more than 80 percent of corporate income taxes.
Commissioner Charles O. Rossotti, disclosing the new figures yesterday, attributed the decline in audit rates to the shrinking of the I.R.S. auditing staff even as the number of tax returns grew, and to the diversion of I.R.S. employees to other functions as required by several new laws aimed at protecting taxpayers from abuses.
In 1999, for the first time, the poor were more likely than the rich to have their tax returns audited, as the I.R.S. followed through on orders from Congress to closely examine the working poor who apply for the special credit, known as the Earned Income Tax Credit. But last year the rich were again more likely than the poor to be audited. For those making less than $25,000 last year the audit rate was one in 161, compared with one in 100 for those making more than $100,000.
Over all, the I.R.S. examined, either in a limited procedure or a thorough audit, a total of 617,765 tax returns, down two-thirds from the 1.94 million returns audited in 1996.
Mr. Rossotti said the steady drop in audit rates might be coming to an end. "I hope we will stabilize this year," he said, adding that he hopes to get budget increases that will allow audit rates to begin rising next year.
The recent economic boom has generated so much tax money that it masks the effect of cheating that has been encouraged by a lower risk of detection in audits, said David Burnham, a Syracuse University researcher whose team will soon post on its Web site detailed I.R.S. data, including figures on auditing of the poor that were not available yesterday from the I.R.S.
"Politicians can easily duck the issue" of enforcement and its role in fairness because of the surge of revenue, Mr. Burnham said.
The White House said it was unaware of Mr. Rossotti's announcement and had no comment.
John Feehrey, a spokesman for Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois, said that "there is no movement in the House to compel the I.R.S. to audit more people." 
Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said the 2,000 employees whom Congress had authorized the I.R.S. to hire this year and the modernization of tax return processing should remove concerns about audit rates falling.
"When Congress enacted I.R.S. reform legislation, we realized this wouldn't be an easy transition, and that there would be shortfalls in I.R.S. work," he said. "Regardless, treating taxpayers fairly and assisting taxpayers are critical missions for the I.R.S. They shouldn't inhibit the agency from performing any other responsibilities. If they do, something's fundamentally wrong."
The chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, Representative Bill Thomas, Republican of California, also had no comment, his spokesman, Trent Duffy, said.
Mr. Rossotti warned taxpayers against cheating on the assumption that low audit rates meant little chance of being caught, a practice known as audit roulette. "If gambling is what you have a passion for," he said, "I would say you have better odds going to Las Vegas. Yes, these audit rates are down, but audits are not the only way we identify taxpayers. We get more than a billion pieces of information that come in from third parties and even though we are slow, our computers eventually do their job."
Audits and I.R.S. computers only catch cheating by those who operate within the tax system and are known to the government. A small number of businesses have stopped withholding taxes from their workers' paychecks and have stopped filing reports with the I.R.S.
Several hundred of these business- people and their supporters, who say the I.R.S. has no legal authority to collect taxes, are to gather tomorrow in Arlington, Va., to seek to expand their movement. The I.R.S. this week announced a crackdown on businesspeople who fail to withhold and turn over taxes.
Mr. Rossotti said his sweeping reorganization of the I.R.S. played only a minor role in the drop in audit rates last year.
"It is mostly a combination of additional time it takes to do each case, which has increased since the Reform and Restructuring Act was passed in 1998, as well as having fewer people," he said. He said that until this year Congress had not appropriated enough money to replace auditors lost to normal attrition. 
He also acknowledged widespread reports from within the agency of poor morale and fearfulness of pressing cases against taxpayers, especially those whose lawyers or accountants threaten to invoke a portion of the 1998 restructuring act, which mandates the firing of any I.R.S. employee for committing any of 10 specific acts that constitute harassment of a taxpayer.
"There has been a bit of hesitancy," Mr. Rossotti said, adding that he thinks that as his staff becomes more familiar with the new law, any reluctance to act will fade. 
He said the number of auditors, which fell to 12,550 last year from 13,061 in 1999 and nearly 16,000 in 1996, may grow slightly in the coming year. And he said those auditors would be more efficient because fewer of them would be diverted to claims involving divorce cases and to other work mandated by Congress, including answering telephone inquiries from taxpayers.
But he said that even if his staff of auditors grew, audit rates might not rise. Instead, he said, he might use auditors and tax collectors to go after abusive trusts, many of them run by people who claim that the tax laws are a hoax and others by promoters who help Americans hide income through offshore bank accounts.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Fewer Audits"The percentage of income tax returns audited by the Internal Revenue Service has declined steadily over the last four years. Chart shows the percentage of income tax returns audited by the Internal Revenue Service in the last four years.(Source: Internal Revenue Service)(pg. C11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH<TPO>INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); AUDITS (91%); TAX LAW (91%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAX AUDITS (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BUDGETS (78%); CORPORATE TAX (68%); WEB SITES (50%) TAXATION; TAX CREDITS; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (94%) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY; ROSSOTTI, CHARLES O (COMR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2001 

 
