

401 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: The Boss Pays Tribute to Soul, and Rocks the Apollo, Too

BYLINE: JAMES C. MCKINLEY JR.


HIGHLIGHT: Bruce Springsteen thrilled a crowd of VIPs at the Apollo Theater in Harlem Friday night, stomping through the angry folk-rock tunes from his new album, giving the crowd muscular versions of hits from his early career and doing a few soul tunes to honor the place where he was standing. 

 BODY:
Bruce Springsteen thrilled a crowd of V.I.P.'s at the Apollo Theater in Harlem on Friday night, stomping through the angry folk-rock tunes from his new album, giving the crowd muscular versions of hits from his early career and doing a few soul tunes to honor the place where he was standing.
It was a powerhouse two-and-a-half hour performance during which Mr. Springsteen played myriad roles: sometimes he seemed like a gospel preacher trying to raise up his audience in spirit, other times he slipped into an oddly compelling imitation of a 1960s soul singer and at other moments he adopted his hard-bitten folk-singer persona, singing about the plight of the working class.
And yet when he played oldies from his early years -- like "Thunder Road," "Tenth Avenue Freeze Out," "Badlands" and "The E Street Shuffle" -- it was possible to forget all those later Springsteens, and remember the scruffy youth in a T-shirt who invented a shuffling, soul-soaked, rebellious rock on the Jersey Shore in the 1970s. During these songs, the crowd - which seemed heavily weighted toward people who were young in the 1970s and 1980s - responded with cheers, sang the lyrics and filled the aisles to dance.
The concert was sponsored by Sirius XM, the satellite radio network, to commemorate its 10th anniversary and was broadcast on a channel devoted to Mr. Springsteen's oeuvre. Some of the people in the audience won tickets through a promotion on the radio network, but others were invited guests. The celebrities in attendance included Harry Belafonte, Elvis Costello, Michael J. Fox, Michael Douglas and John McEnroe. 
The show was the first time Mr. Springsteen and the E Street Band had played a full concert at the Apollo, though Mr. Springsteen appeared there alone to tape a television show with Mr. Costello.
"When we played here, neither of us wanted to stand in the center of the stage," Mr. Costello recalled just before the show. "Right in the center, that's hallowed ground."
Mr. Springsteen stood squarely in that hallowed place when he took the stage minutes later. He started off by delivering a comic introduction for himself, imitating the hyperbole of announcers at the Apollo while the 16-member band behind him vamped on a soul riff. "Welcome to the Apollo," he said. "I would like to introduce to you a young man who was born in the U.S.A." Then he called himself "the hardest working white man in show business."
The band launched into "We Take Care of Our Own," a hard-rocking protest song about what he sees as the lack of compassion in America. It is the lead-off track on Mr. Springsteen's new album - "Wrecking Ball" -- released last Tuesday on Columbia Records.
But only about half the set - 8 of the 19 songs he performed - was from the new album. He also played three songs from his 2002 album "The Rising" and one song off his acoustic 1982 album "Nebraska." The rest were soul covers or his famous hits from the mid-1970s.
While introducing the band during "My City of Ruins," Mr. Springsteen coaxed the crowd to applaud for several minutes for a missing member:Clarence Clemons, the saxophonist who died last summer. Replacing him was his nephew Jake Clemons, who acquitted himself well on several solos. 
About halfway through the show, Mr. Springsteen paid homage to the Apollo, a 1,526-seat mecca where every major R&B and soul singer has come to prove themselves since the 1930s. The Boss assembled the singers in his band at center stage to start up a rich a cappella intro to Smokey Robinson's "The Way You Do the Things You Do" while he rhapsodized about what soul music meant to him. 
"If you played in a bar on the central New Jersey shore in the '60s and '70s, you played soul music," he began. "Motown. Atlantic. Stax. These are the labels whose very names held power and mystery for us when we were young."
"We knew that way off in some never-never land of rhythm and blues there was a place called the Apollo," he went on. "It was the home of the gods and the true temple of soul."
He said while he and his band mates were learning their craft in VFW halls and high school gyms in New Jersey "all the men and women who worked on this stage were our teachers and our masters and they schooled us." 
He said he had learned about religion from Aretha Franklin and got his sex education from Marvin Gaye. "And of course there was the poetry, the poetry, the poetry of Smokey Robinson," he concluded before segueing into the song. Not only did the E Street Band do a stirring version of "The Way You Do the Things You Do" (with six voices singing close harmony) but they capped it with "634-5789," the tune made famous by Wilson Pickett 1966. 
Mr. Springsteen, who is 62, sang the lead parts of those songs while wading into the audience, climbing up on a balcony and dancing on a lighting truss protruding from the mezzanine above the crowd. He climbed down another lighting truss to clamber back to the stage. 
The exuberance of the soul medley contrasted sharply with the heavy folk beat, gloomy lyrics and gallows humor of some of the new songs. "Death to My Hometown," which sounds like a drinking song at an Irish wake, describes the destruction unscrupulous bankers and business leaders can visit on a community. "Shackled and Drawn" is a thumping work song about income inequality. 
But Mr. Springsteen is nothing if not an energetic performer, and he rocked the house into a frenzy even when his message was grim. 
Mr. Springsteen kept his political comments to a minimum, letting the protest songs speak for themselves. But introducing "Mansion on the Hill," he talked about writing it during the "Carter recession" and added that the gap between rich and poor had only widened since then. ""On our new records our motto is dancing and crying," he said. "This one is just crying." 
Then he sang the plaintive verses about a working-class man living in the shadow of "that mansion on the hill." Patti Scialfa, his wife, sang an upper harmony while he finger-picked an acoustic guitar. The harmonies were shaky at first but as the song progressed they fell in tune, face to face, inches apart. At the end he kissed her.
"And that's how the whole (expletive) thing started," he said. 
***
For Bruce Springsteen fans, here is the setlist:
1. We Take Care of Our Own (2012)
2. Wrecking Ball (2012)
3. Badlands (1978)
4. Death to My Hometown (2012)
5. My City of Ruins (2002)
6. The E Street Shuffle (1973)
7. Jack of All Trades (2012)
8. Shackled and Drawn (2012)
9. Waiting on a Sunny Day (2002)
10. Promised Land (1978)
11. Mansion on the Hill (1982)
12. The Way You Do the Things You Do (1964) by Smokey Robinson and Bobby Rogers, recorded by The Temptations.
13. 634-5789 (1966) by Eddie Floyd and Steve Cropper, recorded by Wilson Pickett.
14. The Rising (2002)
15. We Are Alive (2012)
16. Thunder Road (1975)
17. Rocky Ground (2012)
18. Land of Hope and Dreams (2012)
19. Tenth Avenue Freeze Out (1975) 

        
Springsteen to Play the Grammys
        
Springsteen Announces U.S. Tour Dates
        
Report Says Clarence Clemons Had a Stroke
        
Lionel Richie to Enter Apollo Theater Hall of Fame, and Then, He Says, 'An Epidemic of Duets'
        
Seven Words You Can Say on Radio: Carlin's Daughter Gets a Comedy Interview Show

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RECORD RELEASES (90%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); SATELLITE RADIO (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (86%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (86%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); CELEBRITIES (74%); MUSIC GENRES (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%) Apollo Theater; Bruce Springsteen; E Street Band; Sirius XM; Springsteen, Bruce; Music; Rock Music; Sirius XM Radio Inc; Soul Music; New York City

COMPANY: SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (94%) Apollo Theater; E Street Band; Sirius XM Radio Inc

TICKER: SIRI (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (54%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (54%)

PERSON: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (93%) Springsteen, Bruce

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



402 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Jobs

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at the president's weekly address and happenings in Washington. 

 BODY:
Today's Times
strong growth in jobs

        
The lieutenant governor of South Carolina, Ken Ard, resigned on Friday and pleaded guilty to criminal charges of spending campaign funds on personal expenses and fabricating donations, Robbie Brown reports.

        
Rick Santorum is widely expected to carry the caucuses in Kansas, Trip Gabriel reports. Campaign experts predict a Santorum victory partly because the other leading contenders have largely skipped the state, and partly because there, socially conservative voters prevail.

        
For Massachusetts officials used to the glad-handing and alcohol-lubricated culture of local politics, Mitt Romney was an unfamiliar breed: a data-driven chief executive who displayed little interest in getting to know lawmakers and never developed real relationships within the legislature, Michael Barbaro reports. His approach as governor could offer hints of how a President Romney might deal with Congress, where many members complain that the man he is seeking to oust, President Obama, has been distant and disdainful. 
Weekly Address

        
President Obama, in his weekly address, said his administration is making a renewed effort to build an economy for the next generation of Americans, putting the main focus on technology that promotes fuel-efficiency. He commended one Virginia factory for adding new manufacturing jobs and producing parts for next-generation jet engines. "And it's not just that we're building stuff. We're building better stuff," he said. "That last part is important. Because whether you're paying for a plane ticket, or filling up your gas tank, technology that helps us get more miles to the gallon is one of the easiest ways to save money and reduce our dependence on foreign oil." 
Around the Web

        
Gov. Bob McDonnell of Virginia may have had harsh words for Mr. Obama in the past, but on Friday he reminded the president that "Virginia is for Lovers," Politico reports.
Happenings in Washington

        
A group of Catholics will demonstrate at noon Saturday in front of the Health and Human Services building to protest the federal mandate on contraception coverage. 

        
Wounded, ill and injured soldiers and army veterans are in Washington this weekend to compete for a place on the Army Warrior Games team.
 

        
The Early Word: Plan of Action
        
The Early Word: Expectations
        
The Weekend Word: Into the Fray
        
The Early Word: Competing Interests
        
The Early Word: Comebacks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); POLITICS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ARMIES (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (66%); VETERANS (60%); ARMED FORCES (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); CONTRACEPTION (50%); RELIGION (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); RICK SANTORUM (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



403 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Breakfast Menu, March 11

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Newt Gingrich, Rick Santorum, Robert Gibbs, Henry A. Kissinger and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. are some of the guests on this week's shows. 

 BODY:
The Republican presidential race, February's job report and the conflict in Syria are among the subjects in this week's Sunday shows.
Amid calls for him to drop out of the race, the former House Speaker Newt Gingrich is looking to Alabama and Mississippi as must-win states in Tuesday's primaries. He will talk about his prospects on "Fox News Sunday" and CBS's "Face the Nation." CBS will also feature Robert Gibbs, senior adviser to the Obama re-election campaign.
On NBC's "Meet the Press" and Bloomberg's "Political Capital," Rick Santorum will discuss what is ahead for his campaign as he contends with having fewer resources than Mitt Romney. Tim Pawlenty, the former Minnesota governor and co-chairman of Mr. Romney's campaign, will also be on Bloomberg.
Also on NBC: With new employment numbers showing the economy strengthening, Gov. Bob McDonnell of Virginia, chairman of the Republican Governors Association and a supporter of Mr. Romney, and Gov. Martin O'Malley of Maryland, chairman of the Democratic Governors Association, will talk about the role of the economy in the presidential race. Representative Marsha Blackburn, Republican of Tennessee, will join the political roundtable.
Henry A. Kissinger, former secretary of state, is among the guests on CNN's "GPS" this week, where he will talk about what is going on in Syria, Iran, the Middle East, China and Russia.
In addition to Mr. Gingrich, Fox will feature Senator John McCain of Arizona, ranking member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, who will weigh in on the conflict in Syria and whether the United States should intervene.
Senator Carl Levin of Michigan, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, will be on C-Span's "Newsmakers."
Senators Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, and Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, will discuss the jobs report, Syria and Iran on ABC's "This Week."
On CNN's "State of the Union," Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Senate majority leader, will talk about the Democratic agenda in Congress as well as the presidential race. Then, Richard Gephardt, former Democratic presidential candidate and House majority leader, and Steve Forbes, former Republican presidential candidate and chairman and editor in chief of Forbes Media, will share their thoughts on the race.
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. will be featured on Telemundo's "Enfoque" and Univision's "Al Punto." On Telemundo, he will discuss drug and immigration policy. On Univision, the topics will include Iran, drug legalization and Operation Fast and Furious.
And TV One's "Washington Watch" will have Representative James E. Clyburn, Democrat of South Carolina, on February's employment numbers and the job and highway bills in Congress.

        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, Feb. 26
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, Feb. 19
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, Feb. 12
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, Jan. 15
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu, January 1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); DECRIMINALIZATION (71%); DRUG POLICY (62%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%) sunday shows; The Caucus

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); FORBES INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); RICK SANTORUM (73%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); MARTIN O'MALLEY (58%); HARRY REID (58%); JAMES CLYBURN (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); MARSHA BLACKBURN (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%); CARL LEVIN (58%); JOE BIDEN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) SYRIA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



404 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1223 words

HEADLINE: Amid Gains, Municipalities In Dire Straits

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
ALBANY -- It was not a good week for New York's cities and counties.
On Monday, Rockland County sent a delegation to Albany to ask for the authority to close its widening budget deficit by issuing bonds backed by a sales tax increase.
On Tuesday, Suffolk County, one of the largest counties outside New York City, projected a $530 million deficit over a three-year period and declared a financial emergency. Its Long Island neighbor, Nassau County, is already so troubled that a state oversight board seized control of its finances last year.
And the city of Yonkers said its finances were in such dire straits that it had drafted Richard Ravitch, the former lieutenant governor, to help chart a way out.
Even as there are glimmers of a national economic recovery, cities and counties increasingly find themselves in the middle of a financial crisis. The problems are spreading as municipalities face a toxic mix of stresses that has been brewing for years, including soaring pension, Medicaid and retiree health care costs. And many have exhausted creative accounting maneuvers and one-time spending cuts or revenue-raisers to bail themselves out. 
The problem has national echoes: Stockton, Calif., a city of almost 300,000, is teetering on the verge of bankruptcy. Jefferson County, Ala., made the biggest Chapter 9 bankruptcy filing in history in November and stopped paying its bondholders. In Rhode Island, the city of Central Falls declared bankruptcy last year, and the mayor of Providence, the state capital, has said his city is at risk as its money runs out.
New York City's annual pension contributions have increased to $8 billion from $1.5 billion over the past decade.
''We really are up against it,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said during a recent trip to Albany, urging the state to reduce pension benefits for future public employees. In a radio interview on Friday, Mr. Bloomberg noted the spreading financial woes of local governments, saying, ''Towns and counties across the state are starting to have to make the real choices -- fewer cops, fewer firefighters, slower ambulance response, less teachers in front of the classroom.''
And Thomas S. Richards, the mayor of Rochester, recently described a grim situation facing New York's cities in testimony to the State Legislature, saying, ''I fear that Rochester and other upstate cities are approaching the point of financial failure and an inevitable financial control board -- as is the case in Buffalo -- unless something is done now.''
The concerns of municipal officials are validated by the ratings agency Moody's, which downgraded the debt of Rockland County and Utica last month, and Yonkers and Long Beach last year. New York is hardly alone, and certainly not the worst; for four straight years, Moody's has had a negative outlook for the country's local governments. And the problems are likely to persist.
''We expect that the pressure from fixed expenditures, and pensions in particular, will continue to be a strain,'' said Geordie Thompson, a Moody's analyst. ''This is where the budgetary tradeoffs will continue to be difficult. There will have to be tradeoffs that will have to be made to make those payments.''
Pension costs are a particular problem. The stock market collapse of 2008 decimated public pension fund investments, and municipalities are now being asked for greater contributions to make up for the losses. The impact has been drastic: Three percent of New York property tax collections were used to pay pension costs in 2001; by 2015, pension costs are expected to eat up 35 percent of property tax collections.
Falling property values have also affected cities and towns because lower assessments hurt property tax collections.
The state is taking some steps to ease municipal burdens, but they come with risks. A relatively new plan allows municipalities to borrow from the state pension fund, with interest, a portion of their required contributions to the pension system.
''It's the worst thing that you can do financially,'' said Steve Bellone, the Suffolk County executive. ''But when you are up against the wall and you have a county that has used every one-shot revenue that it can possibly use already, and you're facing a deficit of huge proportions, suddenly that becomes not such a bad option.''
Suffolk and Nassau are borrowing a combined $85 million this year to pay their required contribution into the state pension system.
''That's where we're at today,'' Mr. Bellone said. ''We are in a financial crisis.''
In an interview, Mayor Stephanie A. Miner of Syracuse said that ''this is uncharted water, in terms of fiscal crisis.'' Her city asked Syracuse University for help, and last year the university agreed to pay $500,000 a year for five years to help bail the city out.
But Syracuse still faces a deficit that threatens to deplete its reserves. The city has cut 125 jobs in two years, transferred a city-run senior center to the Salvation Army and consolidated its purchasing with the county's. It is now considering charging residents extra for picking up televisions with their garbage.
Like many other mayors, Ms. Miner blamed the state government for passing unreasonable costs, like pensions and other mandates, on to municipal governments.
''Unless Albany changes its policies,'' she said, ''we will be dead.''
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo is suggesting new strategies, proposing in his budget to allow municipalities like Albany to receive millions of dollars more in state aid over the next fiscal year in exchange for receiving less in the future. The governor is also proposing that the state assume a greater share of Medicaid cost increases borne by local governments, and that state and local governments be allowed to reduce the pension benefits of future public workers.
''The administration is monitoring each situation closely and remains in direct contact with local officials to find ways the state can be helpful to get them through these very difficult times,'' Josh Vlasto, a spokesman for the governor, said.
The crisis has been forecast by financial experts for some time, in part because municipalities often lag the national economy, meaning that their troubles can crest even as problems for the state and federal governments ease.
''These municipalities will not recover when the economy recovers,'' said Richard Brodsky, a former assemblyman who is advising Yonkers.
''Everybody was complicit in this tsunami, and now it's landing, but not in Washington or Albany,'' he said. ''It's in places like Yonkers, where the choice is between school kids and safe streets.''
C. Scott Vanderhoef, the Rockland County executive who was the Republican Party's nominee for lieutenant governor in 2006, said his county's $52 million deficit had accumulated over the past four or five years. The county legislature rejected proposed layoffs and service cuts in the budget, so the county is seeking to issue bonds to help bridge its budget gap.
''We don't want to become Erie County or Nassau County,'' he said, referring to two counties whose finances are overseen by control boards. ''I think you'll see a dropping off of the programs that many counties now view as important -- law enforcement, economic development, parks and recreation. Those kinds of programs will disappear. Counties will become welfare and Medicaid managers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At left, Richard Ravitch, who is helping Yonkers with its financial woes. At right, Steve Bellone, the Suffolk County executive. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 KAREN WILES/NEWSDAY) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BONDS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (87%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (83%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (77%); CREDIT BUREAUS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); MEDICAID (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SALES TAX (72%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (67%); ACCOUNTING (52%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (92%); UTICA, NY, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



405 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: When Today's Deal Is Tomorrow's Regret

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS QUENQUA

 BODY:
HOW much is a $150 coupon worth? For Matt Sumell, the cost turned out to be one new relationship, as well as a little bit of pride.
In January 2011, Mr. Sumell bought a $150 coupon for a romantic overnight stay in a hotel from LivingSocial, the daily deal site (a savings of about 50 percent). He planned to use it with a woman he had been dating for five years, until that relationship ended.
But Mr. Sumell, an English teacher and fiction writer from Los Angeles, is not one to throw away money. So 11 months later, with the coupon unused and an expiration date looming, he set aside his better judgment and invited a woman he had been dating for only a month.
''I said to her, 'Come with me, we'll take a ride,' '' Mr. Sumell recalled. '' 'It'll be great.' '' 
It was not great.
''The hotel was directly across the street from a Hooters,'' he said, ''and it was bikers' week,'' meaning the hotel was overrun with growling motorcycles and middle-aged men wearing leather. Ambience aside, the sleepover seemed rushed and uncomfortable. ''The whole thing was just really awkward,'' he said.
So it goes for those people who lately find their leisure activities dictated less by their own free will than by the opt-in domination of daily deal sites. While the rapid spread of services like Groupon, LivingSocial and Amazon Local has allowed millions to try restaurants or leisure activities they otherwise couldn't afford (or wouldn't have known about), it is also compelling some people to spend time doing things they don't necessarily want to do.
For some, it's eating dinner in a restaurant they already know they don't like. For others, it's taking classes that promise ''You can learn to salsa'' despite a lifetime of evidence to the contrary.
For Karen Eddinger, a real estate agent in Seattle, it meant signing up for a local cooking class even though she hates cooking almost as much as she hates taking classes.
''I really don't know why I bought it,'' she said.
She also recently made her grandson visit the Seattle Children's Museum for the second time since October not because he liked it, but because she and her ex-husband had unknowingly bought the same Groupon deal. Her daughter and son-in-law have lately attended a number of yoga classes, massages and bad restaurants in an effort to use up their mother's coupons. (For those without family members willing to help, a secondary market for digital coupons has emerged. Sites like DealsGoRound and CoupRecoup let people sell their unwanted coupons at a discount.)
Coupons are nothing new, and shoppers have long made poor decisions in pursuit of saving pennies. But daily deal sites have raised the stakes in convenience (they arrive via e-mail and are bought with a click), savings (half-off deals to upscale establishments are common) and experiences (Want to hang glide? There's a Groupon for that).
Hence a new generation is discovering the hidden downsides of couponing. ''A deal sometimes feels like a really wonderful thing, like you've outsmarted the system and have something special,'' said Dan Ariely, the author of ''Predictably Irrational,'' a book about how a skewed perception of economics can result in poor decisions. ''Because of that, you have an extra sense of accomplishment, which you are willing to pay for in terms of time and money.''
But that perspective can mean a bid to save money can quickly devolve into a boondoggle. Lindsay Hall Harrison, a lawyer from Orlando, Fla., bought a $6 Groupon for $12 worth of ice cream from a shop near a beach that she and her husband had visited a couple of times. The problem: the beach was an hour and a half away, and the Harrisons weren't always in the mood for ice cream by the time they drove there.
''We started making deliberate trips down there just to use up this Groupon,'' she said. ''It was the principle of the thing.'' In the end, she estimated that the couple burned through two to three tanks of gasoline to claim $12 in ice cream, which, she noted, was not particularly great.
Jamie Roo, a marketing director from the Upper West Side, last year found herself eating in a nearby restaurant that she and her husband had long ago decided they didn't like, because she couldn't resist a deal from Amazon Local.
''We somehow persuaded ourselves to go back,'' she said. Not surprisingly, the deal did not make the food taste any better. ''The moral of the story is, don't go just because it's a deal.''
The idea that all of one's leisure-time decisions can be outsourced to daily deal sites is encouraged by the sites themselves. In 2010, Groupon recruited Josh Stevens, a former Census worker from Chicago, to live on nothing but its own deals for a year. The company called Mr. Stevens the Groupawn. Mr. Stevens's real-life counterparts can be found in Kimberly and Stephen Kuhn, who recently moved to Trinity, Fla., from Miami. Before the move, Ms. Kuhn was a self-described LivingSocial ''near-addict,'' who would use up to a dozen coupons a week, not to save money, but to decide where to eat.
''In Miami, there are all these great mom-and-pop places you would never know about because they don't have money to advertise,'' said Ms. Kuhn, who gives credit to her local LivingSocial representative (whom she has met) for having her finger on the pulse of the city.
The Kuhns set a one-day record for themselves in June when they realized they had a backlog of coupons to use before they left Miami. ''My husband took the day off work and we used seven deals in one day,'' all for restaurants, Ms. Kuhn said. ''We started at the very tip of north Broward County and worked our way all the way down to South Beach. It was a really great way to say goodbye to the area.''
Thus far, Ms. Kuhn said, she is disappointed with the quality of the deals in Trinity, which tend to feature chain restaurants.
''It's funny, because I never considered myself a deal addict,'' she said. ''I'm not a couponer, I don't do Sunday sales. We really just used it as a tour guide, so we are missing it for sure.''
But that hasn't stopped her from buying the deals she likes, even if they require some travel. ''My husband still works out of Fort Lauderdale, so we still buy those LivingSocials,'' she said. ''We'll go back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: REPEATERS: Kimberly and Stephen Kuhn at Palm Harbor House of Beer in Palm Harbor, Fla., found via a Groupon app. Left, Karen Eddinger, center, used Groupon to take her grandson to the Seattle Children's Museum. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHIL SUSSMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); RETAIL COUPONS (78%); CHILDREN (75%); ELECTRONIC COUPONS (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); WRITERS (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%); YOGA (61%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (51%); MOTOR VEHICLES (51%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%)

COMPANY: LIVINGSOCIAL INC (58%); GROUPON INC (54%)

TICKER: GRPN (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



406 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Fiction Chronicle

BYLINE: By JOHN WILLIAMS. 
John Williams produces the Bookssection for NYTimes.com.

 BODY:
HISTORY OF A PLEASURE SEEKER By Richard Mason. Knopf, $25.95.
We learn in the first sentence of Mason's fourth novel that its hero, the dashing 24-year-old Piet Barol, is ''extremely attractive to most women and to many men.'' It's fair warning for the democratic dalliances that ensue. Living outside Amsterdam in 1907, Piet is tired of the ''damp,'' ''claustrophobic'' quarters he shares with his taciturn father and eager to exercise the taste for fine living instilled by his deceased mother. He moves to the city to tutor Egbert, the 10-year-old son of a family known to be ''colorful and modern and very rich.'' The other help resent their employers, but Piet ''found something noble in their excesses. He did not judge them, because he intended to emulate them one day.'' The portrait of Egbert, who is obsessive-/compulsive and agoraphobic, is skillful and eerie, but it's the boy's sisters and especially his sexually neglected mother, Jacobina, who dominate Piet's new life. Piet ''knew that his conscience was insufficiently exercised to prevail over his pleasure impulse in fullest sail.'' And how. 
If the book scares off prudish readers, it's their loss. Mason writes in a beautifully turned, classical style that yields both pleasing phrases and psychological complexity. Piet's relationships with Jacobina, Egbert and Didier, a footman who yearns for him, are genuinely moving.
ALL THAT I AM By Anna Funder. Harper/HarperCollins, $25.99.
In her first book, ''Stasiland,'' a panoramic nonfiction account of several East Germans and the secret police who surveilled them, Funder exhibited a reporter's nose for detail and also the novelist's understanding of a good yarn whatever the facts. (''She is losing credibility fast,'' Funder wrote of one source, ''but her story is becoming correspondingly better.'') In her first novel, Funder reverses the trick, building fiction from historical fact. The central characters are Germans in London, working surreptitiously to warn Europe about Hitler's buildup to war: ''We were being offered exile on condition that we were silent about the reason we needed it.'' The novel is narrated alternately by the playwright Ernst Toller, ''the wunderkind of German theater and the conscience of the republic,'' and Ruth Becker, who recounts the action as an elderly woman in 2001. The dual frames can be distracting, but Funder writes with grace and conviction about the intrusion of the political on the domestic and the thrill of falling in love over a cause.
A GOOD AMERICAN By Alex George. Amy Einhorn/Putnam, $25.95.
George, a British lawyer who now practices in Missouri, has written a sprawling hymn to his adopted country. James Meisenheimer tells the story of his family starting with his grandparents Frederick and Jette, who leave Prussia in 1904 and eventually settle in Missouri. Things go well until the Lusitania is sunk, when it's suddenly not so easy to be German in the heartland. There's plenty of storytelling charm on display here, with echoes of John Irving's humane zaniness. But George's influences haven't been fully digested, and ''A Good American'' owes too much to the aphoristic sentimentality of ''Forrest Gump'' and the roll-call history of Billy Joel's ''We Didn't Start the Fire.'' Its less than rigorous prose doesn't help, either. The approach of World War I is ''the dark clouds gathering on the other side of the Atlantic.'' After the stock market crashes, ''the black clouds of economic disaster swept across the country.'' Six pages later, ''A long shadow of terror had fallen across Germany as Adolf Hitler reshaped the country in his ghoulish vision.'' The novel is packed with incident -- some entertaining, some contrived -- and George flashes potential, but whether the hokey whole of this debut novel works will depend on your tolerance for sentences like this: ''While we were growing up, so was America.''
IN-FLIGHT ENTERTAINMENT Stories. By Helen Simpson. Knopf, $24.
Nearly half the stories in Simpson's fifth collection mention global warming. In addition to the usual activists and skeptics, there are those who believe in climate change but are deeply resigned to it. In the title story, two strangers on a plane debate the subject while a third passenger is dying midflight. ''Are you saying I shouldn't fly now?'' Alan asks. '' 'I don't care what you do,' said Jeremy peaceably. 'I don't care about you. You don't care about me. We don't care about him.' He gestured in the direction of the dead man.'' The slight ''Ahead of the Pack'' is written as a pitch to potential backers for a ''personal carbon coach'' to help people reduce their ecological impact. In other stories, the environmental concern feels like a forced attempt at topicality. Simpson is in better form with the purely personal, as in ''Scan,'' in which a woman undergoing an MRI tries to keep her mind occupied, or ''Homework,'' in which a mother helps her son embellish an autobiographical writing assignment with lies. This already slender book has a few stories that feel like filler, but Simpson at full steam is a powerful writer and good company.
THE HEALING By Jonathan Odell. Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $26.
Set in the years before the Civil War, Odell's novel opens with Amanda Satterfield, the grieving, laudanum-addicted wife of a plantation master, wresting a newborn girl from a slave and renaming her Granada. When an illness cripples Master Satterfield's slave population several years later, he pays top dollar to import Polly Shine, a reputed healer. Within three weeks, Polly has cured the slaves through sound nutritional changes and gently whispered biblical phrases. But others in the house know that the newcomer's thoughts about freedom could prove ''more dangerous'' to the status quo ''than the cholera or the blacktongue or the yellow fever.'' Polly's sly efforts at empowerment are also an annoyance to Granada, who is happy with her position as the mistress's favorite and fancies herself different from the slaves. It's clear that much of Polly's skill is scientific, but a patina of spiritualist fuzziness covers the novel. If your book is not called ''Beloved,'' it's awfully difficult to put over sentences like ''The current of her dreaming carried her back to the time before remembering,'' and Odell doesn't. A white man who grew up in the South, sensitive to the region's divisions, he has written a novel about a ''miracle slave'' who heals bodies and souls. If good intentions were prizeworthy, he'd get the Nobel.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Frank Reade: Adventures in the Age of Invention.: The Reades were a family of inventors who once starred in a popular series of dime novels (a cover, above) with an air of Jules Verne. Here, they are treated as historical figures in a playful mock documentary. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); HISTORY (79%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (69%); THEATER & DRAMA (63%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) GERMANY (90%); NETHERLANDS (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: History of a Pleasure Seeker (Book); All That I Am (Book); Good American, A (Book); In-Flight Entertainment (Book); Healing, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



407 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: Gas Price Disparity Seems Here to Stay

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
THE price of gasoline is rising, but the nation isn't sharing the pain equally.
The average price of a gallon of regular was $3.76 a gallon on Friday -- up 8 percent in the last month -- a tabulation that masks significant regional disparities, said Avery Ash, manager of federal relations for the AAA.
A gallon of regular was only $3.33 in Colorado, for example, and in Wyoming it was $3.28, the lowest in the nation. Along the Gulf of Mexico, the price was a bit higher: $3.59 in Texas, $3.60 in Alabama and $3.62 in Louisiana. For nastier numbers, turn to the Northeast and the West Coast: $3.99 in New York and Connecticut and a whopping $4.35 in California.
Global energy markets determine the national trend for oil and gasoline prices, and those markets have been rattled by tensions with Iran. Yet energy markets are also resiliently local, as the patchwork quilt of gasoline prices illustrates. A flood of relatively cheap oil and gasoline is washing through parts of the American heartland, but it's barely reaching consumers in the rest of the nation. 
''Energy is all about infrastructure and logistics,'' said Edward L. Morse, global head of commodities research at Citigroup and a former deputy assistant secretary of state for international energy policy. ''While energy markets are global,'' he said, ''if oil is just sitting in the ground -- or if you can't move it from Point A to Point B -- it's not going to do you a whole lot of good.''
In the United States, a combination of infrastructure constraints and legal impediments makes it very likely that regional price disparities will widen in coming weeks. This is probable even if the government decides to tap the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to bring down overall prices, interviews with industry experts suggest.
First, the global backdrop: Factors tightening supplies include harsh weather in Europe, a cutback in exports from producers like Syria, Yemen and South Sudan, growing demand from India and China, and, increasingly, international measures imposed on Iran. Because of concern about Iran's nuclear program, the United States is restricting bank transactions with Tehran, the European Union has set an embargo on Iranian oil for July 1 and many international insurers have stopped covering tanker pickups of Iranian oil.
The insurance cutoff is already having an effect, said Morten Arntzen , the nonexecutive chairman of Tankers International, a consortium of supertankers based in London. Tankers International is ''not going to Iran any longer,'' he said. (Mr. Arntzen is also chief executive of the Overseas Shipholding Group, the largest United States tanker operator, which, he said, has not taken part in the Iran trade as a company since 2002.)
The possibility that Iran might block shipping in the Strait of Hormuz has added a risk premium to oil futures markets, which are regionally bifurcated, said Robbert Van Batenburg, head of equity research at Louis Capital Markets. The price for Brent crude, widely viewed as the global benchmark for oil, was about $126 a barrel on Friday, far higher than for West Texas Intermediate, often called the American benchmark, which was about $107.
The gap has been widening. North American oil ''is trading at a discount to world prices, because it is landlocked and can't easily be transported to world markets'' -- or to refiners in the Northeast or the West Coast, said Andrew J. Black , president of the Association of Oil Pipe Lines. And East Coast gasoline prices reflect the higher Brent crude price, said Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst for the private Oil Price Information Service.
Crude oil production has increased sharply in Canada and in the central United States in recent years -- including initial production from the Bakken Shale, an oil-rich deposit in North Dakota. This has created what the White House calls a bottleneck in Cushing, Okla., the midcontinent storage hub.
Pipelines connect Cushing to ports and refineries in the gulf, but they flow in only one direction at a time, and were originally designed to move imported oil north from the gulf into the Midwest, Mr. Morse said. In a laborious process, the flow of some pipelines is being reversed and a new one -- the southern part of the Keystone XL pipeline -- is being built to ease the glut. (The pipeline's owner has reapplied for permission to build a northern portion, which would run from Alberta, Canada, to Cushing, after President Obama said that more extensive environmental reviews were needed.)
In the short term, if prices spike further in a geopolitical crisis, the government could release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, a series of storage sites on the gulf in Louisiana and Texas established in the wake of the 1973 oil shock. But Mr. Morse said that moving oil through the north-south pipelines connected to the reserve no longer made sense because of the glut to the north. ''It's not needed there,'' he said.
Moving reserve oil by tanker from the gulf could run into another series of problems. The 1920 Jones Act requires purely domestic cargo to move on ships built in the United States, carrying the American flag and using American crews. Large tankers meeting these requirements are in service on the Alaska-California route, but few are available for additional shipping, according to government reports.
To release oil from the reserve quickly during the Libya crisis last year, the government waived provisions of the Jones Act. Some labor and industry groups oppose a repeat performance.
''In a time of high unemployment in the United States, ignoring the Jones Act, which has been central to American national security and protects American jobs, just makes no sense,'' said Dan Duncan, secretary-treasurer of the maritime trades department of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
And Thomas A. Allegretti, president of the American Waterways Operators, which represents tug and barge operators, says that there are plenty of small to midsize vessels available that are Jones Act-compliant. ''Our barges are transporting a great deal of petroleum products already,'' he said. ''We have a fleet that is ready and able.''
But even if there were enough American-flagged ships to move substantial amounts of additional oil, the price of shipping from the gulf to the Northeast or the West Coast is prohibitive, several industry executives said, because American-flagged vessels charge much higher rates than foreign-flagged ones.
That helps explain why gasoline in the Northeast is so expensive. ''If we could get that cheaper American oil in our Northeast refineries, we would have been using it,'' said Thomas Golembeski, a spokesman for Sunoco, which is closing its refineries in the region. Those operations are unprofitable, he says, partly because Sunoco must import more expensive oil from Europe and Africa.
Prices may ultimately decline nationwide. But as Northeast refineries close, the federal Energy Information Administration says, prices for refined petroleum products in the region are likely to rise compared with the rest of the country. That should be true even when differences in local taxes are taken into account.
Eventually, market forces will bring the Northeast's prices down some, the agency says, but infrastructure and shipping constraints are likely to preserve regional disparities.
Meanwhile, if you are a consumer in a less-favored region, be prepared for more unpleasant price comparisons.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An oil tanker in Corpus Christi, Tex. Gasoline prices are lower in the Midwest and South partly because their refineries are closer to crude oil sources. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDDIE SEAL/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (96%); GASOLINE PRICES (93%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INSURANCE (73%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); QUILTS & QUILTING (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL INSURANCE (66%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%); OVERSEAS SHIPHOLDING GROUP INC (50%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS483113 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (50%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4424 DEEP SEA DOMESTIC TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (50%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) MIDWEST USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); IRAN (79%); CHINA (79%); SYRIA (79%); INDIA (72%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



408 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1709 words

HEADLINE: Afghan Anger and Security Fears Put Aid Groups' Plans at Risk

BYLINE: By MATTHEW ROSENBERG and GRAHAM BOWLEY; Matthew Rosenberg reported from Washington, and Graham Bowley from Kabul, Afghanistan.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The management at a company that does aid and development work for the American government knows that some of its employees in Afghanistan are keeping weapons in their rooms -- and is choosing to look the other way. At another company in the same business, lawyers are examining whether the company can sue the United States Agency for International Development for material breach of contract, citing the deteriorating security in Afghanistan.
An Afghan government plan to abolish private security companies at the end of this month, along with the outbreak of anti-American demonstrations and attacks in the past month, has left the private groups that carry out most of the American-financed development work in Afghanistan scrambling to sort out their operations, imperiling billions of dollars in projects, officials say.
That, in turn, threatens a vital part of the Obama administration's plans for Afghanistan, which envision a continuing development mission after the end of the NATO combat mission in 2014. 
The recent upheaval, set off by the burning of Korans by American military personnel on Feb. 20, cast sudden doubt on nearly every facet of the American presence in Afghanistan, including a long-term strategic partnership deal. On Friday, some progress was made when the United States and Afghanistan reached an agreement for the Afghans to take control of the main coalition prison in six months.
But the fallout on the civilian development side of the mission is having an immediate effect, development workers and experts said. In particular, it is magnifying concerns about the new security arrangements being dictated by the Afghan government, which by March 20 aims to replace the private security companies that now guard aid workers with a hastily raised Afghan force.
Faced with the prospect of sudden change in their security arrangements, with no assurance that the Afghan force can be arranged in time or meet their specific needs, organizations are weighing the future of their operations in the country.
Stan Soloway of the Professional Services Council in Washington, which represents about two dozen private aid contractors, said he knew of two companies that had already decided to finish their current projects and pull out, although he would not name them.
''They just made a decision that there was so much uncertainty, so much risk that they were just not going to continue,'' Mr. Soloway said.
An American employee of one of the aid companies was more blunt. Soldiers are armed and can defend themselves, he said, ''but me and my people, we're easy pickings; we're meat.'' He asked not to be identified because his company told its employees not to speak with reporters about the security situation.
The employee was among the hundreds of civilian ''mentors'' from companies contracted by the American aid agency to help run the Afghan government who were pulled from their jobs during the unrest. As they continue to return, some are now operating under far stricter security constraints, the employee and others said.
One of U.S.A.I.D.'s top managers for Afghanistan acknowledged the development groups' concerns, though officials at the agency said that many of its projects did not require guards. For those that do, ''we are working closely with our staff and partners in Afghanistan to ensure a safe working environment, and we remain fully committed to our strategy of working with our Afghan partners toward a more stable and secure Afghanistan,'' said the official, J Alexander Thier.
One of largest companies working for the aid agency said it planned to station security guards with its people who work in Afghan government ministries, according to an executive at the company, which is based in Washington.
The executive acknowledged that the setup was not ideal. The guards would not be allowed into the ministries, and would instead wait out front during the workday, clearly visible to all those who enter, which ''isn't the image we want to show to everyday Afghans,'' the executive said. But ''we've got to look out for our people.''
The executive also said he and others at his company's Washington headquarters knew that some employees in Afghanistan were keeping weapons in their rooms in case their compounds were attacked, and that management had so far turned a blind eye to the practice, which goes against local law.
The executive, along with many others interviewed for this article, asked not to be identified to avoid angering officials at U.S.A.I.D., the largest donor in the country, or the Afghans their employees work alongside.
While some of the executives' talk appeared to be aimed at pressing American officials to slow down the transition to the new guard force, they all emphasized that their worries about the new guard force were well founded and widespread.
The Afghan operations of many aid groups were already facing cutbacks before the unrest because of declining aid budgets. Development aid to Afghanistan managed by U.S.A.I.D. was reduced to $2 billion in the 2011 fiscal year from $3.4 billion in the 2010 fiscal year.
But there are still major projects under way, and no one is expecting an all-out exodus of aid workers from Afghanistan anytime soon.
Many of the independent aid groups that are not tied financially to the United States say the unrest has hardly affected their operations in large part because they do not believe Afghans associate their groups with the United States. The groups also rarely rely on private security guards the way the aid agency contractors do, and thus are not affected by the Afghan government's abolition of the security companies.
''I don't buy any of that, 'This is a whole new paradigm,' '' said an official who works in the humanitarian aid community.
Workers at the aid groups tied to the United States, however, say it is a new situation for them.
Through U.S.A.I.D., the American government contracts billions of dollars in projects to private companies based in the United States. The companies provide for their own security in Afghanistan as required under their contracts with the agency.
Until now, that has meant hiring private security companies, which in most cases provide expatriate managers -- usually former American or British soldiers -- to oversee Afghan guards. Private security companies also provide security for embassies and the United Nations, all of which are being allowed to keep their existing security arrangements.
The expatriate and Afghan guards, armed with handguns and assault rifles, have long been a fixture on the streets of Kabul, and President Hamid Karzai has railed against their presence as an affront to Afghan dignity and a threat to law and order for almost as long. In 2010, he abruptly ordered the security companies disbanded and replaced by a new force that he said the Afghan government would raise.
The plan that has since taken shape calls for private Afghan guards to become part of the new force, known as the Afghan Public Protection Force, which will be responsible for guarding everything from aid projects to NATO supply convoys.
The force has already trained 8,000 new guards, said Siddiq Siddiqi, a spokesman for the Interior Ministry. He carries his own sidearm for protection.
The roughly 11,000 Afghan guards working for the 45 private security companies operating in Afghanistan will be subsumed into the force this month, he said. They will then be sent back to the same places they worked before, and the companies that had formerly paid a private security company for the guards would instead pay the Interior Ministry to cover their salaries, plus a 20 percent fee for overhead and to provide a profit -- in itself, a useful arrangement for the financially strained government.
The first two American companies -- International Relief and Development and a joint venture between Louis Berger Group and Black & Veatch -- signed contracts to work with the new guard force last week with the Afghan Interior Ministry. American officials hailed the moves as the first sign that the new guard was earning the confidence of the international community.
Many who are to be guarded by the new force are less enthusiastic. There are fears that the guards will prove even less effective than Afghanistan's struggling army or its police force, which are widely viewed as corrupt and have repeatedly turned their guns on the Western forces they work alongside.
Mohammad Hashim Mayar, an adviser to the Agency Coordinating Body for Afghan Relief, an umbrella group for nongovernmental aid organizations, said he feared that the new force would be poorly trained and end up as little more than a militia for the variety of power brokers who dominate Afghan politics -- or the Taliban.
''Right now we think they will be with the government but I am not sure they are with the Taliban,'' he said in an interview. ''They are working for their own interests.''
Most of the independent aid organizations expect to weather the transition as NATO departs, determined to stay in Afghanistan, although in reduced form. CARE, for example, has already reduced its staff to about 450 employees from 1,100 six months ago, mostly because international aid is drying up. Budget cutbacks forced the closing of two of its biggest programs: a teacher-training program aimed in large part at girls' education in the provinces, and a program of works projects in Kabul.
Most of its staff members are Afghans, but its international staff of 16 has also fallen to about 6, and aid workers who could travel more freely two years ago are now confined to the capital, Kabul, because of intensifying security worries.
Its Afghan employees are also finding the space in which they can safely work increasingly restricted. In a central Afghan province close to Kabul, local employees used to be able to reach a project they were working on in the next province by a route that took two hours; now they must make a circuitous 14-hour journey through two other provinces to avoid a widening conflict zone.
''It is getting harder,'' said Jennifer Rowell, advocacy coordinator for CARE in Afghanistan. ''The conflict is getting worse. It will continue to get worse.''
''The country is in a state of slow decline,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An Afghan policeman in Kabul on Saturday supervised a woman seeking to join the Afghan Public Protection Force, which will replace private security companies.
 Recruits for the Afghan Protection Force received classroom instruction on Saturday in Kabul. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRYAN DENTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); CONTRACTS LAW (76%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); LAWYERS (73%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (71%); ARMED FORCES (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



409 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Paying on Time

BYLINE: By VICKIE ELMER

 BODY:
FEWER homeowners have been falling behind on their mortgage payments over the last two years, yet even with the improvement, a significant number still are delinquent or in foreclosure.
Being in such a predicament almost always proves costly for borrowers -- both in terms of fees they will owe and the lower credit rating that will result.
Mortgage delinquencies are ''about halfway back to long-term prerecession levels,'' said Jay Brinkmann, the chief economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association, in its fourth-quarter delinquency report, which was released last month. Some 7.58 percent of all residential loans were delinquent at the end of 2011, down from a 10 percent high in 2010 but well above the 5 percent prerecession average. All together, 12.63 percent -- one in eight homeowners -- were in trouble or in foreclosure at the end of the year, the association reported. 
Meanwhile a separate report last month, from the credit-reporting agency TransUnion, found that delinquency rates fell to 6.01 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011 from 6.4 percent the same period the year before, though they rose slightly from the third quarter. Delinquencies of 60 days or more are expected to rise again in the first quarter of 2012, then decline the rest of the year, said David Blumberg, a TransUnion spokesman.
With so many homeowners still pinched financially, it is crucial to understand and adhere to payment deadlines. In general, payments are due on the first of the month; many lenders, though, allow a 15-day grace period. That means ''not written by, not posted by, but received by the servicer'' on that day, said Michael McHugh, the president of Continental Home Loans in Melville, N.Y., and the president of the Empire State Mortgage Bankers Association. In scheduling automatic electronic payments, he advised, allow at least ''five days' leeway.''
If the payment arrives even a day past the grace period, your lender will very likely charge a late fee of 2 to 5 percent of the monthly payment, Mr. McHugh said. The late fee and timing are spelled out in mortgage documents. Some late fees may be waived, especially if you have a history of on-time payment.
What is less often waived is the nick to the credit score. At 30 days tardy, a lender sends the credit bureaus a report, which is immediately transferred to your credit report, said Rod Griffin, the director of consumer and public education at Experian, another credit-reporting bureau. The black mark stays on the books seven years, he said, unless successfully challenged.
''That late payment on a mortgage is going to have a significant negative effect on your credit score,'' Mr. Griffin said.
Research last year by FICO, the provider of one of the most popular credit scores used by lenders, showed a 60- to 110-point drop in scores for being 30 days late, with the biggest reduction to those with the highest starting score of 780. It could take nine months to three years for the FICO score to recover fully, the research indicated.
VantageScore, a rival to FICO, estimates that the initial hit would be 60 to 100 points at 30 days delinquent and another 10 to 20 points at 60 days.
The key, the experts say, is to pay up before you are 30 days behind -- or, failing that, to keep the payments no more than 120 days delinquent to avoid foreclosure proceedings and many extra costs, they say. ''If they can stay between 90 and 120 days' delinquency,'' said Carol Yopp, the manager of the foreclosure program at the Long Island Housing Partnership, ''they typically don't get referred for foreclosure.''
Ms. Yopp, who also has 16 years' experience as a mortgage underwriter, notes that many lenders will not take partial payments on mortgages; they will hold them in a ''suspend account'' until the borrower has the full amount. Still, she suggested homeowners make a partial payment anyway, so they're not tempted to use the earmarked funds elsewhere.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES:1 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (73%); ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES (63%)

COMPANY: FAIR ISAAC CORP (FICO) (58%)

TICKER: FICO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (58%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



410 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: Elizabeth Tegins, Thad Sharp

 BODY:
Dr. Elizabeth Eileen O'Toole Tegins and Thad Tyson Sharp were married Saturday at the Ballinahinch Church in Ballinahinch, Ireland. The Rev. Patrick Burke, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony. 
The bride, 34, will continue to use her name professionally. She is a chief resident in ophthalmology at the Krieger Eye Institute at Sinai Hospital in Baltimore. She graduated from Boston College and received a medical degree from the State University of New York Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn.
She is the daughter of Eileen O'Toole Tegins and John Maurice Tegins of Great River, N.Y. The bride's father retired as an electrical engineer from AIL Systems, a military equipment contractor that was in Deer Park, N.Y. He is now an independent environmental cleanup consultant, in Great River. Her mother retired as a fifth-grade teacher from Malverne Middle School in Malverne, N.Y.
The bridegroom, 33, is a senior scientist for Novartis, the Swiss pharmaceutical company, and works in Cambridge, Mass. He conducts molecular biological research intended to connect cancer patients with the most helpful drugs. He graduated from the University of Southern Mississippi and received a master's in bioscience regulatory affairs from Johns Hopkins.
He is a son of Sue Humphries Sharp and Mervyn D. Sharp of Hattiesburg, Miss. The bridegroom's mother retired as an associate professor of home economics from the University of Southern Mississippi.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY EILEEN SHIELDS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); RELIGION (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); ENGINEERING (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); RIVERS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (68%); CANCER (67%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (54%)

COMPANY: NOVARTIS AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN MISSISSIPPI (83%); BOSTON COLLEGE (57%)

TICKER: NVS (NYSE) (56%); NOVN (SWX) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); HATTIESBURG, MS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (71%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



411 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; GRAY MATTER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Beyond 'Broken Windows'

BYLINE: By PETER H. SCHUCK. 
Peter H. Schuck, a professor of law at Yale and a visiting professor at Fordham, is a co-editor, with James Q. Wilson, of ''Understanding America: The Anatomy of an Exceptional Nation.''

 BODY:
JAMES Q. WILSON, who died last week at the age of 80, was unquestionably the pre-eminent political scientist of the last 50 years. Curiously, the commentary surrounding his death has largely focused on his justly famous ''broken windows'' theory -- and to a lesser extent, his penetrating 1993 book, ''The Moral Sense'' -- yet these works are only a small part of his extraordinary contribution to sound thinking about government, politics and public policy.
Even more important, perhaps, are his groundbreaking analyses -- first elucidated when he was just 30 -- of the most fundamental features of political behavior, whether by parties, bureaucracies, regulatory agencies or other organizations. 
Unlike his work on law enforcement and other specific policies, these analyses are structural; they apply, other things being equal, to all public policies and all political acts. Just as a powerful microscope illuminates the biological world, Mr. Wilson's writings provide enormous insight into how the political world works.
In the field of social science, where good theories generating important testable predictions are exceptionally rare, no one else has come close to matching his achievements.
In this work, Mr. Wilson showed that all organizations -- political parties, social clubs, environmental groups, companies and regulatory agencies -- share one essential trait: They must attract the resources necessary to achieve their goals and survive (he called this ''organizational maintenance'') by offering incentives or inducements to join and support them.
He distinguished three types of incentives -- solidary (that is, incentives that promote solidarity), material and purposive -- and he theorized that the specific type of incentive distributed by a particular group both shapes and constrains its behavior and effectiveness.
Thus, the Junior League provides solidary incentives by emphasizing the social status of and personal interactions among its members, while companies provide material incentives -- i.e., money and other economic value -- which buy them more tactical flexibility.
In contrast, the Sierra Club's incentives are purposive, attracting members through its programmatic and visionary ideals. But such incentives also constrain purposive groups, which may lose support if they compromise those ideals by being too pragmatic.
In two early books, Mr. Wilson deployed this theory, along with intensive fieldwork, to show how such incentives help explain -- and predict -- the behavior of diverse political organizations.
In his 1960 book, ''Negro Politics,'' he compared two diverse styles of politics of the most prominent black congressmen of the day, William Dawson and Adam Clayton Powell Jr.
Mr. Dawson, loyal to Chicago Mayor Richard J. Daley, was a classic machine politician who attracted low-income voters by distributing material favors controlled by the machine -- jobs, connections, economic benefits -- while assiduously avoiding more controversial, policy-oriented appeals that might divide his constituency and displease ideologically diverse colleagues.
Mr. Powell, from New York City, was the exact opposite: a flamboyant firebrand, he often played the race card to win re-election but was isolated in Congress and accomplished little programmatically.
Mr. Wilson's analysis of the relationship between different organizational-political styles and outcomes helps explain, among other things, the challenges that minority politicians everywhere face today.
Two years later, in ''The Amateur Democrat,'' Mr. Wilson compared the disparate organizational strategies of Democratic political clubs in Los Angeles, New York and Chicago. The Chicago clubs were essentially cogs in Mayor Daley's materialistic machine. The New York clubs were divided between organizational regulars and insurgent reformers -- groups driven (and riven) by different incentive systems in a city whose politics, unlike Chicago's, could not centralize power enough to control policy outcomes.
The political style of the Los Angeles clubs was the most striking, as it prefigured a new kind of politics that has largely defined the Democratic Party ever since: it elevated the intra-party influence of ''amateurs'' over professional politicians, demanded ethnic and gender balance in internal party affairs, mistrusted central leadership and (until recently) avoided broad coalition building with business interests. This more ideological, protest-type mode (so evident in today's Republican Party as well) made it very difficult for them to unify and aggregate the power needed to govern effectively in a decentralized political system like ours.
Mr. Wilson later extended these theories to bureaucracy and regulation. In his 1989 work, ''Bureaucracy,'' he drew on numerous examples to show how bureaucracy is not one thing but many things, and that different agencies must deploy different incentive and task structures, which in turn explain a great deal of how they work, including how they define and pursue their goals, bargain with other groups, recruit expertise and often fail.
Likewise, in his 1980 book, ''The Politics of Regulation,'' he developed a new political taxonomy of regulation linked to a theory of how regulators build political support and manage their organizational constraints. This was more than a theory; he used it to predict, with stunning accuracy, how agencies would act in different situations.
Most impressive, however, is how Mr. Wilson succeeded in using these rigorously academic approaches to educate mass audiences, putting him in a small pantheon of public intellectuals with his friends Daniel Patrick Moynihan and Irving Kristol. In today's fraught times, we need his wisdom more than ever.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James Q. Wilson, pictured here in 1972, put forth groundbreaking analyses of political behavior. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (65%) ILLINOIS, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



412 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Including More in All-Inclusives

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
MENTION the words ''all-inclusive resort'' and thoughts of bad buffets, watered-down drinks and wristband-wearing guests doing the conga may come to mind. But all-inclusive resorts, which have traditionally included basic accommodations and meals, are reinventing themselves with chic rooms, sophisticated restaurants, butlers and activities all wrapped into one price.
Many hotel brands are also offering all-inclusive options for travelers who want to know exactly what their vacation will cost. For example, the Fairmont Mayakoba, an upscale resort just south of Cancun, recently introduced its first inclusive meal plan with the ''appetite for luxury package,'' which starts at $499 a night, per couple, and covers the room, two children five years or younger, bike rentals and unlimited food and beverages.
In the last year, at least two Starwood resorts, the Westin Resort & Spa, Playa Conchal in Costa Rica and the Sheraton Bijao Beach Resort in Panama, have gone completely all-inclusive with meals, accommodations and children's club all covered under one price -- a first for the company. The pricing direction was largely ''a response to demand for more vacation packages from our customers,'' said Trip Barrett, a vice-president for Starwood's Latin America properties. 
The new breed of all-inclusive resorts can be particularly attractive to travelers looking for one-sum vacations in these uncertain economic times. ''There's a psychological effect here,'' said Scott D. Berman, head of the hospitality and leisure division at PricewaterhouseCoopers, ''to know your vacation is already paid for and you're not going to be opening your wallet every five minutes a la carte.''
But travelers need to do their research. While most all-inclusive resort offerings are covered in the price, expect to pay extra for special services and amenities like spa treatments, premium drinks and late-night baby-sitting. And while practically every place claims to have something for everyone, you can still end up feeling out of place if your travel style clashes with other guests. ''I've been to several cheap all-inclusives that cater to 'everyone' -- not just families -- and I can't count the number of inebriated pool-goers, partying-all-night-in-the-room neighbors and lap-dancing waitresses I have encountered,'' Kyle McCarthy, editor at FamilyTravelForum.com, wrote in an e-mail.
To help you figure out if an all-inclusive might be right for you, here is a sampling of new or recently redone resorts that go beyond the usual buffet spreads and bland accommodations.
FOR FAMILIES
Club Med Sandpiper Bay, Port St. Lucie, Fla.
Standout Features Thirty new rooms designed for families with two bedrooms and one and a half baths, a children's art studio created with the Pop artist Romero Britto and a Le Petit Sports program, which introduces young children to sports through storytelling and games on pint-size tennis and golf courses.
Beyond the Basics In addition to the usual meals and water sports, you get children's programs for ages 4 months to 17 years, including a ''baby restaurant'' and teenagers' hangout.
What's Not Included Evening child care; spa treatments at the Club Med Spa by L'Occitane; excursions like airboat rides on Lake Okeechobe.
Cost From $1,064 a person a week to $2,135 a person a week. Children (2 to 16) pay half rate.
FOR THE SPA-OBSESSED
The BodyHoliday, Saint Lucia
Standout Features A recently renovated skin-care clinic, featuring Thalgo products and a couple's treatment room, and a newly expanded water-sports center, which offers water-skiing, sailing, tubing, snorkeling and windsurfing. There is also a dive shop with a training center.
Beyond the Basics A daily 50-minute spa treatment, farm-to-table meals, fitness classes and wellness and weight-loss programs ranging from archery to ''cellulite flushing.''
What's Not Included Premium drinks, restaurant specials, scuba diving sessions, specialty spa treatments and appointments on day of arrival or departure and off-site adventures like mountain biking.
Cost From $450 a person a night.
FOR PARTIERS
ME Cancun, Mexico
Standout Features Five restaurants, seven bars, including the refurbished Rose Bar, which features Bali beds (day beds with white linen roof coverings) and misting fans, and the Beach Club, with an Infinity pool and D.J. jam sessions. The resort, which became an all-inclusive property last year, hosted the MTV series ''Real World'' in 2009 and features the Real World Suite with a pool table and removable stripper pole. A corner of the resort was recently designated the Chill Out Zone, a music-free area with large daybeds for guests who simply want to relax.
Beyond the Basics Live D.J. performances are held each weekend. This spring, popular D.J.'s will periodically host day and night pool parties and D.J. Labs for guests who want to learn the art of spinning.
What's Not Included Premium coffee and most premium liquors; private beach dinners; beachside Bali beds; off-property excursions like visits to nearby archaeological sites; and with few exceptions (guests staying in suites get a treatment) the spa, which features a coed hydrotherapy zone with whirlpools and showers that shoot water from various angles.
Cost From $298 a night for two people.
FOR ECO-MINDED FAMILIES
Sandos Caracol Eco-Resort & Spa, Playa del Carmen, Mexico
Standout Features Last year the resort overhauled most guest rooms, installing water recycling systems, solar water heating, low-energy air-conditioning, and wooden furniture made from forests certified as responsibly harvested. A water park with 17 slides uses rain capture and filtration systems to help conserve water.
Beyond the Basics From May to October guests can participate in a sea-turtle release program. There is also an on-site freshwater swimming hole, mangrove swamps and Mayan ruins to explore just steps from the resort.
What's Not Included Spa treatments, scuba diving, premium liquor, and off-site excursions like deep-sea fishing.
Cost From $188 a night for two people sharing a room, including all taxes, fees and tips.
FOR COUPLES
Sandals Emerald Bay, Great Exuma, Bahamas
Standout Features After a multimillion dollar renovation in 2010, this property -- which was formerly a Four Seasons -- offers a milelong private cove beach, seven a la carte restaurants, an 18-hole Greg Norman championship golf course and a 17-acre marina in case you want to bring your yacht.
Beyond the Basics Seaside villas come with private butlers.
What's Not Included Treatments at the 29,000-square-foot spa, private cabanas, off-site excursions, greens fees and marina slips.
Cost From $770 a person a night.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BRETT AFFRUNTI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (93%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); FAMILY (88%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); TOUR PACKAGES (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); HOTEL AMENITIES (77%); TOUR OPERATORS (76%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (76%); LUXURY GOODS (75%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (68%); BEACHES (68%)

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (54%); CLUB MEDITERRANEE SA (50%)

TICKER: CU (PAR) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (54%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (50%); NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (50%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (50%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); MEXICO (77%); LATIN AMERICA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



413 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: Ordinary Income Vs. Capital Gains

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Capital Gains, Ordinary Income and Shades of Gray'' (Economic View, March 4), in which N. Gregory Mankiw described five situations that together show the complexity of distinguishing between types of income: 
To me, the examples show why it is foolish to try to fix the tax system through changes in the current law: the fact that different ways of gaining wealth are taxed differently means that human ingenuity will always find a way to avoid being taxed as intended.
If we didn't tax income, but instead simply taxed all net wealth in equal proportion, there would be no need for complicated accounting analyses. More importantly, the system would be fair to everyone.
Charles Freifeld
Brookline, Mass., March 4
The writer is president of AlphaMetrics Capital Management.
To the Editor:
The column illustrated the gradations between capital gains and ordinary income in similar transactions, concluding that some of it may seem unfair but adding that ''not all problems have easy answers.''
In fact, this problem is of our own making and has a very easy answer. There is no fair reason why income based on using one's capital should be taxed at lower rates than income based on using one's labor. Eliminate the preferential treatment of capital gains, lower the general tax brackets to make this change revenue-neutral and -- voila! -- problem solved. A related ''unfair'' example is in I.R.A.'s, where capital gains are taxed as ordinary income when withdrawn.
The only remaining issue would then be what to do with the legions of lawyers and accountants who earn a living finding ways to reduce taxes by converting one kind of income to another. Zvi J. Doron
Pittsburgh, March 4

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); WRITERS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



414 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 836 words

PERSON: James Trager 

HEADLINE: James Trager Is Dead at 86; Brought Facts to the Masses

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
In 1898, as history students learn, the battleship Maine blew up in Havana's harbor, but that was also the year the Bayer Company offered a new opiate cough medicine called Heroin, and the year the Kellogg brothers introduced cornflakes, which were so unpopular at first they grew stale on grocers' shelves.
Thank James Trager for making these historical nuggets readily available to the reading public. They're part of his 1,206-page book ''The People's Chronology: A Year-by-Year Record of Human Events from Prehistory to the Present,'' published in 1979. For each year he discussed, he divided events into categories like literature, crime and everyday life. 
Mr. Trager, an advertising writer turned encyclopedist, repeated the method in ''The Women's Chronology'' (1994), ''The Food Chronology (1995) and ''The New York Chronology'' (2004).
The women's book pointed out that in 1920, not only did women get the right to vote in the United States; they also, for the first time, were hired as bus conductors in Tokyo. The food book noted that 1633 was important as the year the physician James Hart's volume ''Klinike'' was published, alerting the world to the risks of sugar.
The New York compilation began in 1524 with Giovanni da Verrazano sailing into what became New York Harbor and continued to the closing in 2002 of Ratner's, on Delancey Street, ''after 97 years of serving blintzes, kasha, latkes and matzo brei.''
Obscure, intriguing facts seemed irresistible to Mr. Trager, who died on Wednesday in Manhattan at 86. He had a number of ailments that culminated in pneumonia in his last days, his son Oliver said.
Mr. Trager aspired to more than simple lists. He wrote that knowledge grows incrementally, that one advance leads to another, and that the impact of an event is often not recognized until many years later.
Little attention was paid in 1930, for example, when a young Aristotle Onassis bought six freighters for a knockdown price of $20,000 each, seeding what would become a shipping empire. When the teddy bear and brassiere were both introduced to the United States in 1902 -- by Mr. Trager's dating -- no one could have forseen what lay in store.
The Trager reference books sold solidly and found homes in libraries and newsrooms. Robert Kirsch, writing in The Los Angeles Times, said he plowed through the ''People's'' encyclopedia to the end. Cindy Adams, the New York Post columnist, called the New York book ''as smart and know-it-all as New York itself.'' (A revised edition of ''The People's Chronology'' came out in 1993.)
Mr. Trager had honed his skill at ferreting out historical details in two earlier books, both on food. In ''The Enriched, Fortified, Concentrated, Country-Fresh, Lip-Smacking, Finger-Licking International, Unexpurgated FOODBOOK,'' published in 1970, he wrote that it was Genghis Khan who introduced sauerkraut to Europe (an assertion repeated in other reference books).
Two years later ''The Big, Fertile, Rumbling, Cast-Iron, Growling, Aching, Unbuttoned Bellybook'' addressed nutrition issues with some skepticism, questioning, for example, the health advantages of organic food, which he dismissed as a fad of the rich.
James Garfield Trager was born on May 27, 1925, in White Plains and grew up in Scarsdale, N.Y. He attended Harvard, where he was an editor on The Crimson, majored in history and graduated in 1946. He worked in marketing research, then advertising. He wrote ads for Canadian Club whisky that centered on adventurous trips -- shark-fishing, say -- that screamed out for a libation afterward.
For his chronologies, Mr. Trager bought an early-generation computer in 1975 -- paying $10,000 -- to organize his material. Microsoft later purchased the rights to ''The People's Chronology'' and offered it on a CD as part of a reference-book package.
He wrote 10 books, including ''Letters From Sachiko: A Japanese Woman's View of Life in the Land of the Economic Miracle'' (1982), which was critically praised for its portrayal of contemporary Japanese life. The book was partly inspired by the experience of Mr. Trager's second wife, Chie Nishio, herself Japanese.
Mr. Trager's first marriage, to Olivia A. Hirsch, ended in divorce in 1967. In addition to his son Oliver, he is survived by his wife; his daughter, Amanda Trager; another son, James; and three grandchildren.
For all his attention to dates in ''The People's Chronology,'' Mr. Trager could not, of course, tell readers when everything started. He did report, however, what others have established as the year of creation: the Eastern Orthodox Church, 5508 B.C.; the early Syrian Christians, 5490 B.C.; the 17th-century theologian James Ussher, 4004 B.C.; the Hebrew calendar, 3760 B.C., and the Mayan calendar, 3641 B.C.
But the book's starting point takes the reader back even further, to 3 million B.C., when, Mr. Trager wrote, drawing on fossil evidence, an upright, tool-using human ancestor was around and about.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James Trager (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIE NISHIO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); CHRONOLOGIES (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); HISTORY (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); HEROIN (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (68%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (55%)

CATEGORY: News and News Media

TITLE: People's Chronology, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



415 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2015 words

HEADLINE: The Top Man At 'Mad Men' Isn't Mad Anymore

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES
THERE is an almost Sisyphean sensation that comes from navigating the network of hallways, elevators and escalators at the Los Angeles Center Studios here that lead at last to the dimly lighted office of Matthew Weiner and asking him, point blank, what he plans for the new season of ''Mad Men.'' It is a futile feeling because, as any true acolyte knows, he is not going to give a straight answer to the question.
Even at this stage in the life cycle of his award-winning, television-landscape-reshaping period drama, Mr. Weiner -- no mythological figure, just a grinning, 46-year-old mortal in a fleece pullover on a cool California morning -- is too protective of his property to give up what he considers spoilers, which is essentially any information about the show at all.
And even though an excruciating 17-month hiatus will have elapsed between the last new ''Mad Men'' episode and its fifth-season premiere, scheduled for March 25 on AMC, Mr. Weiner, creator, lead producer and animating force, will not disclose any concrete details about the roguish 1960s advertising executive Don Draper (played by Jon Hamm) and his coterie of frustrated strivers and failed monogamists, or even the year in which the new season is set. 
What he will share is a single piece of dialogue: ''There's a line in Episode 3,'' Mr. Weiner said, ''where somebody goes, 'When is everything going to get back to normal?' And who hasn't felt that right at this minute?''
Forget the drunkenly pitched cereal campaigns and ambiguous plans for abortions that have become signature details of ''Mad Men.'' ''It's always about change,'' Mr. Weiner said, ''and I'm starting to realize that that's all I'm writing about. And I think it's because we are living in a time of tremendous change, and you can't pretend anymore.''
By this Mr. Weiner means the months of seismic economic, political and social shifts that the world has undergone while ''Mad Men'' was off the air. But he could just as easily be referring to a personal experience, during that same time, when he believed he had walked away from his hit television series.
''I quit,'' Mr. Weiner said, his customary smile disappearing. ''I had come to terms with the fact that it was over.''
It was one year ago that Mr. Weiner's contract renegotiations with AMC and Lionsgate, the studio that produces ''Mad Men,'' turned bruising and spilled into the press, stoking fears that the series -- which has won the Emmy Award for best dramatic series four years in a row -- might never return or, perhaps worse, return without Mr. Weiner.
He said he was resisting efforts to push the show's premiere into 2012, and to reduce the cast size and running time to cut costs. ''We got this far this way,'' he said. ''Why would you change the brand? It reeked of New Coke to me.''
At his most frustrated Mr. Weiner told his family and his representatives he was done with the show, and called Mr. Hamm to say he was sorry he could not work things out.
As Mr. Hamm recalled, ''My advice to him was, 'It's your creation, so it's yours to deal with however you want.'' He added another suggestion: ''Put down your phone and don't answer it for a few days and see what happens.''
Mr. Weiner said: ''And then they compromised, and I compromised. A little.'' He did not win his battle for a 2011 premiere, but his cast and running time remained intact, and a deal was struck to keep him at the show through a seventh season, when it will come to an end.
Mr. Hamm said of the negotiations: ''It's like talking to your parents. Sometimes words are said, and then you go back and go, 'But I still love you.' ''
AMC, which said the scheduling shift is a vote of confidence for ''Mad Men'' and provided a ratings boost to ''Breaking Bad,'' which was given the summer 2011 premiere slot, said it did not know of Mr. Weiner's decision to step away from the bargaining table.
''That is really sad, and I'm thrilled it didn't come to that,'' said Charlie Collier, the AMC president and general manager, who said his network had only two negotiating goals: ''We want the show to come to a conclusion on AMC, and we want Matt to be at the helm.''
Kevin Beggs, the president of Lionsgate Television Group, said he was also unaware of Mr. Weiner's temporary withdrawal but understood his mind-set.
''We certainly have heard many times that if certain things don't go the way they need to, it might influence Matt's thinking about staying with the show,'' Mr. Beggs said.
He added: ''Matt's so 100 percent emotionally and creatively committed to this enterprise. This is not just a piece of business for him. This is a career-defining magnum opus.''
Mr. Weiner said he cannot ''exaggerate how wonderful'' his working relationships have been since his deal -- with a reported $30 million salary over three years -- was concluded. (He said the figure was not what he had asked for, adding: ''My salary was revealed to embarrass me, and there's no one on the nonartistic side who's salary is being revealed.'')
And while he is surely someone used to getting his way, he has also seen his convictions validated time and again, taking an underrated team of talents and an overlooked cable channel along on his ascent. ''Mad Men'' may not be the most popular show on AMC, in raw numbers -- it drew less than three million viewers for new episodes last season, compared to the six million or seven million tuning in each week for ''The Walking Dead''; DVR viewings nearly double these numbers -- it is the most crucial to the network's brand, and the latitude Mr. Weiner enjoys reflects this.
Today he works from an office that is both a shrine to past decades and to ''Mad Men'' itself: his well-stocked bar once stood in the executive suite of Roger Sterling (John Slattery), and the ceramic chip-and-dip set of Pete and Trudy Campbell (Vincent Kartheiser and Alison Brie) -- an actual wedding present to Mr. Weiner's parents -- sits on a shelf. His walls are decorated with vintage print advertisements and a thank-you letter sent to supporters by Richard M. Nixon when he lost the 1960 presidential election (a gift from the director Judd Apatow).
As befits a writer who labored on network comedies like ''Becker'' and ''The Naked Truth,'' Mr. Weiner can be effortlessly funny, but he can turn abruptly serious and imperious, especially where his show is concerned.
Describing the process that results in the writing of a new ''Mad Men'' season, Mr. Weiner said: ''There's about a three-week rumination period, which involves a lot of napping, a lot of holding books. Whether I'm reading them or not, I cannot say.''
This period, about 8 to 12 weeks before filming starts, also finds Mr. Weiner ruminating on his own life, talking with series consultants like Bob Levinson, a veteran ad man of the '60s, and contemplating the real-life history that might have an impact on characters like Draper and his ex-wife, Betty (January Jones).
''The thing I always have to remember is: Don't assume that because you're living in tumultuous times, people are not also living their lives,'' Mr. Weiner said.
Then he gathers his writers, who are each assigned to bring in 10 story ideas; Mr. Weiner acknowledged that he shoots down many of these pitches. From what survives, an outline is generated, a script is assigned, and when it comes in from his writers, Mr. Weiner rewrites it. A lot.
''If I change less than 80 percent of it,'' he said, ''I will leave their name on it by themselves. Now it's unfair on some level because I'm deciding what I change.''
On the other hand, Mr. Weiner said: ''I would never want my name on something that I did not write most of. Part of television is you get rewritten.''
That was Mr. Weiner's experience at ''The Sopranos,'' where he was hired on the strength of the unproduced pilot script of ''Mad Men.'' David Chase, the creator and show runner of ''The Sopranos,'' operated in a way that was similarly unilateral and teeming with rejection.
Recalling Mr. Weiner's tenure there, Mr. Chase said: ''I would say to him constantly: 'Well, no, not really. No. No. No. No, that doesn't work for me. No.' But that didn't stop him. He would still come up with story ideas. He realized that was his job.'' With other writers, Mr. Chase said, ''once they hear no enough times, they stop coming forward.''
Writers on ''Mad Men'' understand that their role, ultimately, is to support Mr. Weiner's vision, and they describe him as open and fair minded.
''You can state your case and your reasons why,'' said Maria Jacquemetton, who, with her husband and writing partner, Andre, is among Mr. Weiner's most trusted ''Mad Men'' colleagues. ''He may say no to it, but he, more times than not, will say no and think it over, and then either say no again or say, 'Well, I thought it over, and it might work.' ''
''Although,'' Mr. Jacquemetton noted, ''it gets pretty scary when the room falls silent.''
In some ways, Mr. Weiner suggested, the new season of ''Mad Men'' will not differ greatly from its predecessors. ''It's not 'Finnegans Wake.' There's people, they're in costumes, they're kissing, they're arguing.'' The story line will still closely track Draper, who concluded last season with a shocking marriage proposal to his secretary, Megan (Jessica Pare).
''We don't know if, in fact, they are married,'' Mr. Hamm said. ''A lot can happen between here and there.''
A lot has happened in the show's year-and-a-half absence that the ''Mad Men'' staff cannot control: serialized dramas like ''Homeland'' (on Showtime) and ''Downton Abbey'' (PBS) have emerged as competitors for industry plaudits and fan adoration.
And, beginning with the ''Mad Men'' renegotiation, AMC suffered an annus horribilis in which its most popular shows -- ''Breaking Bad,''''The Killing'' and ''The Walking Dead'' -- experienced behind-the-scenes drama or critical backlashes -- developments that Mr. Weiner followed like a sports fan watching his favorite team struggle through the playoffs. ''They went from being the third-choice, second-run movie channel to a competitor with HBO,'' he said of AMC. ''That's what I live for. But there are growing pains.''
Above all Mr. Weiner seemed most concerned that ''Mad Men'' simply isn't a new show anymore -- reason alone for loyalties to wander, and a problem that could be compounded by the many months the series has been missing.
As restitution Mr. Weiner said he could offer only a new season that he hopes is as strong as he's ever done, and a premiere that is two hours long. ''Here is a double helping,'' he said. ''Stuff yourself.,''
There is also the larger question of how Mr. Weiner will bring to a close a series that aspires to tell the story of the 1960s in roughly 91 hours. Not that he is promising any hints of his grand conclusion in the latest batch of episodes.
''I did not say, 'Oh, I've got three more seasons, I'm going to plot them out right now,' '' he said. ''I do not have the ability to do that. I took everything I could possibly think of and did it this year.''
Mr. Chase, who wrestled with a comparable predicament on ''The Sopranos,'' said there was not much insight he could offer into the process except to say that a series finale is a highly personal and subjective decision for any show runner.
''It's just very difficult to end a series,'' he said. ''For example, 'Seinfeld,' they ended it with them all going to jail. Now that's the ending we should have had. And they should have had ours, where it blacked out in a diner.''
Mr. Weiner said he already has in his mind an image for the end of ''Mad Men,'' just as he comes into each new season already knowing how he wants to finish it. But he isn't sharing that visual with anyone. ''I hope that in hindsight it will look like it was all planned out,'' he said.
The only clue Mr. Weiner would offer now was his remembrance of how he first pitched ''Mad Men'' to AMC, promising a series that would tell the story of how a decade changed people's lives.
''After the finale,'' he said, ''you will look back on them and say, 'Look how young they were.' And you will look back with nostalgia.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Three of the men of Sterling Cooper Draper Pryce, from left, John Slattery, Jon Hamm and Vincent Kartheiser on AMC's ''Mad Men.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANK OCKENFELS/AMC)(AR1)
Above, Matthew Weiner accepting an Emmy last year
right, Mr. Weiner on the set with Jon Hamm
below, Mr. Hamm and Christina Hendricks in the new season. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARIO ANZUONI/REUTERS
JORDIN ALTHAUS/AMC)
Left, Mr. Weiner in his office at the Los Angeles Center Studios, and, below, January Jones in Season 2. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IRIS SCHNEIDER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CARIN BAER/AMC)(AR14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION DRAMAS (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Mad Men (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



416 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Cameras and Tears for New Star Of Los Angeles: 340-Ton Rock

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- It was 4:35 a.m. on Saturday when the block-long transporter carrying a 340-ton, 21-foot-high boulder wrapped in white plastic pulled up in front of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art.
More than 1,000 people, kept on the sidewalk by a squadron of police officers, responded with applause and a burst of camera flashes. 
But as the 196-wheel transporter idled there under huge spotlights befitting a city known for its star-gazing, the crowd poured off the sidewalk and moved toward the boulder that will soon be the latest addition to the museum's art collection. They touched the rock, marveled at its size, posed for photographs and congratulated the workers who had overseen the complicated task of transporting a rock-turned-art from a quarry 60 miles away.
''As far as I'm concerned, it's like the Pyramids,'' said Sandy Martin, a retired television producer, who had waited nearly three hours for this moment on a warm night drenched in moonlight. ''We'll never see this again in our lifetimes. I cried when I first saw it.''
It took seven months longer than originally planned and followed a circuitous route through four counties and 22 cities. The journey lasted 11 days -- the convoy traveled only between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. -- and drew on the services of hundreds of drivers, police officers, utility workers and construction workers. Its approach was heralded by a dazzling flash of red, blue and yellow lights, and crews that leapfrogged ahead to lift power lines and turn aside traffic lights.
But, finally, before the first light of the morning, the rock that will be known as ''Levitated Mass'' came down Wilshire Boulevard -- people running alongside as if it were the bulls of Pamplona -- before making its last two elongated turns and coming to rest in an open lot behind the museum. In the next month, the work, by Michael Heizer, a California sculptor, will be placed over a cut trench and then opened to the public.
Tom LaBonge, a Los Angeles City Council member, turned to the museum director, Michael Govan, and patted him on the arm. ''Good job,'' he said.
Mr. LaBonge said the installation was worth the considerable effort and expense that have raised some eyebrows at a time of such austerity. ''Look around you, look how this brings out people,'' he said. ''This will be a big magnet here at L.A.C.M.A.''
The scene on Miracle Mile was reminiscent of the excited and diverse crowd that has come out at night to watch the convoy as it zigged and zagged through the region. There were cameras, baby strollers, folding chairs, politicians and other people of every race and economic class. There was also a surfeit of rock puns: Someone was even playing ''We Will Rock You'' as the truck passed La Brea Tar Pits.
In Long Beach the other night, people lined the streets and waited for hours to be rewarded by what Alexis Dragony praised as the ''extraordinary and flawless maneuver of the rock'' making a turn. ''We cheered as it negotiated the corner,'' she said. ''It was truly performance art.''
Los Angeles is not a particularly late-night city, and people who made it there at 4:30 in the morning either found a new use for disco naps or stayed up all night. Mr. LaBonge said he had set his alarm clock for 2:30 and woke up with a start, fearful that he had missed the moment. He had not.
Jeff Miller, 32, went to a Guns N' Roses show at the Hollywood Palladium that lasted, he reported, until close to 3 a.m. After that, he figured he would just make a night of it and headed over to the museum.
More than a few people talked about multiple excursions to see the boulder, which became easier as museum officials, constantly adjusting to changing regulations and bureaucracies, shifted and lengthened the route. By the end, the convoy had traveled on 100 miles of road to cover 60 miles of distance, to accommodate a route with roads wide enough and strong enough to carry the load.
In any event, this did not appear to disrupt the routines of people who were accustomed to late nights. ''Hey, let's go get some waffles, man,'' one man said after his close-up inspection of the boulder.
Not that there were no problems. At least two palm trees had to be cut down at the last minute because they prevented the truck from turning. Mr. Govan said they would be replaced with ''fast-growing'' Washingtonia palms. And the final leg of the journey was held up a bit because of cars parked on Wilshire Boulevard. They were towed.
But none of this distracted from the weird awe of the early-morning spectacle. ''There must be 1,000 people here,'' said Alex Rose, 32, who had driven over from Venice. ''I've been really fixated by this, that something like this can get so many people out here.''
Mr. Miller, who stayed up all night, said he had rarely witnessed events like this here. ''I grew up in L.A.,'' he said. ''I love it when a moment like this comes along that brings us together. When you get an event like this in L.A., it can make this city seem small. And that's really cool.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wrapped in plastic, the boulder turned artwork, ''Levitated Mass,'' neared its destination, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, on Saturday. Below left, crowds in La Mirada viewed the journey, and a museum representative handed out pamphlets in Lakewood. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); SCULPTURE (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CITIES (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



417 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Lingerie and Enlightenment

BYLINE: By JACALYN E.S. BENNETT. 
As told to Perry Garfinkel.

 BODY:
ON my father's side of the family were several generations of respected New York lawyers and judges. My maternal grandmother married the deacon of the Flatbush Dutch Reformed Church in Prospect Park in Brooklyn. Eventually, the borough took some of their family land by eminent domain to develop the Brooklyn Botanic Garden.
My mother was a former fashion model and a perfectionist. She dressed me impeccably: dainty little dresses, white gloves and Mary Janes. She started my modeling career when I was 5. I won many beauty contests and had modeling jobs, but I hated it. I didn't want to be evaluated for how I looked. I wanted to be in school; I loved increasing my knowledge. 
My father exposed me to all kinds of people, cultures and religions, teaching me that we all should be treated as equals.
My sister Elizabeth, a gifted artist nine years older than me, gave me the road map to self-support, creative expression and financial freedom. From the moment I could lift a pencil, she taught me how to draw. Eventually, I became her apprentice and she started paying me.
At the High School of Art and Design in Manhattan, I immersed myself in sewing, weaving, drawing and fabric design. I recognized that cultures weave their history into the patterns of our lives through textile design.
When the 1960s ushered in European styles that weren't available in the United States, I began designing, sewing and selling garments to stores on East 53rd Street. By the time I was 15, I had saved enough money to move from my parents' home to my sister's apartment.
After graduating from the Fashion Institute of Technology, I was offered a job with India Imports. A week later, I was on the outskirts of Bombay, teaching village people how to draw, embroider and paint cotton shirts. The lesson came home very profoundly that a fashion trend decision in New York or Paris can affect the economy of an entire village that makes, for example, hand-blocked printed fabric. Because of that experience, I made a lifelong commitment to incorporate handwork into my own company's designs.
In the late 1970s, I had the good fortune of working for Martin Trust, president of Mast Industries. I worked on The Limited account with Verna Gibson, who was president and C.E.O. of the Limited Stores division of The Limited, which owned Mast. She taught me a great deal about being in the present moment -- even under stress.
In 1984, I founded my own company, GJM, and Victoria's Secret became my first client. Then, in 1989, when I decided I wanted to develop my own factories, I created Bennett & Company. Now we also design and manufacture items for Soma, Avon and many others.
The company's business model is based on teachings of Gandhi and principles of the Buddha. I've created what I call ''a company with a conscience.'' That means our 1,800 employees working in China and Sri Lanka and our team of 35 at our headquarters in Newburyport, Mass., treat everyone with the highest respect. We donate to more than 30 nonprofits, from Sarvodaya Suwasetha in Sri Lanka to the Insight Meditation Center of Newburyport.
Eastern philosophy also informs why I chose to specialize in lingerie. Lingerie is literally closest to a woman's heart. Though no one may see it, lingerie has a lingering influence on how we feel about ourselves during the day -- which I hope is special and cared for. When a woman is kind to herself from the inside, she projects that kindness out to others, which then is returned to her. This circle of kindness is at the core of the Buddha's teachings.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: JACALYN E.S. BENNETT: C.E.O. of Bennett & Company, a lingerie maker HOMETOWN: Brooklyn BEDSIDE READING
 ''Breath by Breath: The Liberating Practice of Insight Meditation,'' by Larry Rosenberg SAYING SHE LIVES BY: ''With our thoughts we make the world'' -- Buddha 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); FABRICS (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); EMINENT DOMAIN (78%); LAWYERS (78%); FASHION DESIGN (76%); TEXTILES (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); TRENDS (74%); JUDGES (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); RELIGION (72%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (71%); LINGERIE & HOSIERY STORES (69%)

COMPANY: MAST INDUSTRIES INC (51%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315210 CUT & SEW APPAREL CONTRACTORS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



418 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; TALK; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Peter Marino Likes Playing Bad Cop

BYLINE: By ANDREW GOLDMAN

 BODY:
You're one of the most-sought-after architects on the planet. You were brought up in Queens, but I can't quite place your accent. It sounds vaguely European. My parents spent a lot of money so I wouldn't sound like I came from Queens. I went to speech class.
To get rid of your accent? Or did you have a speech impediment? Both. 
A stammer? No. Move on.
You've been called the king of luxury for designing hundreds of stores for the likes of Chanel. You've done homes for billionaires like David Koch and Stephen Schwarzman. How do you feel about Occupy Wall Street? I kept wanting to be sympathetic, but when they interviewed the poor little things, their agenda was simply: ''We're going to protest!'' A Wall Streeter said to me: ''I'm so tired of hearing about a growing divide. If you've got one million dollars and the other person owes one million, the divide is going to grow.''
Andy Warhol gave you your big break -- you designed the third incarnation of his Factory and his town house on East 66th Street. What kind of client was he? Andy had, like, three expressions: ''Gee whiz,'' ''great'' or ''not at all.'' But he was quite clear about what he wanted. He was pretty tightfisted, because he had started with nothing and made every single penny himself. I remember when the estimates came in, he asked Philip Johnson, ''Philip, is this normal?'' And Philip said it was O.K.
You were once known for wearing Armani suits. Now your office has a large photo of you in full chain-mail armor. Motorcycle garb is the way I looked to Warhol. Then came the Armani suits. Andy said: ''Look at you! What did you do?'' I said: ''I've had Giorgio Armani as a client for eight years, and I got a great number of gorgeous free suits. Hello!'' After I finished with Armani, I said: ''I've got to get rid of my duds. I'm just going back to my motorcycle clothes.''
I assumed from the biker look that you were gay, but you have a wife and daughter. Do many people make this mistake? I wouldn't know. I'm a very happily married man with a gorgeous 20-year-old daughter at N.Y.U.
A 2004 New York Times profile described you as tyrannical. Accurate? My name is on the door, and I care very much about the design that gets put out. I'm sorry, but it has to be my way. You learn that by working for people like I. M. Pei. You think he isn't a design tyrant? Is Calvin Klein a tyrant? When it came to his dresses, he had to be. He's not going to listen to 28 assistants and go, ''Yeah, that's great, let's try that, and I'll put my name on it.'' It doesn't work that way in design.
You work all over the world. How much do your Middle Eastern clients differ from your Western ones? I had a wonderful interview once with a fantastic Saudi princess about doing a large home. I said, ''You know, we Westerners are very pretentious, and we don't really want to work if it's going to be in the Arab taste, all white and gold and mirrors.'' She said: ''I know exactly what you mean, and I can't believe that you had the you-know-whats to say that to my face. That's precisely what I want!'' So I said no.
A Louis Vuitton Lockit GM bag sells for about $3,200 in the store you designed in Shanghai. That's an average annual salary for a Chinese worker. Does that give you pause? People in Shanghai make a lot more money than the farmers in the rice paddies. The rice-paddy farmers are not buying Louis Vuitton bags, but the upwardly mobile ones in Shanghai, who are all working in Wall Street-type firms, are infinitely better-dressed than people in the West. Their women take this fashion thing seriously.
You've seen China's economic expansion firsthand. How frightened should we be? I opened this major Chanel in Shanghai, and there was a bloody highway like the F.D.R. Drive going right along the river. They said, ''Highway very bad along the river.'' I went six months later, and the highway wasn't there. In the West that might have taken 40 years. Shanghai is about 23 million people. I come back here, and New York feels like Iowa.
INTERVIEW HAS BEEN CONDENSED AND EDITED.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN OTH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); SPEECH & LANGUAGE DISORDERS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); RETAILERS (70%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



419 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1365 words

HEADLINE: Things Money Can and Cannot Buy Revive the 76ers

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON and PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
PHILADELPHIA -- The itinerary was a sports fan's dream: Friday in Miami to watch the resurgent 76ers play the Heat; hop on a private jet to Atlanta to catch the 76ers take on the Hawks on Saturday; head to Indianapolis for the Super Bowl on Sunday; then rush to Philadelphia to see the 76ers play the Los Angeles Lakers at home.
The whirlwind tour was no fantasy for Josh Harris, the billionaire private equity titan who bought the 76ers in October. A group led by Harris used its own money to buy the team for a relatively inexpensive sum of $280 million. But they have quickly applied their experience turning around struggling companies to rejuvenate the 76ers, who have drawn poorly and not made it past of the first round of the playoffs since 2003.
Since taking over, Harris and his executive team cut ticket prices, jazzed up the in-game presentation, began a new marketing campaign and spoke openly and often to fans. Harris also hired a Philadelphia native, Adam Aron, to be the chief executive, co-owner and the face of the team. 
Combined with the 76ers' improved play, the steps have helped turned the team into one of this season's feel-good stories and the sports darlings of a city best known for its bare-knuckle fans. Heading into Sunday's game against the Knicks, Philadelphia is in first place in the Atlantic division. Attendance is well ahead of last season, and the 76ers have a chance to break even after posting considerable financial losses in recent years.
''I got into it for the business challenge,'' Harris said recently. ''The Sixers were an undermanaged and undervalued asset that wasn't connecting with its fans and was heading into a lockout. We approached the investment in the same way that we would at a private equity firm.''
Harris, who co-founded Apollo Global Management, and his investor group are part of a wave of moneymen who, after accumulating substantial wealth in the bull market leading to the financial crisis, have acquired a professional sports team. Last year, Tom Gores, a Los Angeles-based private equity billionaire, bought the Detroit Pistons. In 2010, Joe Lacob, a Silicon Valley venture capitalist, became the majority owner of the Golden State Warriors. They follow a band of financiers who took over the Boston Celtics a decade ago.
''We view it as a benefit that they have such deep business experience and understand what it takes to improve a business,'' N.B.A. Commissioner David Stern said. ''It's about the focus of management that matters most.''
Private equity has been under the microscope because of Mitt Romney, the Republican presidential hopeful who made a fortune at Bain Capital. Harris has had to defend the industry on sports talk radio shows, but he said that he and his partners understood that the 76ers were a community trust, not something to be flipped for a quick profit.
Still, Harris said he viewed the team as an orphaned asset of its previous owner, Comcast Spectacor, a larger enterprise that was more focused on the Flyers and the teams' arena. The 76ers play in the fourth-largest N.B.A. market, yet were in the bottom third of the league in attendance the past six seasons, he said.
''Morale was broken, and the investment was seen as a real turnaround play,'' said Aron, a longtime executive at Apollo. ''Philadelphia had become a three-sport town and the Sixers played here,'' he added, referring to the team's standing behind the Eagles, the Flyers and the Phillies.
While other potential buyers were scared off by the lockout last year, Harris saw an opportunity because the owners ultimately won a greater share of leaguewide revenue. The uncertainty around the collective bargaining agreement ''allowed us to buy at a depressed price,'' said Harris, who owns the team with 13 other partners, including the actor Will Smith and David Blitzer, a senior executive at the Blackstone Group, another private equity firm.
Owning the 76ers has also been a coming-out party of sorts for Harris. A billionaire at 47, Harris had shunned the spotlight. Now he cannot avoid it. He is scrutinized in the Philadelphia news media, and fans routinely pepper him with questions and high-fives as he moves through Wells Fargo Center, where the 76ers play.
Gores, the new owner of the Pistons, has received similar treatment. He said that running a pro sports team was different from owning a steel maker.
''These are community assets that carry with them a different set of responsibilities,'' Gores said. ''Everybody in town has an opinion about the team, and with a steel company, you don't necessarily have that.''
Another difference is that fans prefer that owners have some allegiance to their city. Harris initially was viewed by some as just another wealthy New Yorker scooping up a storied Philadelphia franchise on the cheap. Harris, who lives in Manhattan with his wife, Marjorie, and their five children, is sensitive to the criticism. He has attended nearly every home game, shuttling to games down the New Jersey Turnpike in his chauffer-driven Cadillac Escalade.
Harris has also emphasized his long ties to Philadelphia. The son of an orthodontist, Harris grew up a Bullets fan in Chevy Chase, Md. But he earned his undergraduate business degree at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. During his freshman year, the 76ers won their last N.B.A. title. Harris's grandfather was a postal worker in the city, his mother graduated from Temple University, and his father is a Penn alumnus.
Harris, who describes the 76ers as his ''very large extracurricular'' activity, has kept his day job helping run Apollo, one of the world's largest private equity firms with holdings that include Caesars Entertainment. So he leaves most of the day-to-day chores with the 76ers to Aron, 57, who had no experience managing a sports team, but previously ran ski resorts and cruise lines.
When the lockout ended in December, the 76ers focused on keeping their roster intact rather than making a big free-agent splash. General Manager Rod Thorn re-signed the team's own free agents, Thaddeus Young and Spencer Hawes, believing continuity was an important asset in a shortened season. The workmanlike team has six players averaging double digits in points and was allowing the fewest points in the league entering the weekend. The 76ers' leading scorer is their sixth man, Louis Williams.
With Harris's blessing, Aron cut ticket prices by as much as 50 percent on thousands of seats, many of which had not been selling. He invited fans to apply for free seats behind the basket as long as they dress up in Philadelphia-themed outfits, and he has emphasized the team's history, which includes the third-most wins in the N.B.A. Aron even bought the court on which Wilt Chamberlain scored 100 points in Hershey, Pa., giving pieces away to fans on March 2, the 50th anniversary of Chamberlain's feat.
Aron regularly jousts with fans on Twitter, sending out dozens of posts a day from his account, @sixersceoadam. After a recent loss, Aron commiserated with a fan who said he had punched his wall. ''I put a dent in my wall too,'' Aron wrote.
With the Sixers winning, Aron said sales for the rest of the season ''are through the roof.'' They expect to sell more tickets during the 33-game home part of the season than they did last year, when they played all 41 home games. Television ratings through the All-Star break were 93 percent higher than last season.
Although Harris and Aron are still enjoying their honeymoon, they are starting to face many of the same struggles as other owners. After a torrid 20-9 start to the season, the 76ers have lost 8 out of their last 12 games and their lead in the Atlantic has slipped to two games.
A sour finish to the season could end their party with fickle fans and skeptical sportswriters. The day after Harris and his partners -- several of them fellow Wharton alumni -- announced their purchase of the team, The Philadelphia Daily News ran the headline, ''Rich Penn Guys Hope to Turn Sixers Around ... Good Luck With That.''
For now, though, Harris seems to be enjoying the ride.
''This is a little more exciting than investing in chemical companies,'' he said from his courtside seat.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Josh Harris, left, a Manhattan billionaire with Philadelphia roots, led a private equity group that bought the 76ers in October. He and Adam Aron, the team's chief executive, have reached out to fans, cut ticket prices and built a workmanlike, successful team. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM SHAFFER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS FANS (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (69%); TICKET SALES (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (57%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA HAWKS (58%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (57%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (54%)

TICKER: APO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (76%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (73%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (66%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (88%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%); INDIANA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



420 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IT'S THE ECONOMY; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Even Dairy Farming Has a 1 Percent

BYLINE: By ADAM DAVIDSON. 
Adam Davidson is co-founder of NPR's ''Planet Money,'' a podcast and blog.

 BODY:
Last month, after immersing myself in Brooklyn's artisanal-food scene, I felt the need that many in my home borough have these days: to get out on a farm and smell the manure. So I drove an hour and a half southwest of New York City to spend the day with three generations of dairy farmers.
Bob Fulper, 85, was born on what is now Fulper Farms in West Amwell Township, N.J. So was his son, Robert, 54, who currently runs the place with the help of his brother, Fred, who is 51. Robert's daughter, Breanna, 24, recently graduated from Cornell with a degree in dairy management. Breanna would like to lead the family business into the next generation, but she realizes it might not be financially possible. The modern dairy farm, it turns out, represents many of the volatile and confusing trends that have roiled the U.S. economy over the last decade. 
This, despite the fact that dairy farming has become shockingly more productive. When Bob was a kid, during the Depression, he and his 10 siblings milked the family's 15 cows by hand and produced 350 pounds' worth of milk per day. By the time Robert was a teenager, in the 1970s, the farm had grown to 90 cows -- all of which were milked automatically through vacuum technology -- and sold around 4,000 pounds of milk per day. Now the Fulpers own 135 cows, which produce more than 8,000 pounds of milk.
So the farm should be more lucrative, right? Robert showed me exactly how much money he and his brother made last year, an unusually profitable one for the dairy industry. He asked me not to reveal the number, but let's put it this way: Robert and Fred start work at 4:30 a.m., finish at 7 p.m. and trade Sundays off. If you divide their 2011 profit by their weekly hours, they earn considerably less than minimum wage. Unlike in their father's day, they have little money left over to invest in new equipment. One of their computers runs on MS-DOS.
How could Robert and Fred -- who produce so much more milk than their dad -- end up making less money? There are a number of reasons, some obvious, others less so. Milk went from a local industry to a national one, and then it became international. The technological advances that made the Fulpers more productive also helped every other dairy farm too, which led to ever more intense competition. But perhaps most of all, in the last decade, dairy products and cow feed became globally traded commodities. Consequently, modern farmers have effectively been forced to become fast-paced financial derivatives traders.
This has prompted a significant and drastic change. For most of the 20th century, dairy farming was a pretty stable business. Cows provide milk throughout the year, so farmers didn't worry too much about big seasonal swings. Also, at base, dairy-farming economics are simple: when the cost of corn and soybeans (which feed the cows) are low and milk prices are high, dairy farmers can make a comfortable living. And for decades, the U.S. government enforced stable prices for feed and for milk, which meant steady, predictable income, shaken only by disease or bad weather. ''You could project your income within 5 to 10 percent without trying too hard,'' says Alan Zepp, a dairy-farm risk manager in Pennsylvania.
But by the early aughts, to accommodate global trade rules and diminishing political support for agricultural subsidies, the government allowed milk prices to follow market demand. People in other parts of the world -- notably China and India -- also became richer and began demanding more meat and dairy products. Animal feed, especially corn and soybeans, became globally traded commodities with all the impossible-to-predict price swings of oil or copper. Today Robert can predict his profit or loss next month with all the certainty that you or I can predict the stock market or gas prices. During my visit, Robert said that his success this year will be determined by, among other things, China's unpredictable economic growth, the price of gas (influenced, of course, by events in Iran and Syria) and the weather in New Zealand (a major milk exporter), where a drought can send prices skyrocketing.
There are ways to manage, and even profit from, these new risks. The markets offer a stunning range of complex agricultural financial products. Dairy farmers (or, for that matter, anybody) can buy and sell milk and animal-feed futures, which allow them to lock in favorable prices, hedge against bad news in the future and so forth. There's also a new product that combines feed and milk futures into one financial package, allowing farmers to guarantee a minimum margin no matter what happens to commodity markets down the road.
The Fulpers, like most people, are too busy with their day jobs to truly monitor the markets. But dairy farming has its own 1 percent: that tiny sliver of massive farms, with thousands of cows, that make the biggest profits and are better equipped to pay agriculture-futures experts to help them manage risk. They continue to invest and grow. Unable to keep up with the changes, many smaller farms have gone out of business in the past decade.
Robert Fulper says that he and his brother have done a good job keeping their farm alive and healthy during this chaotic time, just as their father transformed the tiny, Depression-era farm into a solid, modern business. Now ''the next generation is going to have to figure some things out,'' Robert says, looking at his daughter, Breanna. The good news is that she's already trying. While at Cornell, Breanna used her family farm as a case study and developed a business plan to profit from their proximity to New York City and northeastern New Jersey. She began a summer camp in which kids spend a week caring for cows, learning about agriculture and running around a huge open space for $425 per week. Now the camp is almost as profitable as a year of milking cows. ''That summer-camp program put me through Cornell,'' Breanna says with a laugh. She's also negotiating with a cheesemaker to turn their milk into high-value Fulper-branded cheese.
Bob, her grandfather, told me a number of hysterical, unprintable farm jokes during my visit, but he turned pensive when it came to his farm's future. When times were bleak, he said, it used to be possible to work your way out of the problem. ''You just stay in the cowshed longer, work harder,'' he says. Now, he realizes, ''if you don't use your head, your hands aren't gonna help you.'' And even then, you might not make it.
Deep thoughts this week: 1. Dairy farming used to be a stable business. 2. Then corn and soy became global commodities. 3. How can a business that gets more productive make you poorer? 4. Ever invest in feed-and-milk futures?

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY MATTIAS ADOLFSSON) (MM14)
 GRAPHICS: THE RISKS OF DAIRY FARMING: It's not just the weather that hits a dairy farmer's bottom line. Here is a sampling of what they have to worry about (besides the price of complex commodity futures). (MM16-MM17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY FARMING (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (90%); MILK (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); AGRICULTURE (76%); FAMILY COMPANIES (76%); FAMILY (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); LIVESTOCK FEED (71%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (68%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



421 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; POSTING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Dial C for Condos

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
CELLPHONES have been blamed for all sorts of transgressions: the disappearance of phone booths, the decline of civility in restaurants and movie theaters, even for being potential carcinogens.
But there is at least one point in their favor: they have helped increase the supply of real estate in New York City. As the communications world has gone wireless, Verizon has been selling some of its monolithic ''central offices,'' once needed to house copper wire for land-line calls but now mostly obsolete. Among the new uses have been business offices, medical research labs and even high-school sports complexes.
One of those Verizon buildings, a 1929 tan-brick Art Deco high-rise at 212 West 18th Street in Chelsea, is being converted into luxury condominiums. The 53-unit project is called Walker Tower for its architect, Ralph Walker, who also designed several other phone company buildings. 
The $200 million project is a venture of JDS Development and the Property Markets Group. The developers say they are sparing no expense in the furnishings and finishes. The 12- to 15-foot-high ceilings will be coffered. Radiant heat will course through French-oak herringbone floors. Washing machines and dryers won't be stacked, as in many buildings, but will sit side by side, in individual laundry rooms.
''It's such a rare perfect storm in New York to have an asset like this, so we're not going to denigrate it,'' said Michael Stern, the managing partner at JDS, on a tour of what will become a three-bedroom with a home office.
Prices were set in the condo's offering plan, which was approved last year, but because the residential market has heated up since, the developers are seeking to raise them by 10 percent in an amended plan, he said. When the sales office opens this spring, condos are likely to cost about $3,000 a square foot -- double the going rate in the neighborhood, brokers say -- and as much as $10,000 a foot for the eight penthouses, said Shaun Osher, the founder of the Core Group NYC, which is handling sales. With an average size of 3,000 square feet, a typical unit might cost $9 million.
In some ways, Walker Tower's most impressive feat might be even getting built at all. Mr. Stern, who first toured it on Sept. 15, 2008, when Lehman Brothers collapsed, taking down much of the economy with it, had to get permission to take it over from the state's Public Service Commission, because it housed a telecommunications company.
That extra layer of approval meant that it took a relatively long time to close the deal, Mr. Stern said. Further, Verizon didn't want to concede the whole building, so it was divided into two condominiums.
Verizon owns Floors 2 through 7, which contain offices for about a dozen employees who will come to work through a West 17th Street entryway. Mr. Stern owns the condo that encompasses Floors 8 through 23.
Other major changes included lowering the parapet wall on the tower's many wedding-cake-type setbacks, to one foot from four feet, to improve views from terraces. Similarly, windows were lengthened to 10 feet, from 5, and cut into the eastern wall where none existed before, developers said.
Some elevator shafts in the building, which is supposed to be ready for occupancy in spring 2013, were also removed to gain residential space.
If the project has been difficult, the developers don't seem deterred. In fact, the same team recently started interior demolition on another Walker-designed telephone building it owns, at 435 West 50th Street, which is also envisioned as a condo conversion.
In both, thick walls and floors that were strong enough for crackling switchboards have proved ideal for residential uses, said Mr. Stern, who added, ''There are no more solid buildings than these.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WALKER TOWER: Michael Stern, left, a developer, and Shaun Osher of the Core Group NYC at a Verizon building in Chelsea that is being converted into 53 luxury condos. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); FILM (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (79%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); APPROVALS (77%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); CARCINOGENS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (71%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (60%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (56%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (55%)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (85%); PROPERTY MARKETS GROUP (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (85%); VZ (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



422 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Rent-Regulation Wars Are Only a Sideshow

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
With a certain regularity, New Yorkers are given the opportunity to engage in a satisfyingly maddening if futile pastime: decrying the obscenities of rent regulation.
The narratives present themselves readily: Last year we learned that for nearly two decades, Faye Dunaway had a rent-stabilized apartment on the Upper East Side for which she paid about $1,000 a month. Many of us know someone, or know someone who knows someone, who has managed to live a Woody Allen life in a sprawling West Side classic-six for monthly carrying costs that would seem only minimally to exceed the cable bill. In some of these instances, the lucky jerk unfairly receiving the city's largess has managed to save up so much money that August will find him at his second place in the Berkshires or the South of France. 
These accounts allow us to regard instances of lunacy and system failure as representative of the norm. The latest case to command attention, ignite furies and lend credence to these particular urban mythologies revolves around the efforts of a former federal prosecutor, James D. Harmon Jr., to overturn the city's rent-stabilization laws based on personal grievance. Mr. Harmon and his wife, Jeanne, as my colleague Anemona Hartocollis has reported, are the owners of a brownstone on West 76th Street, off Central Park, and have three rent-stabilized apartments in their building, one of them occupied by a tenant who pays $951.22 a month for a one-bedroom. During the past two decades, the Harmons claim in court documents, they have been effectively financing the $1,500 monthly mortgage payments the tenant makes on her Long Island weekend home.
If the tenant were a puppeteer or a composer of avant-garde operettas, we could rationalize her good fortune by arguing that the city ought to be a place hospitable to eccentric creativity. But, indefensibly, the Harmons' tenant, The Wall Street Journal reported last week, toils in the remunerative and mundane realm of executive recruiting.
The couple have lost two prior legal battles to reverse the laws that keep their tenants in place. Currently, though, Mr. Harmon is in the middle of petitioning the United States Supreme Court to hear his case, in part on the grounds that the state's rent-regulation statutes violate the due process clauses of the 5th and 14th Amendments. The past week had the city, the state and Mr. Harmon, who is representing himself along with co-counsel, filing briefs to the court, which will presumably decide on it soon. And this coming week, the City Council is expected to ask the state to renew the regulations, and the state is expected, as usual, to comply.
That makes Mr. Harmon angry. ''Either there is such a thing as private property or there isn't,'' he told me. ''I'm 68; my wife is 67. We'd like to plan for our future such as it might be.''
While it requires virtually no effort to sympathize with someone in his position, this kind of story and the conversations it generates tend to obscure the fact that rent stabilization and rent control, despite profound flaws and inefficiencies, do not disproportionately benefit the affluent. According to an analysis of the most recent city data, which date to 2008, by New York University's Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy, the median income of a New Yorker in a rent-stabilized apartment is $36,000 a year; in Manhattan, it is $50,000.
''Certain types of stabilization can create more integrated communities,'' the Harvard economist Edward Glaeser, author of the book ''Triumph of the City,'' said to me recently. ''New York is a more diverse place because of rent stabilization, and I say that as a staunch and steadfast enemy of rent stabilization.''
Of the city's 1,063,000 rent-regulated units, approximately 41,000 are in the hands of households making $150,000 a year or more. If we hired private investigators to examine the ranks of those households, we would surely find egregious abuses of the system -- unmarried lawyers making $350,000 salaries -- but we would presumably also find families of five living on less than half of that. (And it hardly bears remarking that $175,000 in New York City is not the same as $175,000 in Jackson, Miss.)
Moreover, according to the city data, approximately 240,000 rent-controlled and rent-stabilized units are occupied by those making $15,000 or less a year.
What a fixation with rent regulation often does is deflect our attention from other policies and economic perversions that keep New York City's housing from being affordable to a broad stretch of its population. More than half of New Yorkers, whether they are in rent-stabilized apartments or those priced at market rates, spend above 30 percent of their income on rent, according to the Furman Center; 25 percent to 30 percent has long been the guideline. Nearly a third of those in rent-stabilized apartments are paying more than 50 percent in rent. A few weeks ago, I wrote about a formerly homeless man whose salary was insufficient to pay for a $963-a-month one-bedroom apartment in an undesirable part of the South Bronx.
In his provocative new e-book, aptly titled ''The Rent Is Too Damn High,'' the Slate columnist Matthew Yglesias points to, among other things, all the zoning restrictions that keep New York and other cities from growing taller and accommodating greater numbers.
It is easy to walk around a neighborhood like Cobble Hill in Brooklyn and never think about the extent to which rows and rows of beautifully preserved, untouchable low-rise brownstones contribute to the city's perennial housing shortage. And, anyway, it's a lot more fun to blame Faye Dunaway.
E-mail: bigcity@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TEST CASE: The landlords want help from the Supreme Court. (MB1)
CONTROVERSY: Recent years' rent-regulation news has featured, from left, Jeanne and James D. Harmon Jr., the candidate Jimmy McMillan and Faye Dunaway. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENT CONTROL (93%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); DUE PROCESS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); CITIES (69%); PETITIONS (69%); MUSICAL THEATER (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (63%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



423 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: Exodus From North Signals Iraqi Christians' Slow Decline

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY; Omar al-Jawoshy contributed reporting.

 BODY:
TENNA, Iraq -- Iraq's dwindling Christians, driven from their homes by attacks and intimidation, are beginning to abandon the havens they had found in the country's north, discouraged by unemployment and a creeping fear that the violence they had fled was catching up to them.
Their quiet exodus to Turkey, Jordan, Europe and the United States is the latest chapter of a seemingly inexorable decline that many religious leaders say tolls the twilight of Christianity in a land where city skylines have long been marked by both minarets and church steeples. Recent assessments say that Iraq's Christian population has now fallen by more than half since the 2003 American invasion, and with the military's departure, some Christians say they lost a protector of last resort.
Their flight is felt in places like the wind-scoured village of Tenna, which has sheltered dozens of Christian migrants over the past nine years. The families fleeing Baghdad's death squads and bombings found safety here beneath the hulking mountains, but little else besides poverty, boredom and cold. Villagers estimate that half of the 50 or so Christian homes are now empty, their families abroad. 
Walid Shamoon, 42, wants to be the next to leave. He said he left Iraq's capital in January 2011 after a confrontation with Shiite militia members set off a nightmare of escalating death threats and an attempt on his life. A brother had already been killed in a mortar attack six years earlier, so he said he quit his contract job with the Australian Embassy, giving up a $1,500 monthly salary, and came here.
These days, all he can think about is his application to emigrate to Arizona.
''This is not a life,'' he said one recent afternoon, as a blizzard raced down from the mountains. ''There is no improvement. There is no work.''
Many of the people now struggling in Iraq's Kurdish north came in the wake of a suicide attack in Baghdad at Our Lady of Salvation Church in October 2010. It was the single worst assault on Iraq's Christians since the war began, one that left 50 worshipers and 2 priests dead and that turned the church into a charnel house of scorched pews and shattered stained glass.
Christian families in Baghdad grabbed clothing, cash and a few other provisions and headed north for the Christian communities along the Nineveh plain and Kurdistan's three provinces. They joined tens of thousands of other Christians from the capital, Mosul and other cities who traced similar arcs after earlier attacks and assassination campaigns.
''They traded everything for security,'' said the Rev. Gabriel Tooma, who leads the Monastery of the Virgin Mary in the Christian town of Qosh, which took in dozens of families.
The Christians in northern Iraq make up a tiny fraction of Iraq's legions of displaced people. In all, there are 1.3 million of them across the country, according to the most recent United Nations estimates. Many live in garbage dumps, shanty towns and squalor far worse than anything facing the Christian families in Kurdistan.
Still, Christians and other minorities were singled out in the years of sectarian cleansing that bifurcated a once-diverse Baghdad into pockets of Sunnis and Shiites. Estimates by the United States and international organizations say that Iraq's prewar Christian population of 800,000 to 1.4 million now stands at less than 500,000.
''The consequence of this flight may be the end of Christianity in Iraq,'' the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom wrote in its most recent annual report, summarizing the concerns of church leaders.
In January, the International Organization for Migration found that 850 of 1,350 displaced Christian families it was tracking in northern Iraq had left in the past year. Many cited fears about security as well as the strains of finding work, housing and schools in an unfamiliar place where they had few connections and spoke only Arabic, and not Kurdish.
''No one has done anything for us,'' said Salim Yono Auffee, a member of the Chaldean/Assyrian Popular Council, a Christian group in northern Iraq. ''These people are trying to figure out how to build their futures, to find homes, to get married. And they are leaving Iraq.''
Even in the relative safety of Kurdistan, some Christians say they still live in apprehension. A kidnapping of a Christian businessman in Erbil, the Kurdish capital, and a recent outbreak of riots and arson attacks against Christian-owned liquor stores in Dohuk Province -- the northernmost in Iraq, along the Turkish border -- have deeply unsettled Christian migrants to the area.
Seven years ago, after retrieving his son from kidnappers, Salam Meti Abdul Karim moved his family from Mosul to the small Christian community of Shioz, a half-hour's drive from the center of Dohuk Province. The years passed quietly, until one night in December, when a pickup truck full of men pulled up at the edge of town and set fire to a liquor warehouse.
''I felt like history was repeating itself,'' Mr. Abdul Karim said. ''We worry the situation is just going to devolve into violence. I was thinking to just take my family and go up to the mountains.''
The village hired armed guards after the attack, Mr. Abdul Karim said.
No Christians were killed in the riots against Christian store owners. Local officials say they were not specifically targeted because of their religion, but because the mobs who burned their stores -- and the conservative clerics who had incited them -- viewed the alcohol sales as un-Islamic.
Still, Kurdish officials, who have welcomed Christians to the region, rushed to defuse fears conjured by the clash. Massoud Barzani, the Kurdish president, visited Christians in Zakho, the city where the riots were centered, and a parade of government officials and religious leaders emphasized Kurdistan's historical tolerance, and its deep ties to Assyrians, Chaldeans and other branches of Christianity.
''They are part of us,'' said Fadil Omar, the head of the provincial council in Dohuk.
The Kurdish government has offered land, free fuel and other assistance to Christians as they have arrived from Baghdad, and it has opened its universities to students from Mosul, officials say. And Christians do not lack a political voice. They sit on local and provincial councils throughout the north, and hold seats in Parliament in Kurdistan and Baghdad.
Despite the help, many families say they are straining to stay afloat. Those close to cities have found jobs, but those in villages are largely unemployed, and they subsist on government pensions or relief payments of about $200 per month. They skip meals and share heating fuel. They are often miles from schools that teach in Arabic, and some parents say their children have dropped out.
The mountain village of Dawudiyah is a study in trade-offs, a place whose residents share similar stories of fear and flight from their homes in Baghdad. One man was threatened with death if he did not hand over his daughter to militants. A couple's son was killed on his way home from work. Another family's son was gunned down with three friends. They gave little thought to the consequences of leaving. They just had to get out.
''It was unbearable,'' said Berkho Odeesho, the village's mayor. ''We found safety in Kurdistan, but things are getting unstable. We don't know where to go.''
But like others here, Mr. Odeesho has a plan. He has applied for an immigration visa, and he is now busy preparing for his consular interview. Uprooting his family from Iraq may be difficult, he said, but it would be in service of a new future, away from Iraq, in a distant place called Illinois.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LEAVING A HAVEN: At monasteries in Qosh, above and at left, Christians who fled Baghdad's strife for the Kurdish north are now abandoning the area, ground down in part by a lack of jobs. Below, a recent church service in the Christian town. (A6)
 Iraqi Christians at a preschool in Qosh. Few schools teach in Arabic, a hurdle for many families. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADAM FERGUSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) MAP: Many who sought refuge in Iraq's north have moved on. (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (76%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); TURKEY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



424 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: A New Persian Empire Plants a Personal Flag

BYLINE: By POROCHISTA KHAKPOUR. 
Porochista Khakpour, author of the novel '''Sons and Other Flammable Objects,'' is the Picador guest professor for literature at the University of Leipzig.

 BODY:
IN the beginning there was the word ... Persian.
It was imaginary, of a place that no longer exists, the realm of dusty maps and fairy tales and myths, and yet for my entire childhood it was who I was. We said ''Irani'' among Iranians, but when we were among Americans ''Persian'' was the name of the game. I said it because my parents said it. At first I suspected empire-state-of-mind pride, though I slowly began to sense bony shame in an era when Iran equaled ''hostage crisis'' and ''revolution.''
I hid in American costumes -- punk, cowgirl, starlet -- and took on ''Persian'' only when I had to. Once in a while a baffled peer would ask: ''But what's Persian? Aren't you from Iran?'' I'd spin the wheel in my brain and let the arrow land on the many somethings, anythings, I had cobbled: Oh, it's the label for Islamic-Republic-disliking Iranians! Or it's what Iranians who used to be fancy prefer! Or it refers to a state in Iran -- uh, state of mind -- I mean, an actual state -- yes, that's it! 
The stress was hideous. My ''Oriental'' best friend (''Where's Orienta?'' a student asked her once) and my ''Persian'' self were perpetually rolled up into ourselves like, well, discount rugs.
As I grew older I said ''Iranian'' -- never mind the label's problematic past, I was concerned with owning its problematic present. After the Sept. 11 attacks I began insisting on it. No more convenient euphemisms.
Little did I know 2012 would herald ''The Return of the Persian.'' At least according to the Bravo cable channel, which on Sunday is unveiling the reality series ''Shahs of Sunset,'' from Ryan Seacrest Productions. On the show, which follows a group of well-heeled friends in Los Angeles, ''Persian'' is thrown around as if ''Iranian'' never existed. But who could blame them? If it's a bad time for Iranians, just maybe it's a great time for Persians.
For it has been a winter of discontent for us, a particularly hard one in more than three decades of discontentment. As Israel, Iran and the United States play their messy games of cat and mouse and musical chairs, the temperature has plunged to cold-warring with sanctions that have hurt Iran's people while helping the regime. Hot-war talk hastened, but so far the old World War III nightmare is being dangled as a threat.
For Iranians -- here, there, anywhere -- it means just more living in the tangles of neurotic defense and justification. In the endless hangover from old empire glory, the dissecting of old dirty realities in new contexts is complicated, we explain to others, we explain to ourselves: problematic on-and-off flings with the West; church and state dysfunction thanks to the dual leadership of frenemies; extrareligious fundamentalism fronting to mask secular economic fiending. It all adds up to never-ending identity angst that perhaps only an American can understand.
Then suddenly an intermission: in came Asghar Farhadi's resoundingly universal 2011 feature film ''A Separation,'' which had artistry and accidental timing on its side as it crept from the festival circuit to an Oscar. With the ticking of the nuclear clock growing audible, all sorts of displaced hopes and anxieties clung to the film's ascent. As Mr. Farhadi even said, ''I think it's not only the best film, I think it's the film that has to win.'' And when it did, Iranians' Facebook and Twitter yawp went, ''We won.'' For once the diaspora and homeland Iranians were connected in a similar cause: a love of great art.
Still, Iranian cynics, more invested than rappers in cred, piped up with their mix of hyperanalysis and haterade, jabbing while applauding. Was Mr. Farhadi, who received permission to make the film, in bed with the Iranian government? (Never mind that the government at one point pulled the plug on production after his vocal support of imprisoned filmmakers.) Was it another depiction of the unbearable heaviness of being Iranian? (Never mind that the film's meditation on divorce, Alzheimer's and middle-class family struggles should be filed under the unbearable heaviness of being human.) Even when you win, you lose -- so goes Iranian-ness.
Perhaps Persian-ness can fare better? Now little ol' ''Shahs of Sunset'' enters this complicated universe. This dreaded coming out of the disapora has for months spurred tweeting Iranians to tarring and feathering, as if no one had witnessed badly drawn reality-TV Iranians or seen a royalist-offspring comedy of errors before. Long forgotten was the 2004 E! show ''Love Is in the Heir,'' the goofy chronicles of the real-life Pahlavi dynasty princess Ann Claire Van Shaick and her country-music-star aspirations.
But now, in the shadow of political depression and artistic high, what does one do with ''Shahs'' and its particularly American specimens of Iranian descent?
When the show was announced last summer, a sick side of me rooted for the delicious worst: for years I've been writing about such a minstrel show, working on a novel about Iranian-American reality TV. Then I entered a period of deep Tehrangelena worry. Finally, upon viewing the new Bravo show, I couldn't bother to be bothered, as the ''Persian'' label proved far more troubling than the been-there-done-that Kardashian-Real-Housewives-Jersey Shore mash-up contents.
Plus, I wasn't above some giggle gags of recognition here and there: G G, the show's resident ''Persian princess'' whose ''baddest bitch'' spirit is a sham to all but her (we both have done time in impractical shoes, with boys, at shooting ranges); Asa, the earthy-mystical urban artist with a flair for higher callings of the imitation-Erykah Badu variety (I used to moonlight as yoga teacher by day, hip-hop journalist by night); Reza, the gay Iranian real estate whiz who deals only in funny and money (a sense of humor helped me cope with mannequins, living and inanimate, during my Rodeo Drive shop-girl days). Less personal but nonetheless expected: the clubby soundtrack, the racist Persian mother and the caged tiger at a pool party.
O God of Yahoo! Answers, who could ask for anything more? Here, you have it: the modern-day Persian.
Which -- eureka! rest easy, Iranians! -- is only American culture, mainlined and snorted to overdose, specifically, the new-money culture of Westside Los Angeles, where too many ethnic minorities fashioned their lives in the image of their affluent white predecessors. For Iranians, this means the '80s made them ''Dynasty'' extras. When G G and Asa get heated over an accusation of wearing -- insult of insults -- H&M, you find a generic all-American parable of new money and assimilation insanity.
In this way ''Shahs'' is -- dare I say? -- more daunting to deconstruct than ''A Separation.'' Who can capture a young diaspora doing as young diasporas do: huffing freedom and crashing and burning, playing hook-and-kick with selves made up of their parents' hand-me-down post-traumatic stress disorder?
For many, this show will come and go, but facing it is in order, depending on allegiance, of course.
For my fellow Iranian-Americans who are struggling with it: You doth protest too much, methinks. Ryan Seacrest isn't playing Columbus with Iranian-America: the secret of ''Shahs'' was out long ago in malls, clubs, salons and executive lounges around the country. The honeymoon period of immigrant invisibility is over; ''Shahs'' is part of the assimilation pact, as is appreciation for ''A Separation.'' The only way to fight ''Shahs'' is to travel back by time machine to your local royalist with a simple request: Hit up a therapist before the Armani outlet.
For Iranians in Iran: Have a good laugh. Or cry. Yes, these are your cousins who were rooting for you to risk life and limb and fight the Green Revolution for them as they watched on satellite TV, sometimes the very same ones who advocated invasion of your country to liberate you. It's unclear whether ''Shahs'' will explore the conservatism and reactionary side of the Tehrangeleno culture, but you know the subtext.
For Persians: I asked a cast member, Reza, about Bravo's Persian-label problem. His first answer danced around his hatred of the common pronunciation EYE-ranian, but then he said:
''And things from Iran, whether they're people or objects, are all Persian. Food is Persian, rugs are Persian, cats are Persian, people are Persian. It's not because I'm ashamed or embarrassed. Mind you, I am very much more Cyrus and Darius than I am Islamic Republic.''
Such outdated Orientalist misconceptions plus cracked psyche is a fiction writer's dream. It's also why you should not say Persian.
For all other Americans: I asked Mr. Seacrest about Bravo's New Persian-ness and he replied, ''As producers, we didn't impose any rules about referring to the cast one way or another, but more often than not they ended up using 'Persian' themselves.''
Frances Berwick, the president of Bravo, said: ''I defer to you. I don't think we have called them anything. But it's an interesting question. I don't know.''
Whether it's confused paralysis or convenient glossing, it's all tiptoeing in a time when awareness and education are critical. We're not going anywhere, but now our recognition and reception rest on your electing, viewing, awarding selves. You decide the extent of hiding and seeking that problem child, the Persian.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The new Bravo show ''Shahs of Sunset'' follows a group of affluent Los Angeles-area Iranian-American friends who like to describe themselves as ''Persian.'' They include, above, Reza Farahan and Golnesa Gharachedaghi, a k a G G, the ''Persian princess.'' The author at 8, left, in her punk ''costume,'' ponders how this will play out in American culture. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY COLLEEN E. HAYES/BRAVO
 ASHA KHAKPOUR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); TERRORISM (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%); CABLE TELEVISION (61%); REALITY TELEVISION (61%); HOSTAGE TAKING (55%); RELIGION (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ASHA (59%)

PERSON: RYAN SEACREST (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (79%)

TITLE: Shahs of Sunset (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



425 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: Next-To-Nothing Interest On Savings Accounts

 BODY:
To the Editor:
After reading the column on the low interest rates paid on savings accounts, I can only wonder what would happen if we had a ''revolt of the savers'' (''0.2% Interest? You Bet We'll Complain,'' Fair Game, March 4). 
Consider this scenario: Those of us with a few thousand, or a few hundred thousand, in regular savings, money market funds or C.D.'s go to our bankers and ask for the money in cash -- good old greenbacks.
Next, we ask the banker to accompany us to our safe deposit boxes, where we can then deposit that cash. Now, we give the banker our phone number and let him or her know that when they're ready to pay some higher rate of return on savings, they know where to call.
How much of these supposedly insignificant amounts would have to be withdrawn before panic would ensue? Jim Walters
Iowa City, Iowa, March 4
To the Editor:
I am a 72-year-old who has played by the rules for 53 years. I have worked and saved and voted and paid taxes (as well as banking fees) for all of that time.
Now a Federal Reserve governor tells us that the pain of low interest rates on those savings is good for much of the economy. Because of government's decision to reward the banks and punish the savers, the golden years are becoming the worthless-paper years for many people.
And to add insult to continuing injury, few elected representatives are actively and passionately pursuing this cause.
Joel Weinstein
Edgartown, Mass., March 4

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (50%) IOWA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



426 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: The Go-Nowhere Generation

BYLINE: By TODD G. BUCHHOLZ and VICTORIA BUCHHOLZ. 
Todd G. Buchholz is the author of ''Rush: Why You Need and Love the Rat Race.'' Victoria Buchholz, a student at Cambridge University, is at work on a book about the neuropsychology of the teenage brain.

 BODY:
AMERICANS are supposed to be mobile and even pushy. Saul Bellow's Augie March declares, ''I am an American ... first to knock, first admitted.'' In ''The Grapes of Wrath,'' young Tom Joad loads up his jalopy with pork snacks and relatives, and the family flees the Oklahoma dust bowl for sun-kissed California. Along the way, Granma dies, but the Joads keep going.
But sometime in the past 30 years, someone has hit the brakes and Americans -- particularly young Americans -- have become risk-averse and sedentary. The timing is terrible. With an 8.3 percent unemployment rate and a foreclosure rate that would grab the attention of the Joads, young Americans are less inclined to pack up and move to sunnier economic climes. 
The likelihood of 20-somethings moving to another state has dropped well over 40 percent since the 1980s, according to calculations based on Census Bureau data. The stuck-at-home mentality hits college-educated Americans as well as those without high school degrees. According to the Pew Research Center, the proportion of young adults living at home nearly doubled between 1980 and 2008, before the Great Recession hit. Even bicycle sales are lower now than they were in 2000. Today's generation is literally going nowhere. This is the Occupy movement we should really be worried about.
For about $200, young Nevadans who face a statewide 13 percent jobless rate can hop a Greyhound bus to North Dakota, where they'll find a welcome sign and a 3.3 percent rate. Why are young people not crossing borders? ''This generation is going through an economic reset,'' said John Della Volpe, who directs polling at Harvard's Institute of Politics, which surveys thousands of young people each year. He reports that young people want to stay more connected with their hometowns: ''I spoke with a kid from Columbus, Ohio, who dreamed of being a high school teacher. When he found out he'd have to move to Arizona or the Sunbelt, he took a job in a Columbus tire factory.''
In the most startling behavioral change among young people since James Dean and Marlon Brando started mumbling, an increasing number of teenagers are not even bothering to get their driver's licenses. Back in the early 1980s, 80 percent of 18-year-olds proudly strutted out of the D.M.V. with newly minted licenses, according to a study by researchers at the University of Michigan's Transportation Research Institute. By 2008 -- even before the Great Recession -- that number had dropped to 65 percent. Though it's easy to blame the high cost of cars or gasoline, Comerica Bank's Automobile Affordability Index shows that it takes fewer weeks of work income to buy a car today than in the early 1980s, and inflation-adjusted gasoline prices didn't get out of line until a few years ago.
Perhaps young people are too happy at home checking Facebook. In a study of 15 countries, Michael Sivak, a professor at the University of Michigan's Transportation Research Institute (who also contributed to the D.M.V. research), found that when young people spent more time on the Internet, they delayed getting their driver's licenses. ''More time on Facebook probably means less time on the road,'' he said. That may mean safer roads, but it also means a bumpier, less vibrant economy.
All this turns American history on its head. We are a nation of movers and shakers. Pilgrims leapt onto leaky boats to get here. The Lost Generation chased Hemingway and Gertrude Stein to Paris. The Greatest Generation signed up to ship out to fight Nazis in Germany or the Japanese imperial forces in the Pacific. The '60s kids joined the Peace Corps.
But Generation Y has become Generation Why Bother. The Great Recession and the still weak economy make the trend toward risk aversion worse. Children raised during recessions ultimately take fewer risks with their investments and their jobs. Even when the recession passes, they don't strive as hard to find new jobs, and they hang on to lousy jobs longer. Research by the economist Lisa B. Kahn of the Yale School of Management shows that those who graduated from college during a poor economy experienced a relative wage loss even 15 years after entering the work force.
Perhaps more worrisome, kids who grow up during tough economic times also tend to believe that luck plays a bigger role in their success, which breeds complacency. ''Young people raised during recessions end up less entrepreneurial and less willing to leave home because they believe that luck counts more than effort,'' said Paola Giuliano, an economist at U.C.L.A.'s Anderson School of Management. A bad economy can boost a person's weighting of luck by 20 percent, Ms. Giuliano found.
Notice how popular the word ''random'' has become among young people. A Disney TV show called ''So Random!'' has ranked first in the ratings among tweens. The word has morphed from a precise statistical term to an all-purpose phrase that stresses the illogic and coincidence of life. Unfortunately, societies that emphasize luck over logic are not likely to thrive.
In the mid-'70s, back when every high school kid longed for his driver's license and a chance to hit the road and find freedom, Bruce Springsteen wrote his brilliant, exciting album ''Born to Run.'' A generation later, as kids began to hunker down, Mr. Springsteen wrote his depressing, dead-end dirge, ''The Ghost of Tom Joad.'' We need to reward and encourage forward movement, not slouching. That may sound harsh, but do we really want to turn into a country where young Americans can't even recognize the courage of Tom Joad?
Maybe it's time to yank out the power cords, pump up the flat bicycle tires or even reopen Route 66 -- whatever it takes to get our kids back on the road.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PATRICK KYLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (87%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); FORECLOSURE (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); SALES FIGURES (69%); CENSUS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); DRIVERS LICENSES (60%); LICENSES & PERMITS (60%)

COMPANY: COMERICA INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (56%)

TICKER: CMA (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (60%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



427 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: Hardcover Nonfiction: Sunday, March 11th 2012

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the March 11, 2012 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending February 25, 2012. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: Hardcover NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList118AMERICAN SNIPER, by Chris Kyle with Scott McEwen and Jim DeFelice. (Morrow/HarperCollins, $26.99.) A member of the Navy SEALs discusses his childhood, his marriage and his battlefield experiences during the Iraq war. 21ABUNDANCE, by Peter H. Diamandis and Steven Kotler. (Free Press, $26.99.) An entrepreneur argues that innovations in water, food, energy, health care, education and freedom will solve society&#8217;s biggest problems. &#8224;3322KILLING LINCOLN, by Bill O&#39;Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Holt, $28.) The heart-stopping events surrounding the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. 4418STEVE JOBS, by Walter Isaacson. (Simon &#38; Schuster, $35.) A biography of the recently deceased entrepreneur who was the visionary of Apple. 5*1INDIVISIBLE, by James Robison and Jay W. Richards. (FaithWords, $21.99.) An examination of politics, faith and culture from a Christian perspective maintains that Americans can unite to overcome their cultural malaise and revive the economy. &#8224;626AMERITOPIA, by Mark R. Levin. (Threshold Editions, $26.99.) A talk-show host and president of Landmark Legal Foundation surveys the history of utopias and warns that Americans must choose between utopianism and liberty. 775QUIET, by Susan Cain. (Crown, $26.) Introverts &#8212; one-third of the population &#8212; are undervalued in American society. 8*53BEHIND THE BEAUTIFUL FOREVERS, by Katherine Boo. (Random House, $27.) A journalist reports on families striving for better lives in a Mumbai slum. 9967UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House, $27.) An Olympic runner&#39;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II. 1083BRINGING UP B&#201;B&#201;, by Pamela Druckerman. (Penguin Press, $25.95.) An American mother discovers the principles of French parenting. 1163ONCE UPON A SECRET, by Mimi Alford. (Random House, $25.) A former White House intern recounts her affair with John F. Kennedy. 12*114COMING APART, by Charles Murray. (Crown Forum, $27.) The author of &#34;The Bell Curve&#34; explores the state of white America, 1960-2010. 13162UNORTHODOX, by Deborah Feldman. (Simon &#38; Schuster, $23.) A woman breaks free of the Satmar Hasidic community in Brooklyn in which she was raised. 14103HILARITY ENSUES, by Tucker Max. (Blue Heeler Books, $25.99.) More stories from a life of serial debauchery. 15*1318THINKING, FAST AND SLOW, by Daniel Kahneman. (Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux, $30.) The winner of the Nobel in economic science discusses how we make choices in business and personal life and when we can and cannot trust our intuitions.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
16. FULL SERVICE, by Scotty Bowers with Lionel Friedberg. (Grove)
17. WHILE AMERICA SLEEPS, by Russ Feingold. (Crown)
18. THROUGH MY EYES, by Tim Tebow with Nathan Whitaker. (HarperCollins)
19. MOB DAUGHTER, by Karen Gravano with Lisa Pulitzer. (St. Martin&#39;s)
20. EISENHOWER IN WAR AND PEACE, by Jean Edward Smith. (Random House)
21. ALI IN WONDERLAND, by Ali Wentworth. (Harper/HarperCollins)
22. THE SCIENCE OF YOGA, by William J. Broad. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
23. THAT WOMAN, by Anne Sebba. (St. Martin&#8217;s)
24. IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown)
25. ENEMIES, by Tim Weiner. (Random House)
26. A UNIVERSE FROM NOTHING, by Lawrence M. Krauss. (Free Press)
27. CATHERINE THE GREAT, by Robert K. Massie. (Random House)
28. HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson)
29. ELIZABETH THE QUEEN, by Sally Bedell Smith. (Random House)
30. FAIRY TALE INTERRUPTED, by RoseMarie Terenzio. (Gallery)
31. DA VINCI&#39;S GHOST, by Toby Lester. (Free Press)
32. THE WORLD AMERICA MADE, by Robert Kagan. (Knopf)
33. BOOMERANG, by Michael Lewis. (Norton)
34. THE AMERICAN WAY OF EATING, by Tracie McMillan. (Scribner)
35. HIDING FROM REALITY, by Taylor Armstrong. (Gallery)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BESTSELLERS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); WRITERS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); JOURNALISM (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); RETAILERS (73%); FAMILY (72%); WORLD WAR II (67%); IRAQ WAR (66%); RUNNING (65%); PARENTING (63%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



428 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: E-Book Nonfiction: Sunday, March 11th 2012

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the March 11, 2012 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending February 25, 2012. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: E-Book NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList113VOW, by Kim and Krickitt Carpenter with Dana Wilkerson. (B&#38;H Publishing Group) After a horrific car crash, a couple embark on a journey to fall in love all over again. The true events that inspired the movie. 21WASHINGTON&#8217;S CROSSING, by David Hackett Fischer. (Oxford University Press) A historian&#8217;s account of the crucial Revolutionary battles at Trenton and Princeton, beginning on Christmas night in 1776. 3357HEAVEN IS FOR REAL, by Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent. (Thomas Nelson) A father recounts his 3-year-old son&#8217;s encounter with Jesus and the angels during an emergency appendectomy. 468AMERICAN SNIPER, by Chris Kyle with Scott McEwen and Jim DeFelice. (HarperCollins Publishers) A member of the Navy SEALs with the most career sniper kills in United States military history discusses his childhood, his marriage and his battlefield experiences. 5418STEVE JOBS, by Walter Isaacson. (Simon &#38; Schuster) A biography of the recently deceased entrepreneur, based on 40 interviews with Jobs conducted over two years. 6757UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House Publishing) An Olympic runner&#8217;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II after his bomber went down over the Pacific. 7822KILLING LINCOLN, by Bill O&#39;Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Holt) The anchor of &#8220;The O&#8217;Reilly Factor&#8221; recounts one of the most consequential episodes of American history: the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. 853ONCE UPON A SECRET, by Mimi Alford. (Random House Publishing) A former White House intern recounts her affair with John F. Kennedy. 922UNORTHODOX, by Deborah Feldman. (Simon &#38; Schuster) A woman breaks free of the Satmar Hasidic community in Brooklyn in which she was raised. 1093BEHIND THE BEAUTIFUL FOREVERS, by Katherine Boo. (Random House Publishing) A journalist reports on families striving for better lives in a Mumbai slum. 112FULL SERVICE, by Scotty Bowers with Lionel Friedberg. (Grove/Atlantic) A gossipy account of the sex lives of the stars during Hollywood&#8217;s golden age. 121347BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Little, Brown &#38; Company) A memoir from the former &#34;Saturday Night Live&#34; star and creator of &#34;30 Rock.&#34; 13105QUIET, by Susan Cain. (Crown Publishing) Introverts &#8212; one-third of the population &#8212; are undervalued in American society. 141528AUSCHWITZ, by Miklos Nyiszli. (Skyhorse) An eyewitness account of the Nazi death camp, written shortly after the war by a doctor who was a prisoner there. 151416CATHERINE THE GREAT, by Robert K. Massie. (Random House Publishing) The life of the minor 18th-century German princess who became Empress of All the Russias. 161757THE IMMORTAL LIFE OF HENRIETTA LACKS, by Rebecca Skloot. (Crown Publishing) The story of an African-American woman whose cancerous cells were extensively cultured without her permission in 1951. 171642IN THE GARDEN OF BEASTS, by Erik Larson. (Crown Publishing) This portrait of Berlin during the rise of the Nazis centers on the experiences of William E. Dodd, who became the U.S. ambassador to Germany in 1933, and his daughter, Martha. 18113BRINGING UP B&#201;B&#201;, by Pamela Druckerman. (Penguin Group) An American mother discovers the principles of French parenting. 19224COMING APART, by Charles Murray. (Crown Publishing) The author of &#8220;The Bell Curve&#8221; explores the state of white America, 1960-2010, and deplores the growing gulf in values between the new upper and the new lower class. 20193HILARITY ENSUES, by Tucker Max. (Blue Heeler Books) More stories from a life of serial debauchery. 212417WHY ME?, by Sarah Burleton. (Sarah Burleton) A memoir of a childhood of physical and mental abuse beginning in first grade and continuing for years. 22183ALI IN WONDERLAND, by Ali Wentworth. (HarperCollins Publishers) A memoir from the comedian and actress. 23206AMERITOPIA, by Mark R. Levin. (Threshold Editions) A talk-show host surveys the history of utopias and warns that Americans must choose between utopianism and liberty. 242118THINKING, FAST AND SLOW, by Daniel Kahneman. (Farrar, Straus &#38; Giroux) The winner of the Nobel in economic science discusses how we make choices in business and personal life and when we can and cannot trust our intuitions. 251THE FOUNDING FATHERS RECONSIDERED, by Richard B. Bernstein. (Oxford University Press) A historian examines the contributions, flaws and virtues of the founding fathers and describes how their legacies have been interpreted.
*** EXTENDED LIST (WEB ONLY)****
26. THE BENEFIT AND THE BURDEN, by Bruce Bartlett. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
27. LIFE AS I BLOW IT, by Sarah Colonna. (Random House Publishing)
28. A STOLEN LIFE, by Jaycee Dugard. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
29. THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, by Erik Larson. (Knopf Doubleday Publishing)
30. THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Simon &#38; Schuster)
31. LADY ALMINA AND THE REAL DOWNTON ABBEY, by Fiona Countess of Carnarvon. (Broadway Books)
32. LONE SURVIVOR, by Marcus Luttrell with Patrick Robinson. (Little, Brown &#38; Company)
33. OUTLIERS, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown &#38; Company)
34. IS EVERYONE HANGING OUT WITHOUT ME?, by Mindy Kaling. (Crown Publishing)
35. MY HORIZONTAL LIFE, by Chelsea Handler. (Bloomsbury)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); HISTORY (87%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); BOOK SALES (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); RETAILERS (73%); WORLD WAR II (65%); CHRISTMAS (65%); RELIGION (64%); ARMED FORCES (63%)

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (67%); HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (53%); RANDOM HOUSE PUBLISHING GROUP LTD (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (67%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (53%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



429 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 3138 words

HEADLINE: Who Wants to Practice Medicine in A Country Where They Use Power Tools In Surgery?

BYLINE: By MATT McALLESTER

 BODY:
It was not an unusual death. Kunj Desai, a young doctor in training at University Teaching Hospital in Lusaka, Zambia, had seen many that were not so different and were equally needless. Still, this was the one that altered all his plans. ''A guy came in, and he had a stab wound,'' Desai recalled, ''and his intestines got injured.'' The operation was delayed, and the wound became infected. ''Whatever he was eating would come out of his belly,'' Desai said. A carefully managed diet would have helped the man heal, but there were no dietitians at the hospital nor any IV drips of liquid nutrients with which to feed him. ''He withered away to probably about 100 pounds when he died.'' 
The man was in his 30s, and his wife and children would have to fend for themselves. It was 2004, and Desai had worked at the chronically understaffed and underfinanced hospital for a year and a half. The hospital blood bank was often out of blood, and the lab was unreliable. The patients were often so poor that Desai would pay for private lab tests out of his own pocket. Desai came home in tears one day after being unable to save a premature baby boy. When the man with the stab wound died, the accumulation of preventable deaths -- at what was, he kept reminding himself, the best public hospital in the country -- finally became too heavy to bear.
''We were pretending to be doctors,'' Desai, who is 35, told me when we first met. This was in the cafeteria of University Hospital in Newark, and Desai was still in his surgical scrubs after a 30-hour shift. He talked about what he saw in Lusaka in the somewhat stream-of-consciousness way that war veterans sometimes speak about the battlefield. ''What was I really doing?'' he said. ''Making myself feel happy? No.''
As an idealistic, energetic young doctor, Desai imagined he would spend his career in Zambia, serving those in desperate need. But over the months at the hospital, he found himself fantasizing about another life -- as a doctor in America. And in 2004, after he finished his internship, Desai quit his job at the hospital and began studying for the exams for a training position at an American hospital. Even while he did so, he told himself that after his stint in America, he would return to Zambia. His fellow Zambians, he knew, suffer from some of the gravest health crises in the world, not least of which is that Zambia's doctors tend to leave the country and never come back. ''After completing residency training in the United States, I hope to return to Zambia and work where the need is the greatest, the rural areas,'' he wrote in a personal statement when applying for jobs in the United States in 2005. ''I am Zambian, and I am committed to improving the quality of care that fellow Zambians receive.''
Two years from now, Desai will be a fully qualified surgeon in America. He has a wife and a young daughter (he had neither when he moved to the United States), and once he's qualified, he can expect to make a very good living -- the median salary of a surgeon in New Jersey is $216,000. In the main hospital in Lusaka, where Desai worked, a surgeon makes about $24,000 a year. The uncomfortable question that Desai put to the back of his mind when he arrived in the United States has begun to resurface and trouble him: Will he really fulfill his promise to himself and his country?
As we sat in the cafeteria, I suggested that if he did return to Zambia, he might be seen as something of a returning hero. Desai is a naturally polite and courteous man, but he is also disinclined to hold back from criticizing when he finds fault. In this case, his target was himself. He looked at the table and said: ''The heroes are the guys that stayed. They didn't quit, and they didn't run away.''
In a globalized economy, the countries that pay the most and offer the greatest chance for advancement tend to get the top talent. South America's best soccer players generally migrate to Europe, where the salaries are high and the tournaments are glitzier than those in Brazil or Argentina. Many top high-tech workers from India and China move to the United States to work for American companies. And the United States, with its high salaries and technological innovation, is also the world's most powerful magnet for doctors, attracting more every year than Britain, Canada and Australia -- the next most popular destinations for migrating doctors -- combined.
The Council on Physician and Nurse Supply estimates that in 10 years, the United States could have a shortage of 200,000 doctors. Already, one in four doctors working in this country is trained in a medical school overseas (though this includes some American doctors who attended medical school outside the United States). American medical schools are producing more graduates, but many of them will become specialists who can command better pay. The demand for primary-care doctors is expected to stay high, perpetuating the demand for foreign medical graduates.
Even in the unlikely event that American medical schools produce more general practitioners, nothing but legislation would prevent American hospitals from cherry-picking the most promising young doctors the world has to offer, according to Laurie Garrett, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. ''If you can take from an applicant pool from the whole planet, why would you only take from Americans?'' Garrett said. ''For the foreseeable future, every health provider, from Harvard University's facilities all the way down to a rural clinic in the Ethiopian desert, is competing for medical talent, and the winners are those with money.''
Some of the responsibility for the migration of health care workers lies with the immigration laws in the host countries. In 1994, Senator Kent Conrad, a Democrat from North Dakota, introduced legislation that empowered states to grant waivers to foreign doctors on J-1 student visas. They could stay in the United States after finishing residencies in American hospitals if they agreed to practice in communities where doctors were in short supply. The law, which has been continually renewed by Congress, has allowed more than 8,500 foreign doctors to gain jobs in rural communities, where patients often have to drive great distances to get medical care, and in underserved cities.
For a diabetic or someone with heart disease in rural Nebraska, this is unquestionably a good thing. They may be unaware, however, that their gain is a poor country's loss. The migration of doctors and nurses from poor countries to rich ones elicits some highly emotional responses, not to mention a great deal of ethical debate. Writing in the British medical journal The Lancet in 2008, a group of doctors, several of them from Africa, titled their paper ''Should Active Recruitment of Health Workers From Sub-Saharan Africa Be Viewed as a Crime?'' (PDF) They concluded that it should. Other critics have used terms like ''looting'' and ''theft.''
Some of the anger is directed toward the doctors who leave. The managing director of University Teaching Hospital in Lusaka, Lackson Kasonka, suggested to me that doctors who received government financing for their educations and then left exhibited ''a show of dishonesty and betrayal.'' (Desai is not in this group; his parents, who immigrated to Zambia, paid for his medical education in India, where they were born.) Peter Mwaba, the most senior civil servant in Zambia's ministry of health, said that doctors overseas should not ''hold their country to ransom'' by staying away until things, in their minds, sufficiently improve.
The public health challenges in Zambia are intimidating: life expectancy is 46, more than one million of Zambia's 14 million people are living with H.I.V. or AIDS and more than 1 in 10 children will die before they reach 5. To cope with this, there are slightly more than 600 doctors working in the public sector, which is where most Zambians get their health care. That is 1 doctor for every 23,000 people, compared with about 1 for every 416 in the United States. If Desai decides to stay here, the world's richest country will have gained a bright young doctor. The loss to Zambia will be much greater.
Salaries and working conditions in a country like Zambia are never going to match those in the United States, but there are other factors that influence a person's decision to emigrate: family ties, the cost of living, language and the comforting sense of living in a familiar culture. Doctors from Ghana once fled to the United States almost as a matter of course. But its retention rates of doctors and nurses in recent years have greatly improved as salaries rose enough to weigh the scales in favor of staying.
The medical brain drain from poor countries gets a fair amount of attention in international health circles, and initiatives both private and public are trying to resolve the shortage of doctors. The teaching hospital in Lusaka where Desai trained, for example, is one of 13 sub-Saharan medical schools receiving support from a United States-financed $130 million program to generate more and better graduates. The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria provided money to Zambia's ministry of health to recruit and retain doctors. Western aid agencies, many financed by donors like Bill and Melinda Gates, have also hired local doctors at higher salaries. But apparent solutions can create further problems; many of the doctors hired by aid agencies are doing research. They don't see patients. Frustrated public health officials in Zambia and other developing countries call this the ''internal brain drain.''
George Ofori-Amanfo, a Ghanaian associate professor of pediatric cardiology at Duke Children's Hospital in Durham, N.C., is involved with the Ghana Physicians and Surgeons Foundation, whose members, based in the United States, work to improve graduate education in Ghana's four medical schools. He makes three trips a year to Ghana to teach young doctors. ''I do feel guilty sometimes,'' said Ofori-Amanfo, who came to the United States in 1995, when he was 30. About 530 Ghanaian doctors practiced in the United States in 2006, which amounted to about 20 percent of the doctors left in Ghana, according to an article in The New England Journal of Medicine. Ofori-Amanfo, for one, doesn't think he'll ever return for good.
''Particularly when I look at the investment that the nation had put in me to give me my basic training and what the nation would have expected me to contribute,'' Ofori-Amanfo said. ''There's a lot of guilt in that. Some cocoa farmer worked very hard to pay his taxes so I can go to school.''
Had Kunj Desai stayed in Zambia, his experience might have looked like that of his old friend Emmanuel Makasa. An orthopedic surgeon, Makasa is 38 and earns about $24,000 a year. He does some work in private clinics for extra money. Makasa is something of an authority on the emigration of doctors. ''The human-resource crisis in Zambia has reached a disastrous stage with the health system at breaking point,'' Makasa wrote in a 2008 paper in The Medical Journal of Zambia (PDF), though he has no harsh words for his colleagues who left. He studied at the University of Alabama, Birmingham, on a Fulbright scholarship and also took and passed the first of two exams the British require of international medical graduates seeking jobs there. He told me that he had been tempted to emigrate permanently.
But during his time living in the United States and visiting Britain, he felt subtle racism. He hated the weather in Britain and found Zambian doctor friends living stressful lives in undesirable parts of the country. And he knew the difference a single surgeon in Zambia could make. So his American wife and their two daughters moved to Zambia at the end of 2010.
''There are very few doctors in this part of the world,'' Makasa told me, ''and if you left, yeah, it means you have a better life. Yes, you get more money. Yes, but you can't enjoy a meal when you know your mother is hungry.''
In 2005, Makasa and his colleagues set up Doctors Outreach Care International, which provides medical care to underprivileged communities and is financed by corporate sponsors. ''I don't stay in Zambia because of lack of opportunities to go,'' Makasa said. ''I stay in Zambia because of what I think I can do in Zambia.''
I wanted to tell Desai what it would be like to practice in his old hospital, so I observed Makasa and a colleague fix a man's broken leg. In the operating theater, there was a dirty-looking scalpel blade on the floor. The assisting staff ambled in late, causing the operation to start 30 minutes behind schedule. The air-conditioner was broken. A nurse took two personal cellphone calls in the operating room. When it came time for the surgeon to drill holes in the patient's bones, a nurse produced a case containing a Bosch power drill. By way of sterilization, she wrapped it in a green cloth, binding it tight with a strip of muslin.
Doctors at University Teaching Hospital do their best to improvise, as Desai once did, to make sick people well again, even if it is with an off-the-shelf power tool. And there have been some significant material improvements at the hospital since Desai left. Makasa took me to the intensive-care unit, where a doctor from Uzbekistan was supervising the installation of monitors, ventilators and electrically operated beds that any modern hospital would be happy to own, all donated by the Japanese government. Much of the equipment in the operating theaters was new, and the theaters themselves were being renovated. The hospital had a new M.R.I. machine, a new CT scanner and new dialysis machines. What it does not have -- what can't be donated -- is enough doctors.
I stopped by the neonatal-intensive-care unit, which many years earlier drove Kunj Desai to tears. Desai stayed up all night manually pumping air into a baby's lungs, because there was no available ventilator. The next night, he returned to find that the baby had disappeared from the ward. He did not ask about the boy's fate, but surmised that the doctor who followed him on duty had not been able to continue ventilating the boy by hand. I looked around at the dozens of babies in the unit. There were three new ventilators, also donated by the Japanese, but none were plugged in; the staff had not yet been trained to use them. I asked Jackie Banda, the doctor in charge of the unit that day, how long the unit had been without ventilators. ''We've had none for the last two to three years,'' she said.
Kasonka, the managing director of the hospital, said that he didn't blame Desai for leaving to pursue his surgical education. As we spoke in his office, I told him that Desai wanted to become a laparoscopic surgeon. At that, Kasonka sat forward in his chair with interest. Zambia, he said, had no surgeons performing this less-invasive surgery, though the Netherlands had recently donated a laparoscope.
''If I have to say something to Dr. Desai, it is: 'Hey, Dr. Desai, I know you have now acquired extra skills in surgery including laparoscopy,' '' Kasonka said. ''I have got a state-of-the-art laparoscope -- please come back and practice.' You see, he will pack up his bags and come back.''
When I returned from Lusaka last May, I went to visit Desai at his home in Jersey City. Desai's wife, Bhavana, a pharmacist who also is Zambian of Indian descent, and their 17-month-old daughter, Kaiya, greeted me at the door of the town house they rent in a gated community that sits on Newark Bay, across from the airport. Some relatives were visiting from England, and we discussed the trying times of Liverpool, the soccer team Desai supports. Desai turned up a few minutes later, in scrubs, after a 14-hour shift.
Like Ofori-Amanfo, Desai feels a strong need to help his country. ''It is still my homeland,'' he told me when we first met. ''It is still where I plan to die. I have spots picked out where I plan to retire.'' In the course of our conversations, I noticed an unmistakable look of anger pass over Desai's face sometimes, and I suspected his anger was directed in several directions at once: at the failings of his own country, at the inequities of the globalized economy, at himself. We in the West create the demand for his talents and are the beneficiaries. The first doctor to look after my son was a Nigerian pediatrician, whose country suffers from a chronic shortage of doctors and who could, presumably, help many more children in more dire need there.
In our conversations and e-mail, Desai seemed to be exploring a way to go home. He's an only child who worries about abandoning his parents in their last years, and he wants Kaiya to grow up as a Zambian, not as an American. But he despairs of the public health system in Zambia and can't stomach the idea of catering to the wealthy in the private sector. He talked of returning to open up his own private clinic, which would serve everyone, not just the wealthy. Or perhaps he could work for a foreign aid agency there, he said.
Desai's enthusiasm for each alternative, however, seemed limited and fleeting -- as if he recognized that his contradictory desires were never going to be fully resolved. ''I'm so caught up in my day-to-day stuff,'' he said. ''It'll be 30 years from now, and I'll wake up, and I'll be like, 'Whatever happened to my idea of going back?' ''
I wondered if he would be at all encouraged to change his plans based on what I found at the teaching hospital. We sat in front of my computer at his dining table. He drank a beer while I showed him photographs of the hospital and told him what I found there. He was pleasantly surprised by the images of the newly equipped I.C.U., the renovated operating theaters and dialysis machines, and he was disheartened by my photographs of packed wards and accounts of broken elevators and the unplugged ventilators at the neonatal unit.
I showed him photographs of the Bosch power drill in action.
''Oh, it's fantastic,'' he said, laughing, appreciative of his former colleagues' resourcefulness. ''That's fantastic.'' He noted that the power drill was in fact a big step forward from the manual drills he used when he worked at the hospital.
When I told him about Kasonka's new laparoscope and the managing director's offer to give Desai full access to it if he chose to return, he was surprised.
''Interesting, interesting,'' he said. ''Wow. That's crazy.''
But his surprise almost instantly gave away to skepticism. ''Sounds great, but, yeah, we'll go back, and how long will that work?'' Desai found it hard to believe that the laparoscope and other equipment required for keyhole surgery would be properly looked after. He took a gulp from his bottle of beer. ''The fundamental flaws and root causes are there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Kunj Desai at University Hospital in Newark. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFFREY STOCKBRIDGE) (MM43) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (75%); NUTRITION (75%); WOUND CARE (73%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (68%); BLOOD BANKS (67%); VETERANS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ZAMBIA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



430 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4515 words

HEADLINE: Everybody Wants a Piece of Nerlens Noel

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
EVERETT, Mass. -- Nerlens Noel is a 6-foot-10 basketball star considered the best prospect from the Boston area since Patrick Ewing. He is the top-ranked high school senior in the country, and hailed as the best shot blocker of his generation. The 17-year-old son of working-class Haitian immigrants, he could be worth $10 million in about 16 months when he is eligible for the 2013 N.B.A draft.
His college choices have narrowed to some of the elite programs in the country: Kentucky, Syracuse, North Carolina, Georgetown and Connecticut.
All make the future seem blindingly bright for Noel. But in the shadowy world of recruiting, it is rarely that simple. The pursuit of Noel includes not just college coaches hoping for a star on the court. There are also fringe figures hoping to latch on to a player seemingly viewed more as a commodity than as a teenager. 
''I feel like the kid is a piece of meat right now, and he's going to be used,'' said George Wright-Easy, one of the numerous adults who have mentored Noel over the years. ''Grown men are fighting over a kid.''
Those tied on some level with Noel's recruitment include a former Providence assistant who has been barred from visiting Noel's prep school, an unemployed high school football coach, a prominent coach of a summer basketball team in Boston, Noel's high school coach, a former star recruit who believes his career was derailed by bad advice and a low-level N.B.A. agent who works for the group that represents LeBron James, Creative Artists Agency.
The scramble to get close to Noel underscores how important it is to be associated with an elite high school recruit. For a coach, it may mean a lucrative job. For an agent, the hope is big money once the player reaches the N.B.A. For a player like Noel, however, it can mean a cacophony of voices, people with motives of their own. Choosing whom to listen to could mean the difference between a future filled with N.B.A. riches or a tale discussed in muted tones along the recruiting trail.
If Nerlens Noel is the first player selected in the 2013 N.B.A. draft, as the Web site Draft Express currently projects, he should receive a contract of about $20 million. If he is among the top 10 picks, he can expect a deal worth at least $10 million.
And that does not include endorsements, which could be lucrative for a player who has nearly 14,000 followers on Twitter and an account -- @NerlensHighTop -- dedicated to his box-top Afro hairstyle. All that attention is a long way from Noel's humble beginnings in the tight-knit community of Everett, Mass., on the outskirts of Boston. Dorcina and Yonel Noel immigrated to the area from Haiti in 1990, and friends of the family say they initially worked at cleaning jobs at a local hospital. The four Noel children, perhaps not knowing any better, would tell friends their father was a doctor.
Noel and his older brothers, Jim and Rodman, spent their afternoons in the Everett High School gym, playing basketball with the son of the school's longtime football and basketball coach, John DiBiaso. After their games, DiBiaso would sometimes buy them Gatorade or maybe a Chicken McNugget value meal at McDonald's.
With Noel's parents working long hours and rarely attending school activities or sporting events, the community helped raise the Noel children. Parents of friends chipped in to provide cleats, baseball gloves and registration fees for youth sports. Someone always found them a ride to practice or a game.
Lenny Parsons, a youth coach whose son played with the Noel boys, gave one of his winter coats to Nerlens, who was wearing adult sizes when he was in junior high. Parsons learned Creole phrases -- ''ak pase?'' means ''what's up?'' -- and knew Noel so well that he kept Cheez-Its, Noel's favorite snack, at his home and jokingly demanded that Noel keep his sneakers on during visits because his feet smelled. When Noel had academic problems in seventh grade, administrators asked Parsons to help.
Parsons coached Noel on youth travel basketball teams. Even then, he noticed rival coaches sizing up his star player and attempting to poach him.
''There have been people trying to use him since the fourth or fifth grade,'' said Parsons, who works at a Budweiser distribution plant and has a son who plays football at Princeton.
Noel's older brothers were multisport stars at Everett High and earned football scholarships; Jim will be a senior at Boston College next season and Rodman a sophomore at North Carolina State. But early on, Nerlens focused on basketball.
''Nerlens is his own man, and he's been that way for years,'' said Errol Randolph, who worked as an unassigned teacher at Everett High and has advised all three Noel brothers. ''Since he was in eighth grade, he pretty much went by the beat of his own drum. He don't answer to no one.''
When Noel decided to leave Everett at the end of his sophomore year and attend the private Tilton School in New Hampshire, the move surprised the community and created hurt feelings. Some in Everett say that decision came after a meeting of the sort that can involve star players, even well before they approach college. At the meeting were Noel; his mother; Randolph, the teacher; and two former volunteers for the prominent local amateur team Noel played for, Chris Driscoll and Reggie Saladin.
Driscoll had known the Noel family since Nerlens was 10, first coaching Jim Noel. Driscoll had steered other players from lower-income backgrounds to Tilton and other prep schools. At the meeting with Noel, Saladin, the other former volunteer, was given an essential task: he translated for Dorcina Noel, the Haitian immigrant trying to decide what was best for her son.
Randolph said some in Everett blamed him for Noel's leaving, but he insisted Noel made the best decision for his future.
''They felt like I made him to go Tilton, but if it was my kid and he could get a $60,000 education for free, I'd let my kid go there,'' Randolph said of the school, which has an annual tuition of $47,600.
Noel did not discuss his decision with coaches or administrators at Everett. Suddenly, the kid who had grown up in the Everett gym and been embraced by the community was gone. He would not be graduating from the high school that his brothers Jim and Rodman starred for before heading off to college.
It is not clear how much say Noel's parents, who are now separated, have in their son's college decision. His father, Yonel, drives a cab in the Boston area, and Nerlens Noel recently told ESPN.com that his mother, Dorcina, can no longer work two jobs at the hospital because of back problems.
DiBiaso said he had placed a call to Georgetown during Noel's sophomore year, believing the Hoyas were a possible destination for Noel because of the team's successful history of developing big men like Patrick Ewing, Alonzo Mourning and Dikembe Mutombo and the university's strong academics. Yet, DiBiaso said that a rift developed between him and the Noel family after he made the call, perhaps an early sign of others attempting to influence the young star.
''The big thing I echoed to the parents when I did speak with them was that I've been here 33 years; I'm not looking for anything,'' DiBiaso said. ''I'm going to be here when I retire or hopefully until I die. I don't need anything. I'm not looking for anything but what's best for Nerlens.''
He let out a long sigh and said, ''They chose a different tack and we lost touch.''
Noel declined to speak to a reporter from The New York Times when he was approached for comment.
The Everett High principal, Louis Baldi, said he was ''extremely concerned'' about Noel, and said that his recruitment reminded him of a boxer with a teeming entourage in his heyday who might find himself penniless upon retirement.
''I pray it works out for him and that the light turns on in his head,'' Baldi said of Noel. ''I pray it's not too late.''
A Questionable Climb,
And Dubious Credentials
When Providence named Chris Driscoll an assistant in the summer of 2010, the move stunned many in college basketball. Driscoll had little playing experience beyond high school, his highest basketball position to that point had been as an assistant with a prominent amateur team, and he had not graduated from a conventional college.
What Driscoll did have was access to the top players like Nerlens Noel in the Boston area, a precious commodity for Providence, which was trying to keep pace in the Big East.
Recruiting is the lifeblood of college basketball. To win, coaches need a steady stream of good players. And if a person can deliver players like that, he can often parlay that talent, rather than extensive coaching credentials, into a job as an assistant.
Driscoll, 41, is separated from his wife and has three children. Associates say his main job over the years has been running the Massachusetts-based charity Mentoring At-Risk Athletes, called MARA. Driscoll's ascension through the coaching ranks can be traced to his connection to Will Blalock, a talented young Boston-area guard in the early 2000s. Driscoll was a presence at Blalock's games before becoming a volunteer assistant for the Boston Amateur Basketball Club in 2005, said Leo Papile, the club's coach since 1977.
The Boston club is a prominent amateur team of the sort that now dominate the world of summer high school basketball and often play an outsize role in the development and recruitment of elite players. (For its part, B.A.B.C. says it does not get involved in its players' recruitment.)
Blalock was the first prominent player Driscoll became close to, and after Blalock accepted a scholarship to Iowa State in 2003, Driscoll used him as a poster child for MARA.
A photograph of Blalock, identifying him as an at-risk athlete, appeared on the cover of a MARA pamphlet, along with the photographs of several other talented players from the Boston Amateur club. Blalock said he received numerous major scholarship offers before meeting Driscoll.
''At risk of what?'' said Nate Thompson, a former assistant with club. ''The only thing they were at risk of was becoming great basketball players. That made me suspicious. In my opinion, he was abusing the connections.''
Papile -- who has coached players like Ewing, Chris Herren and Scoonie Penn and also worked as a scout and in the front office for the Boston Celtics for almost 15 years -- said he regretted allowing Driscoll to have access to the Boston summer team and its top players. He has since barred all B.A.B.C. volunteers from becoming involved in a player's recruitment. He calls it the Chris Driscoll Rule.
''He's a great disappointment to me,'' Papile said of Driscoll. ''I thought he had wanted to be a coach, but it appears that his primary object was to be a handler. He's not a teacher, he's not a coach.''
He added, ''Bluntly, you're dealing with the worst guy I've ever known in this game.''
But Driscoll also had supporters from his time with the Boston summer team. Pernell McDaniel, whose son, Jamal Coombs-McDaniel, went to Tilton with the help of Driscoll and is now a junior forward for Hofstra, called Driscoll ''the best thing that happened to us.'' Alex Oriakhi Sr., whose son, Alex, also went to Tilton and is a Connecticut junior, said his son called Driscoll their ''white family member.''
Driscoll found himself in the middle of controversy during his season at Providence. Laurel Cannon, the mother of guard Gerard Coleman, called Providence administrators and claimed that her son was asked by Driscoll to fake an injury in order to lose games. The reason he asked, Cannon told Providence administrators, was so Coach Keno Davis would be fired and Driscoll could take over.
Coleman refused Driscoll's request, his mother said, sending him a text message that said ''the man in me'' would not allow him do that.
''No one wants someone to see their child used as a product; no one does,'' Cannon said. ''He had us fooled. He really had us fooled.''
She informed Providence's athletic director, Bob Driscoll, of Chris Driscoll's request, but Bob Driscoll, who is not related, said he investigated and did not find reason to take any action.
''I took what his mother said very, very seriously,'' Bob Driscoll said. ''If that happened, it's a fireable offense. Chris denied it and said it was a misunderstanding, and we moved on from there. I can't tell you whether it happened or not.''
After multiple phone conversations, Driscoll said his lawyer advised him to say, ''I vehemently deny all of the allegations.'' He declined further comment.
Bob Driscoll was primarily responsible for hiring Chris Driscoll at Providence. He identified him as a candidate and suggested him as a possible assistant to Davis. Chris Driscoll received a multiyear contract, which is not standard for assistants.
One of the lines on Chris Driscoll's resume appeared to be dubious but apparently did not raise suspicion at Providence. He claimed to be a 1996 graduate of Amhurst University. Two of the country's leading experts on fraudulent schools, the Illinois professor George Gollin and the former F.B.I. agent Allen Ezell, said that the apparently now-defunct Amhurst University, which billed itself as a distance learning center, was a diploma mill, essentially a school that awards a degree for money rather than the actual completion of coursework.
Gollin said that if Providence had investigated, it would have taken it little time to determine Amhurst's illegitimacy. (A phone call placed to the number listed on Amhurst University's Web site went directly to voice mail, and a message left received no response.)
Bob Driscoll said that Chris Driscoll passed a background check and that he was subject to the typical human resources review. Chris Driscoll also contended in his biography that he had an interim coaching record of 97-2 and won eight national championships with the Boston summer team, numbers that Papile said were exaggerated. Officials from a Massachusetts-based charity that Driscoll was involved with, Community Teamwork Inc., laughed when told that he claimed he raised $10 million; they said the actual figure was less than $100,000.
''If I had thought or learned that he didn't have a degree or had surreptitious things on his resume, we never would have hired him,'' Bob Driscoll said. ''I was under the impression he had a degree and it was legitimate.''
Chris Driscoll had a strong relationship with Noel before he was hired by Providence, helping to steer him from Everett to Tilton. Just days before he took the Providence job, Driscoll drove to the house of Tilton Coach Marcus O'Neil in Eliot, Me. According to O'Neil, Driscoll told him that he thought Davis would be fired at the end of the season and that Driscoll felt he had a chance to replace him.
''He told me that he thought he was going to be the next coach at Providence College and that I could be his assistant,'' O'Neil said. ''All I had to do was help him to get Nerlens Noel to commit to Providence College.''
O'Neil rebuffed Driscoll, but it was not the last time he was approached. After Driscoll had been fired by Providence along with the rest of Davis's staff in the spring of 2011, he met O'Neil at a pizza restaurant in Tilton.
''Nerlens is my last chance,'' O'Neil recalled Driscoll saying. ''I need to score, and I need to score big.''
O'Neil said Driscoll added, ''You're either with me or against me on this.''
A Young Player
Who Had Seen It Before
Will Blalock met Chris Driscoll at a street-ball tournament after Blalock's sophomore year of high school. Driscoll introduced himself as someone who ran a charity for at-risk athletes. Blalock did not think much of the encounter until a secretary at his high school called him soon after to say Driscoll wanted his phone number. Blalock told her to pass it along.
Thus began a relationship that would define and perhaps undo Blalock's basketball career. Long before Nerlens Noel, Blalock embodied some of the same qualities -- an elite player for B.A.B.C. who was considered one of the country's top 100 prospects. Blalock struggled academically but drew interest from a number of major college teams. Blalock grew close to Driscoll, who steered him to Notre Dame Prep, 60 miles outside Boston, to help with his grades and eventually took over his recruiting process.
Blalock said programs like Memphis, U.C.L.A and Pittsburgh were interested in him. He said he liked Connecticut best, however, as it was close to home and he wanted to play for a coach like Jim Calhoun.
But when it came time to choose a college team in 2003, Blalock listened to Driscoll and went to Iowa State, then enjoying success under Coach Larry Eustachy. Nearly a decade later, Blalock regrets the decision.
''When I was 16 or 17, I might have said he's helping me out,'' Blalock said. ''But at 28, he may have hurt me more than he helped me. I know what kind of guy he is now. He burns a lot of bridges.''
Blalock said he believed that Driscoll sold him to Iowa State, although he stressed he had no proof. When Iowa State fired Eustachy in the spring of 2003, Blalock said, Driscoll instructed him to call the athletic director, Bruce Van De Velde, and say he would attend another university unless Iowa State hired the assistant Wayne Morgan as Eustachy's replacement. Morgan was hired, Blalock kept his commitment and Blalock said Driscoll visited Ames about four times a season. (A spokesman at Hofstra, where Morgan now works as an assistant, said Morgan could not be reached for comment.)
''I don't like to live with regret, but every now and then, I do regret going there,'' Blalock said. ''When it was time to make my decision with the N.B.A., even though my numbers were better than the guys in my class at point guard, all of them went to bigger-name schools and got picked ahead of me.''
Blalock, who left Iowa State after his junior season, also said Driscoll guided him to an agent he did not want to sign with, the Boston-based Frank Catapano.
Blalock was the final pick of the second round of the 2006 draft. He has played just 14 N.B.A. games and may never play another after having a stroke a few years ago. He is currently attempting a comeback with the Reno Bighorns of the N.B.A.'s Development League.
During Blalock's time in the N.B.A., he said, Driscoll helped to pay his bills after Blalock gave him restricted access to his bank account. Blalock said he was not angry at the thought that Driscoll had made money off him as much as was angry that the money he believed Driscoll made from steering him to Iowa State had not been shared with him and his family.
''We never got nothing from him,'' Blalock said. ''There were times I'd have to ask drug dealers in my neighborhood to get a plane ticket home from college.''
Blalock said he stopped talking with Driscoll after he pushed him to sign with Catapano. Catapano denied paying to get Blalock as a client and said that he had never received a fee from Blalock for getting him a guaranteed rookie contract, the only one of his career. Catapano said he donated money to MARA years later when Driscoll asked, but only a small amount.
''I can tell you unequivocally that Chris Driscoll did not get anything from me because I signed Will Blalock,'' Catapano said. ''I'm not one of the whores that chases after the kids in college. I don't take care of kids in high school.''
The Unmistakable
Influence of Agents
Agents have become an indelible part of college sports in the last two decades, with so-called runners, who do not have formal ties to agencies, given the awkward job of growing close to top teenage players like Noel or the people around them. Although the N.C.A.A. has tried to create rules to inhibit agents' access to high school players, the presence of agents and financial planners aiming to align themselves with top prospects has become commonplace.
The involvement of agents at the high school level has become so sophisticated, the notion that schools and boosters pay for players to join their teams has become somewhat antiquated. It is more common now for agents to cut a deal with people associated with a player and find a school that will protect him from other agents. In some cases, an agent will offer a high school player to a college in exchange for signing one of the talented players who is ready to leave and enter the draft.
Agents also carefully and discreetly try to influence people who have the ear of top prospects. Papile, the coach of the Boston summer team, said he had received calls from about eight agents regarding Noel, with many of their questions related to when he would decide to become a professional. Noel, who was originally expected to graduate from high school next year, announced last month that he would attempt to graduate this spring.
If he does not qualify academically for college, he could spend a year playing professionally in Europe.
For George Wright-Easy, an unassigned teacher at Everett High School, he saw the interest of agents in Noel up close more than a year ago while at a trendy Boston nightclub called Rumor. A mutual friend introduced Wright-Easy to Ty Sullivan, a low-level agent for Creative Artists Agency, which represents star athletes and actors like Will Smith.
Wright-Easy is the half-brother of a former Penn State tailback, Omar Easy, and Sullivan immediately began dropping the names of former Nittany Lions standouts into conversation, along with basketball stars like James.
Sullivan eventually said, ''Your guy is going to be the truth.''
A confused Wright-Easy asked, ''Who?'' When Sullivan said, ''Nerlens,'' Wright-Easy responded indignantly, ''Man, he's like 15 years old.''
Wright-Easy said that he did not consider Sullivan a threat to Noel. A low-level agent like Sullivan, who handles mostly players in the European and development leagues, is unlikely to land a potential big name like Noel. And he is probably one of many agents and their associates who are trying to become involved with Noel's recruitment.
When reached on his cellphone, Sullivan acknowledged following Noel but denied any relationship with him. (Papile, who spoke with Sullivan at one of Noel's games, said that Sullivan also denied any affiliation with Driscoll).
Whether Sullivan or C.A.A., which also represents Kentucky Coach John Calipari, will become a significant factor in Noel's agent recruitment is not known. But Sullivan's presence and attempt to ingratiate himself with someone close to Noel is illustrative of the increasing presence of agents at the high school level.
''Going to a local high school game is, you know, I don't think is a problem,'' Sullivan said. He declined further comment.
A Venerable School
Turned Powerhouse
With its looming oak trees, elegant brick buildings and a history dating to 1845, the campus of Tilton School exudes the serenity of Norman Rockwell's New England. But the last few months have been anything but tranquil for Tilton, which has a reputation for sending students to well-regarded universities in the Northeast and elsewhere.
Tilton has also become a national power in basketball, and Chris Driscoll is one of the people most responsible. Seven players on Tilton's roster this season are from B.A.B.C. and he had steered several prominent players there in previous years.
For a time, the relationship between Tilton and Driscoll was mutually beneficial. The players that Driscoll steered to Tilton used their time at the school to qualify academically so they could play for the colleges of their choice. They also helped Tilton become an increasingly powerful basketball school nationally. Before, Tilton had been a middling performer on the prep school level. Now, while still mainly playing other schools in New England, Tilton has become a recognized team around the country.
It was not until Noel arrived that O'Neil, Tilton's coach, and others at the school began to feel uncomfortable with the association.
Noel originally entered Tilton to repeat his sophomore year. (He had cracked a growth plate in his knee while warming up for a game with Everett.) After his knee healed and he became a coveted prospect, Noel decided to try to graduate from Tilton this year instead of in 2013. Tilton was annoyed by the decision, but Noel stuck to it and remained at the school for what will be his final high school season.
For his part, Driscoll is no longer welcome at the school.
Tilton's headmaster, Jim Clements, declined to comment directly on Driscoll, whose son, Jeremy, attended Tilton as a postgraduate. But he did say it was his first time in his 14 years on campus that he had barred anyone from the school because of a relationship to an athlete. Still, Driscoll has maintained contact with Noel and acted as a liaison to college recruiters and some members of the news media about his recruitment.
O'Neil -- who arrived at Tilton in 2004, works as a college counselor at the school and has a master's degree in social work -- stressed that school policy prevented him from speaking directly about Noel.
''I don't think his primary focus is a student's well-being,'' O'Neil said of Driscoll.
From a basketball standpoint, Noel is considered raw offensively. He is not comfortable playing with his back to the basket and, at 215 pounds, the lanky Noel still seems a long way from being able to handle the physicality of the N.B.A. Still, it is believed he can make an immediate and significant defensive impact on the college level. Noel's unusual skill set makes it difficult to compare him to another player, though some mention the former N.B.A. All-Star Shawn Kemp when discussing Noel.
Until this weekend, when Noel is scheduled to go on an official visit to Georgetown, he has had to pay for his visits to college campuses. He flew to Kentucky and Louisville on separate unofficial trips that Randolph and Wright-Easy said Noel's father paid for. Clements said the school had had extensive discussions with Noel and his mother about the difference between official and unofficial visits and how to ''not engage in behavior that would create a violation'' of N.C.A.A. rules.
Papile said he considered this a lost year for Noel in terms of his basketball development.
''In my opinion, he's given up this year because of bad advice,'' Papile said.
In a recent game, Noel wore pink shoes, played out of position at point guard for long stretches and seemed to complain to the referees more than talk to his teammates. He rarely attempted to score inside.
For some who have watched him for a long time, Noel's game seems to have stagnated, perhaps an outward sign of how the atmosphere surrounding his recruitment has affected him.
''The risk to him is that through poor choices on his part or his family's part,'' Clements said, ''he would jeopardize the potential to participate in a college program with integrity and that would be of concern were that to be the case.''
Online Correction: March 10, 2012, Saturday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of a Web summary on this article said incorrectly that Nerlens Noel was from Boston, rather than Everett, Mass.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KELLY KLINE/GETTY IMAGES) (SP1)
Nerlens Noel warming up for a game last month at Tilton Academy, where he is a senior. At least one Web site projects the 6-foot-10 Noel as the top pick in the 2013 N.B.A. draft.
Chris Driscoll, far left, a basketball operator, steered Noel to Tilton
Ty Sullivan, an agent for Creative Artists Agency, predicted big things for Noel
and Jim Clements, the headmaster of Tilton Academy, said he tried to counsel Noel and his family. Below, Noel with Tilton teammates. (SP6)
Nerlens Noel with a young fan last month after a recent Tilton game. Noel has a well-followed Twitter account dedicated to his box-top Afro. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHERYL SENTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Nerlens Noel defending the basket against Brewster Academy. Noel is recognized as a gifted shot blocker, but over all, his skills are considered to be raw. Some compare him to the former All-Star Shawn Kemp. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL SHETTLE/CAL SPORT MEDIA, VIA A.P. IMAGES) (SP7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (89%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (63%)

COMPANY: CREATIVE ARTISTS AGENCY INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711110 THEATER COMPANIES & DINNER THEATERS (53%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (57%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (57%); CONNECTICUT, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



431 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; GENEVA MOTOR SHOW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Looking for a Ray of Light In Europe's Clouds of Gloom

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
GENEVA
EVEN before its official opening, mixed messages emerged from the 2012 Geneva Motor Show.
Last Monday, ahead of two days of press previews, the title of 2012 Car of the Year was awarded to the Opel Ampera and its American-market twin, the Chevrolet Volt. The honors for General Motors' plug-in hybrids came just days after production of the Volt had been suspended for five weeks because of slow sales; European deliveries of the Impera began only in February.
The Volt's disappointing sales may well have put knots in the stomachs of several automakers that introduced plug-in models here. While the featured products demonstrated the makers' commitment to building greener, more frugal cars, it was less certain that customers were ready to buy them. 
The show, which runs through March 18 at the Palexpo convention center, takes place amid deepening doubts about Europe's economy. Even the winter dished up punishment, with record cold in January and February adding to the Continent's pain.
But new models from Europe's budget carmakers, including Volkswagen's Seat subsidiary and Renault's Dacia, were eagerly received. Optimism reigned at Hyundai and Kia, and luxury brands reported strong, sometimes record-setting sales. There was less cheer at midmarket makes like Citroen, Fiat, Ford, Opel and Peugeot, all of which seem to be squeezed from above and below.
Here is a look at some of the significant new offerings shown in Geneva:
AUDI After nearly a decade, Audi has finally gotten around to a redesign, however mild, of its A3 entry-level luxury model. The two-door hatchback shown here is not expected to make it to the United States; instead, a four-door sedan will arrive in about two years.
BENTLEY Despite booming sales, Bentley and its Volkswagen bosses want more, so the answer is to expand into the utility segment. The EXP F9 concept, an imposing all-wheel-drive crossover, is likely to reach production, though perhaps without the 6-liter W-12 engine in the concept model.
BMW The handsome new 6 Series Gran Coupe -- a four-door, despite its name -- is BMW's long-awaited and late-to-market answer to the Audi A7 and the Mercedes-Benz CLS. The 6-cylinder 640i version, starting at $76,895, arrives early this summer.
CHEVROLET The station wagon version of the Cruze compact sedan is meant to appeal to Europe's sizable market of wagon lovers. Chevrolet said it had no plans to offer the wagon in the United States, fearing that it might cut into sales of the Equinox crossover.
FERRARI The Italian supercar company displayed the F12 Berlinetta, its replacement for the 599 GTB Fiorano. With a headline-making V-12 engine of 730 horsepower, the F12 is intended to preserve the brand's performance leadership; the company said the F12 posted the fastest lap times of any Ferrari road car at the Fiorano test track.
FIAT Help is on the way for the little 500 in the form of a stretched ''L'' (for large) version. The addition of two doors seriously impairs the cuteness of the egglike two-door model, but help is needed in Europe, where the reborn 500 has been out since 2007, and in North America, where sales have been slow.
FORD The B-Max is a Fiesta-based microvan with sliding doors providing unfettered access to the second row of seats. Ford's structural wizards created a body that has no B-pillar behind the front doors, incorporating the pillars into the rear doors. The B-Max should find a solid market in Europe, but the deciders in Dearborn have elected not to bring this model to the United States.
HYUNDAI The I-Oniq concept was one of several hybrids introduced here with a practical electric-only range -- 74 miles -- extended by a gasoline engine-generator once the battery runs low. Production prospects are slim, but the car continues Hyundai's string of boldly styled design studies.
INFINITI The Emerg-E design study, another variation of the plug-in hybrid layout, may be so gorgeous that buyers won't care what actually powers it. The midengine sport coupe is driven by a pair of electric motors that together produce about 400 horsepower. When the 16 kilowatt-hour battery fades, a 3-cylinder Lotus engine generates the needed electricity.
JAGUAR The Sportbrake is another Eurowagon destined to be a no-show in North America. Somewhat boxy compared with the shapely XF sedan on which it's based, the wagon body acquits itself with cargo capacity of 59 cubic feet.
LAND ROVER The idea of cutting the top off the rakish Evoque sport utility may seem frivolous to some, but Land Rover seems to think its demographic of rugged individuals is starved for the opportunity of topless motoring. The result is the Evoque Convertible Concept, the answer to a question that someone, apparently, was asking.
MERCEDES-BENZ When it was introduced in 1997, many critics questioned whether the A-Class compact belonged in the Mercedes model line at all. But the car has sold fairly well. Now Mercedes has decided the A-Class is worthy of a redesign, making it a likely prospect for the United States market, where it would compete against models like the BMW 1 Series.
PORSCHE The Boxster has been so successful as an entry-level model for Porsche that memories of awkward earlier designs like the 914 have almost faded. A smartly restyled third-generation version of the Boxster, borrowing design cues and technology from the brand's top models, made its official debut here to general acclaim.
TOYOTA For its next generation of hybrids, Toyota is aiming for huge fuel economy gains. The FT-Bh concept car is a futuristic take on a Yaris-size vehicle with a 1-liter engine, lithium-ion batteries and a flyweight structure. It would, the company said, achieve the equivalent of up to 112 m.p.g.
VOLKSWAGEN More plug-in hybrid technology was on display here in the form of the Cross Coupe concept, a diesel-electric variation of the gas-electric design study shown in Tokyo last year. VW also unveiled a delectable Golf-based GTI convertible that it said would not be offered in the United States.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 18, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about the Geneva Motor Show misspelled the name of the Opel plug-in hybrid that shared Europe's Car of the Year award with the Chevrolet Volt. It is the Ampera, not Impera.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WISH LIST: The GTI Cabriolet, introduced with a youthful scrum and VW's giant-screen display, is not for America
below, Infiniti's Emerg-E concept. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VALENTIN FLAURAUD/REUTERS (VOLKSWAGEN AND INFINITI))
ACT II: Fiat added two doors to its egglike minicar to create the roomier 500L. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANK AUGSTEIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (AU1)
RUNWAY STARS: Clockwise from above, the 2013 Porsche Boxster
Ferrari's F12 Berlinetta replaces the 599 GTB Fiorano
Hyundai I-Oniq, a hybrid design study
Bentley EXP F9 presages a move into the crossover market, Ford's B-Max does without a B-pillar. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRICE COFFRINI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
FERRARI, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
FRANK AUGSTEIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 SEBASTIEN FEVAL/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SEDANS (89%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (75%); BUDGETS (68%)

COMPANY: AUDI AG (83%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: NSU (FRA) (83%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2012



432 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2990 words

HEADLINE: Rethinking Solitary Confinement

BYLINE: By ERICA GOODE; Scott Shane contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
PARCHMAN, Miss. -- The heat was suffocating, and the inmates locked alone in cells in Unit 32, the state's super-maximum-security prison, wiped away sweat as they lay on concrete slab beds.
Kept in solitary confinement for up to 23 hours each day, allowed out only in shackles and escorted by guards, they were restless and angry -- made more so by the excrement-smeared walls, the insects, the filthy food trays and the mentally ill inmates who screamed in the night, conditions that a judge had already ruled unacceptable.
So it was not really surprising when violence erupted in 2007: an inmate stabbed to death with a homemade spear that May; in June, a suicide; in July, another stabbing; in August, a prisoner killed by a member of a rival gang.
What was surprising was what happened next. Instead of tightening restrictions further, prison officials loosened them. 
They allowed most inmates out of their cells for hours each day. They built a basketball court and a group dining area. They put rehabilitation programs in place and let prisoners work their way to greater privileges.
In response, the inmates became better behaved. Violence went down. The number of prisoners in isolation dropped to about 300 from more than 1,000. So many inmates were moved into the general population of other prisons that Unit 32 was closed in 2010, saving the state more than $5 million.
The transformation of the Mississippi prison has become a focal point for a growing number of states that are rethinking the use of long-term isolation and re-evaluating how many inmates really require it, how long they should be kept there and how best to move them out. Colorado, Illinois, Maine, Ohio and Washington State have been taking steps to reduce the number of prisoners in long-term isolation; others have plans to do so. On Friday, officials in California announced a plan for policy changes that could result in fewer prisoners being sent to the state's three super-maximum-security units.
The efforts represent an about-face to an approach that began three decades ago, when corrections departments -- responding to increasing problems with prison gangs, stiffer sentencing policies that led to overcrowding and the ''get tough on crime'' demands of legislators -- began removing ever larger numbers of inmates from the general population. They placed them in special prisons designed to house inmates in long-term isolation or in other types of segregation.
At least 25,000 prisoners -- and probably tens of thousands more, criminal justice experts say -- are still in solitary confinement in the United States. Some remain there for weeks or months; others for years or even decades. More inmates are held in solitary confinement here than in any other democratic nation, a fact highlighted in a United Nations report last week.
Humanitarian groups have long argued that solitary confinement has devastating psychological effects, but a central driver in the recent shift is economics. Segregation units can be two to three times as costly to build and, because of their extensive staffing requirements, to operate as conventional prisons are. They are an expense that many recession-plagued states can ill afford; Gov. Pat Quinn of Illinois announced plans late last month to close the state's supermax prison for budgetary reasons.
Some officials have also been persuaded by research suggesting that isolation is vastly overused and that it does little to reduce overall prison violence. Inmates kept in such conditions, most of whom will eventually be released, may be more dangerous when they emerge, studies suggest.
Christopher B. Epps, Mississippi's commissioner of corrections, said he found his own views changing as he fought an American Civil Liberties Union lawsuit over conditions in the prison, which one former inmate described as ''hell, an insane asylum.''
Mr. Epps said he started out believing that difficult inmates should be locked down as tightly as possible, for as long as possible.
''That was the culture, and I was part of it,'' he said.
By the end of the process, he saw things differently and ordered the changes.
''If you treat people like animals, that's exactly the way they'll behave,'' he now says.
A Very Costly Experiment
James F. Austin held up the file of an inmate in Unit 32 and posed a question to the staff members gathered in a conference room at the Mississippi Department of Corrections headquarters in Jackson.
''O.K., does this guy really need to be there?'' he asked.
It was June 2007, and the department was under pressure to make court-ordered improvements to conditions at Unit 32, where violence was brewing. Dr. Austin, a prison consultant, had been called in by the state. As the discussion proceeded, the staff members were startled to discover that many inmates in Unit 32 had been sent there not because they were highly dangerous, but because they were a nuisance -- they had disobeyed orders, had walked away from a minimum-security program or were low-level gang members with no history of causing trouble while incarcerated.
''He started saying, 'You tell me what kind of person needs to be locked up,' and it wasn't near the numbers that we had,'' said Emmitt L. Sparkman, deputy commissioner of corrections. By the time they were done, the group had determined that up to 80 percent of the 1,000 or more inmates at Unit 32 could probably be safely moved to less restrictive settings.
Like many such prisons, Mississippi's supermax, opened in 1990, owed its existence to the fervor for tougher punishment that swept through the country in the 1980s and 1990s.
''There was an incredible explosion in the prison population coupled with a big infusion of gangs,'' Dr. Austin said. ''Riots were occurring. Prison officials were literally losing control.''
Some states built special units to isolate difficult prisoners -- ''the worst of the worst,'' prison officials said -- from the general prison population. Others retrofitted existing prisons or established smaller units within larger facilities. The federal penitentiary in Marion, Ill., was locked down in 1983 after the murder of two prison guards, its inmates confined to cells 23 hours a day and then kept that way permanently. In 1989, California opened Pelican Bay State Prison in Crescent City, a remote town near the Oregon border, specially designed to control inmates in conditions that minimize human interaction.
By 2005, 44 states had supermax prisons or their equivalents. In most, inmates were let out of their cells for only a few hours a week. They were fed through slots in their cell doors and were denied access to work programs or other rehabilitation efforts. If visitors were allowed, the interactions were conducted with no physical contact.
And while prisoners had previously been sent to isolation for 10 or perhaps 30 days as a temporary disciplinary measure, they were now often placed there indefinitely.
Asked to explain the purpose of such confinement, prison wardens surveyed in 2006 by Dan Mears, a professor of criminology at Florida State University, cited ''increasing safety, order and control throughout prison systems and incapacitating violent or disruptive inmates.''
But beyond that, said Dr. Mears, who called the rise of supermax prisons ''a big, very costly experiment,'' the goals seemed murky. Who exactly were ''the worst of the worst''? How many people really needed such harsh control, and for how long? And how should the effectiveness of the prisons be judged, especially when measured against the costs of building and operating them?
Dr. Mears said there were no clear answers; indeed, he said, it is virtually impossible to determine how many inmates are in supermax prisons in the United States because there is no national tracking system and because states differ widely in what they call segregation units. ''I don't know of any business that would do this, not something that costs this much, with so little evidence or clarity about what you're getting,'' Dr. Mears said.
With no precise definition of who belonged there, prison systems began to send people to segregation units who bore little resemblance to the serial killers or terrorists the public imagined filled such prisons.
''Certainly there are a small number of people who for a variety of reasons have to be maintained in a way that they don't have access to other inmates,'' said Chase Riveland, a former head of corrections in Colorado and Washington State who now serves as an expert witness in prison cases. ''But those in most systems are pretty small numbers of people.''
Mr. Epps, who is president-elect of the American Correctional Association, likes to say prison officials started out isolating inmates they were scared of but ended up adding many they were simply ''mad at.''
'The Real Damage'
In 1831, the French historian Alexis de Tocqueville visited the Eastern State Penitentiary in Philadelphia, where prison officials were pioneering a novel rehabilitation method based on Quaker principles of reflection and penitence. They called it solitary confinement.
''Placed alone in view of his crime,'' de Tocqueville wrote in a report to the French government, the prisoner ''learns to hate it, and if his soul be not yet surfeited with crime, and thus have lost all taste for any thing better, it is in solitude, where remorse will come to assail him.''
But for many prisoners, isolation was as likely to produce mental illness as remorse, and by the late 19th century, enthusiasm for the approach had flagged. In 1890, deciding the case of a death row inmate held in solitary confinement, Justice Samuel Freeman Miller of the Supreme Court wrote that many prisoners fell, ''after even a short confinement, into a semifatuous condition, from which it was next to impossible to arouse them, and others became violently insane; others still committed suicide.''
It was the last time the nation's highest court would address the psychological effects of solitary confinement directly. But lower courts in some states have acknowledged the stress that isolation puts on inmates who are already mentally ill, prohibiting their being placed in solitary except in urgent circumstances.
When Dr. Terry Kupers, a psychiatrist and expert on the effects of solitary confinement, toured Unit 32 for the plaintiffs in the A.C.L.U. lawsuit, he found that about 100 of the more than 1,000 inmates there had serious mental illness, in many cases improperly diagnosed. Some were actively hallucinating. Others threw feces or urine at guards or howled in the night.
In turn, the mentally ill inmates were mistreated by corrections officers, who had little understanding of their condition, Dr. Kupers said.
In a report filed to the court, he described the case of James Coffield, a mentally ill prisoner who had demonstrated ''a long history in Unit 32 of bizarre and disruptive behaviors'' that prison psychiatrists ''characterized as merely 'manipulative' and which security staff punished with increasingly harsh force, including repeated gassing with chemicals.''
Mr. Coffield eventually tried to hang himself but failed and ended up in a vegetative state.
Many states continue to house inmates with mental illness in isolation. Some inmates appear to function adequately in solitary confinement or even say they prefer it. But studies suggest that the rigid control, absence of normal human interaction and lack of stimulation imposed by prolonged isolation can cause a wide range of psychological symptoms including insomnia, withdrawal, rage and aggression, depression, hallucinations and thoughts of suicide, even in prisoners who are mentally healthy to begin with.
A study of prisoners in the Pelican Bay supermax, for example, found that almost all reported nervousness, anxiety, lethargy or other psychological complaints. Seventy percent said they felt themselves to be at risk of ''impending nervous breakdown.''
''Worse still is the fact that for many of these men, the real damage only becomes apparent when they get out of this environment,'' said Craig W. Haney, a professor of psychology at the University of California, Santa Cruz, and an expert on the effects of solitary confinement, who led the study.
In fact, some research has found that inmates released from supermax units are more likely to reoffend than comparable prisoners released from conventional maximum-security prisons, and that those crimes are more likely to be violent. In Colorado, said Tom Clements, executive director of corrections, it turned out that about 40 percent of inmates held in long-term isolation were being released directly to the community with no transition period.
The psychological research has drawn attention, not least from the international community. In a report presented to the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva on Monday, Juan E. Mendez, the U.N.'s special rapporteur on torture and other abuse, called for a ban on solitary confinement except in limited situations and singled out the United States for its reliance on the method.
In 2010, the European Court of Human Rights blocked the extradition of four terrorism suspects from Britain, saying it wanted to study whether imprisonment at the federal supermax prison in Florence, Colo., violated a ban on inhuman or degrading treatment.
Yet for states, economic and practical arguments may prove more persuasive than humanitarian concerns.
''It's just exceedingly expensive to hold someone in a segregation bed,'' said Angela Browne, a senior fellow at the Vera Institute of Justice, a nonprofit policy and research group, and head of the institute's segregation reduction project, which works with states to find alternatives to segregation.
Several states, citing economic reasons, have converted supermax units to more conventional prisons, and a few have closed the prisons altogether. Unit 32 was closed in 2010. The increased costs are largely a result of the staffing required to deliver food and other services to cells and escort prisoners when they are let out.
In 2010, for example, Virginia reported that it cost $89.59 per day to keep a prisoner at Red Onion State Prison, a supermax unit with 399 employees, compared with $60.04 per day at Sussex II State Prison, a maximum-security facility that houses almost 500 more inmates but has a staff of 353.
Gambling on Change
Roy Harper, serving time for armed robbery, kidnapping and other charges, used to wake in his cell at Unit 32 seized with anxiety every morning. ''You never know what the day is going to bring,'' he said recently.
Sometimes it was flooding from malfunctioning toilets. Sometimes it was inmates setting fires or cutting themselves -- two prisoners cut off their own testicles in the time he spent there, he said -- and sometimes it was just the sense of isolation he felt, ''like being alone in the world.''
Mr. Harper was a prisoner in Unit 32 from the day it opened to the day it closed, 20 years later. But the summer of 2007, he recalled, was worse than most. When the killings began, prison officials first cracked down, taking away the inmates' fans -- the only relief from summer temperatures that approached 100 degrees and, according to an environmental expert who filed a report on the conditions, could feel like 120 or more. They kept prisoners in their cells around the clock, not even allowing them out for exercise, he said.
Mr. Sparkman, the deputy corrections commissioner, viewed the situation as so critical that in July he moved from his home in Jackson to Parchman, where Unit 32 sits on the grounds of the state penitentiary. It was clear that a different approach was needed, he said: ''What we were doing, the 23-hour lockdown, was not working.''
But the shift had to be made carefully.
''It was gradual, and it was very controlled,'' Mr. Sparkman said. ''We started out with one building, identifying those groups that we could let out, and we let some of them out. Some of them we were able to transfer completely out.''
A few guards rebelled at the new orders and resigned in protest. A few others were fired. But by the end of six months, most prisoners were spending hours a day outside their cells or had been moved to the general population of other prisons. A clothing warehouse was turned into a group dining hall, and a maintenance room was converted to an activities center. The basketball court filled with players.
Mr. Harper did not benefit immediately from the changes. He remained in 23-hour lockdown until he worked his way to greater privileges. But he was elated at what he saw, he said, with inmates ''working again, walking without chains, going to the yard, going to the chow hall.''
The A.C.L.U. continues to monitor conditions in other prisons in the state. But Margaret Winter, the lead lawyer for the A.C.L.U. in its lawsuit over Unit 32, said she watched the transformation there in wonder, especially as two men who at the beginning of the process seemed deeply entrenched in their views shifted direction. The change, she said, was ''stunning.''
Mr. Sparkman said the new approach went against everything he had been trained to do. ''If you'd come to me in 2002 and told me I was going to do something like that, I'd say, 'You don't know me,' '' he said. ''I'd have probably locked them down for anything that squeaked.''
Mr. Epps looks back at the decision as a nerve-racking gamble.
''Was it scary? Absolutely,'' he said. ''But it worked out just fine. We didn't have a single incident.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 18, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about states that are rethinking the use of long-term solitary confinement misidentified the office held by Christopher B. Epps, Mississippi's commissioner of corrections, in the American Correctional Association. He is president-elect, not president. (Daron Hall is the current president; Mr. Epps takes over in 2013.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A death row cell in Unit 32 of the Mississippi State Penitentiary. Conditions prompted a lawsuit that led to the unit's closing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
CHANGED ATTITUDES: Christopher B. Epps, Mississippi's commissioner of corrections, said he used to believe that difficult inmates should be locked down as tightly as possible, for as long as possible. ''That was the culture, and I was part of it,'' he said. Clockwise from top, recreation pens once used for Unit 32 of the Mississippi State Penitentiary, now closed
one of the unit's 12-foot-by-7---foot solitary cells
and a shield used by guards. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
JAMES PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 SHUTTERED: Unit 32 used to hold prisoners in solitary confinement for up to 23 hours a day. They were allowed out only in shackles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (91%); SENTENCING (78%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (78%); HOMICIDE (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (72%); SUICIDE (70%); MENTAL ILLNESS (70%); DEATHS (69%); BASKETBALL (67%); WAR & CONFLICT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2012



433 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: h, to Bring 'Gold' Home, And Perhaps the Bacon

BYLINE: By JENNIFER CONLIN

 BODY:
DRESSED all in black, their silhouettes stark against the sparkling white ice, Meryl Davis and Charlie White, the only American ice dancing team to ever win the world championships, zoom around the rink, their bodies perfectly synchronized as they twirl, glide, step and spin, first to a samba and later to Strauss.
Leaving no detail of their choreography unexamined, from the one-arm lifts to the dizzying ''twizzles'' -- an official figure skating term for rotating multiple times -- the duo searched for perfection as they practiced in February at the Arctic Edge ice rink in Canton, Mich., just outside of Detroit. Finally finishing that day's six-hour training session, they topped it off with a one-hour workout in the gym upstairs -- all just part of Ms. Davis and Mr. White's normal weekday as they prepare to defend their first world title in the South of France later this month. 
''We just want to concentrate on where we are now,'' Mr. White, 24, said at the Daydream Cafe, their regular lunch spot just across the street from the rink, where they both ordered their favorite chipotle turkey sandwiches. ''We've learned not to look too far ahead,'' added Ms. Davis, 25, who often finishes Mr. White's sentences, as he does hers.
But it is clear, in spite of their words, that after winning the silver medal in the 2010 Olympics in Vancouver (and with four straight United States championships to their credit, the last won in San Jose, Calif., in January), they have their minds set on bringing home the gold at the 2014 Games in Russia.
Many think the two, with their Disney good looks (Ms. Davis is a dead ringer for Belle, with long brown hair and wide-set eyes, while Mr. White could play any prince with his broad shoulders and curly blond locks), might finally bring the American figure skating world out of a lull that began the moment one Olympic medalist, Michelle Kwan, hung up her skates.
''It is too bad that the 'Ice Princess' ideal is still so strong that all the other talent in the figure skating world -- pairs, men's and ice dancing -- still gets so little attention compared to women's singles,'' Ms. Davis lamented, admitting that even in the ladies category, no one has come along who can rival the late '90s team, when Ms. Kwan and Tara Lipinski started sharing the limelight. ''Those were the golden ages of skating,'' Ms. Davis added.
Mr. White's and Ms. Davis's story, however, could alter the country's current indifference to figure skating, particularly in the run-up to the Olympics, as sponsors begin to focus on finding their future athletic stars. Not only are the two at the top of their sport, but they have the youthful good looks and easy assurance that would likely make them a marketer's dream.
But so far they have not been able to break through the public consciousness and evolve into crossover stars like such other winter Olympians as Bode Miller.
''Clearly this is an amazingly marketable couple who are talented,'' said Marc Beckman, founder of the Designers Management Agency, which represents athletes. ''But to get endorsements they need to have a story to tell that helps them emotionally connect with the American Public.''
''I have never heard of them,'' he said, ''and that is in itself a problem as they have won an Olympic medal. Clearly their agents or managers are not doing enough. It is not their sport that is unpopular, it is more about building a brand for them, and a platform.''
Hailey Ohnuki, who is with IMG and has been their agent since the 2010 Olympics, agrees that Mr. White and Ms. Davis are probably not as well known as they should be, but says it is not for lack of trying, particularly when it comes to social media. Ms. Ohnuki said that Ms. Davis is active on Twitter, and that the skaters have a Facebook fan page.
''I think they have no large endorsements at this point because it is a challenging time in the economy,'' Ms. Ohnuki said. ''But after the Summer Olympics we plan to get them out there more. They care about literacy issues and kids' nutrition, so we try to reach out to companies who care about those issues as well.''
One recent chance to possibly enhance their public image -- or at least increase their exposure -- was left untaken. ''ESPN asked us to pose nude for their 'Body' issue,'' Mr. White said, referring to the sports network's magazine.
While skating couples are often brought together by coaches in different cities or states (forcing families to relocate), Ms. Davis and Mr. White grew up in the same suburb, Bloomfield Hills, Mich., and were paired by a Detroit Skating Club coach when they were just 8 and 9. ''It was weird holding a girl's hand at that age,'' recalled Mr. White. That first ''ice dance'' in 1998, however, was the beginning of what has become a 15-year working partnership. (Sorry, romantics, but they are not a couple, despite their loving looks on the ice.)
In 2006, two of the top figure skating coaches in the world, the Russian-born Marina Zoueva and Igor Shpilband, were minutes away, in Canton, where they also coach Ms. Davis's and Mr. White's biggest rivals -- the Canadian ice-dancing team Tessa Virtue and Scott Moir, who won the gold at the last Olympics and the silver at last year's world championships. (''It is a healthy, friendly rivalry,'' Ms. Davis said.)
That year, 2006, turned out to be a pinnacle for Ms. Davis and Mr. White. Not only did they win the junior national championships but also the bronze at the world junior championships, only to watch it all crumble away when Mr. White broke his ankle in a hockey tournament (he played all through school). ''It was really upsetting,'' Mr. White said. ''We were doing so well and then suddenly just had to stop completely.''
The upside was that they were able to relax during their last year of high school. ''I even went to the prom,'' Ms. Davis said. The downside was that they both missed skating horribly.
''We realized we didn't like just being normal teenagers,'' recalled Ms. Davis, who by then had been accepted at the University of Michigan, along with Mr. White. With Mr. White healed, they agreed to defer college for a year and ''catch up'' on their lost training months.
Since then, Ms. Davis and Mr. White have merged skating, scholastics and a social life. Both attend the University of Michigan part-time (he studies political science, she, anthropology and Italian). He lives in a house near campus; she joined a sorority but now lives in a condo halfway between the rink and school.
When it is suggested that becoming a couple might be marketing tool to gain endorsements, they laugh.
''There are some other skating pairs who sort of play with the media, pretending they might be a couple,'' Ms. Davis said. ''But I think people respect and appreciate Charlie and my relationship, and we would never want to pretend it was something else.''
Said Mr. White, ''Yeah, but we are getting quite good at looking at each other, when we skate like we are one another's whole world.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 18, 2012

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the figure skaters Meryl Davis and Charlie White referred incorrectly to the skater Michelle Kwan. She won silver and bronze medals in the Olympic Games; she was not an ''Olympic champion.'' The article also referred incorrectly to the skater Kristi Yamaguchi. She was not part of the United States Olympic team in the late 1990s, by which time she had retired from the Winter Games.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THINKING RUSSIA: The skaters are the 2011 world champions, and 2010 Olympic and world silver medalists.
 PLAY OUR SONG: The American ice dancers Meryl Davis and Charlie White practice at Arctic Edge rink in Canton, Mich. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFFREY SAUGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINTER SPORTS (91%); ICE SKATING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); DANCERS (89%); WINTER OLYMPICS (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); 2010 VANCOUVER WINTER OLYMPICS (76%); CELEBRITIES (64%)

COMPANY: PERFECTION AS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (69%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (69%) ARCTIC (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (69%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2012



434 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: How India Became America

BYLINE: By AKASH KAPUR. 
The author of the forthcoming ''India Becoming: A Portrait of Life in Modern India.''

 BODY:
Pondicherry, India
ANOTHER brick has come down in the great wall separating India from the rest of the world. Recently, both Starbucks and Amazon announced that they would be entering the Indian market. Amazon has already started a comparison shopping site; Starbucks plans to open its first outlet this summer.
As one Indian newspaper put it, this could be ''the final stamp of globalization.'' 
For me, though, the arrival of these two companies, so emblematic of American consumerism, and so emblematic, too, of the West Coast techie culture that has infiltrated India's own booming technology sector, is a sign of something more distinctive. It signals the latest episode in India's remarkable process of Americanization.
I grew up in rural India, the son of an Indian father and American mother. I spent many summers (and the occasional biting, shocking winter) in rural Minnesota. I always considered both countries home. In truth, though, the India and America of my youth were very far apart: cold war adversaries, America's capitalist exuberance a sharp contrast to India's austere socialism. For much of my life, my two homes were literally -- but also culturally, socially and experientially -- on opposite sides of the planet.
All that began changing in the early 1990s, when India liberalized its economy. Since then, I've watched India's transformation with exhilaration, but occasionally, and increasingly, with some anxiety.
I left for boarding school in America in 1991. By the time I graduated from high school, two years later, Indian cities had filled with shopping malls and glass-paneled office buildings. In the countryside, thatch huts had given way to concrete homes, and cashew and mango plantations were being replaced by gated communities. In both city and country, a newly liberated population was indulging in a frenzy (some called it an orgy) of consumerism and self-expression.
More than half a century ago, R. K. Narayan, that great chronicler of India in simpler times, wrote about his travels in America. ''America and India are profoundly different in attitude and philosophy,'' he wrote. ''Indian philosophy stresses austerity and unencumbered, uncomplicated day-to-day living. America's emphasis, on the other hand, is on material acquisition and the limitless pursuit of prosperity.'' By the time I decided to return to India for good, in 2003, Narayan's observations felt outdated. A great reconciliation had taken place; my two homes were no longer so far apart.
This reconciliation -- this Americanization of India -- had both tangible and intangible manifestations. The tangible signs included an increase in the availability of American brands; a noticeable surge in the population of American businessmen (and their booming voices) in the corridors of five-star hotels; and, also, a striking use of American idiom and American accents. In outsourcing companies across the country, Indians were being taught to speak more slowly and stretch their O's. I found myself turning my head (and wincing a little) when I heard young Indians call their colleagues ''dude.''
But the intangible evidence of Americanization was even more remarkable. Something had changed in the very spirit of the country. The India in which I grew up was, in many respects, an isolated and dour place of limited opportunity. The country was straitjacketed by its moralistic rejection of capitalism, by a lethargic and often depressive fatalism.
Now it is infused with an energy, a can-do ambition and an entrepreneurial spirit that I can only describe as distinctly American. In surveys of global opinion, Indians consistently rank as among the most optimistic people in the world. Bookstores are stacked with titles like ''India Arriving,'' ''India Booms'' and ''The Indian Renaissance.'' The Pew Global Attitudes Project, which measures opinions across major countries, regularly finds that Indians admire values and attributes typically thought of as American: free-market capitalism, globalization, even multinational companies. Substantial majorities associate Americans with values like hard work and inventiveness, and even during the Iraq war, India's views of America remained decidedly positive.
I HAVE learned, though, that the nation's new American-style prosperity is a more complex, and certainly more ambivalent, phenomenon than it first appears. The villages around my home have undeniably grown more prosperous, but they are also more troubled. Abandoned fields and fallow plantations are indications of a looming agricultural and environmental crisis. Ancient social structures are collapsing under the weight of new money. Bonds of caste and religion and family have frayed; the panchayats, village assemblies made up of elders, have lost their traditional authority. Often, lawlessness and violence step into the vacuum left behind.
I recently spoke with a woman in her mid-50s who lives in a nearby village. She leads a simple life (impoverished even, by American standards), but she is immeasurably better off than she was a couple of decades ago. She grew up in a thatch hut. Now she lives in a house with a concrete roof, running water and electricity. Her son owns a cellphone and drives a motorcycle. Her niece is going to college.
But not long before we talked, there had been a murder in the area, the latest in a series of violent attacks and killings. Shops that hadn't existed a decade ago were boarded up in anticipation of further violence; the police patrolled newly tarred roads. The woman was scared to leave her home.
''This is what all the money has brought to us,'' she said to me. ''We were poor, but at least we didn't need to worry about our lives. I think it was better that way.''
Hers is a lament -- against rapid development, against the brutality of modernity -- that I have heard with increasing frequency. India's Americanization has in so many ways been a wonderful thing. It has lifted millions from poverty, and, by seeding ideas of meritocracy and individual attainment into the national imagination, it has begun the process of dismantling an old and often repressive order. More and more, though, I find myself lying awake at night, worrying about what will take the place of that order. The American promise of renewal and reinvention is deeply seductive -- but, as I have learned since coming back home, it is also profoundly menacing.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 18, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A photo caption with an opinion article about the Americanization of India last Sunday incorrectly identified the mall in the image. It was the Express Avenue mall in Chennai, not Mantri Square mall, which is in Bangalore.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers in the Mantri Mall, the largest in Chennai, in southern India. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RURAL COMMUNITIES (88%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); RETAILERS (72%); COLD WAR (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (64%); MISC FRUIT FARMING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PONDICHERRY, INDIA (74%) SOUTH INDIA (79%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (78%); MINNESOTA, USA (76%); PONDICHERRY, INDIA (74%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2012



435 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 7365 words

HEADLINE: What Happened to the Girls in Le Roy

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS

 BODY:
Before the media vans took over Main Street, before the environmental testers came to dig at the soil, before the doctor came to take blood, before strangers started knocking on doors and asking question after question, Katie Krautwurst, a high-school cheerleader from Le Roy, N.Y., woke up from a nap. Instantly, she knew something was wrong. Her chin was jutting forward uncontrollably and her face was contracting into spasms. She was still twitching a few weeks later when her best friend, Thera Sanchez, captain of one of the school's cheerleading squads, awoke from a nap stuttering and then later started twitching, her arms flailing and head jerking. Two weeks after that, Lydia Parker, also a senior, erupted in tics and arm swings and hums. 
Then word got around that Chelsey Dumars, another cheerleader, who recently moved to town, was making the same strange noises, the same strange movements, leaving school early on the days she could make it to class at all. The numbers grew -- 12, then 16, then 18, in a school of 600 -- and as they swelled, the ranks of the sufferers came to include a wider swath of the Le Roy high-school hierarchy: girls who weren't cheerleaders, girls who kept to themselves and had studs in their lips. There was even one boy and an older woman, age 36. Parents wept as their daughters stuttered at the dinner table. Teachers shut their classroom doors when they heard a din of outbursts, one cry triggering another, sending the increasingly familiar sounds ricocheting through the halls. Within a few months, as the camera crews continued to descend, the community barely seemed to recognize itself. One expert after another arrived to pontificate about what was wrong in Le Roy, a town of 7,500 in Western New York that had long prided itself on the things it got right. The kids here were wholesome and happy, their parents insisted -- ''cheerleaders and honor students,'' as one father said -- products of a place that, while not perfect, was made up more of what was good about small-town America than what was bad. Now, though, the girls' writhing and stuttering suggested something troubling, either arising from within the community or being perpetrated on it, a mystery that proved irresistible for onlookers, whose attention would soon become part of the story itself.
Le Roy's East Main Street displays an impressive row of grand Victorians and Federalist-style homes built in the 19th century, testament to the flour mills and salt mines that made the town a comfortable place to live. After that came the Jell-O years, when that company and several others employed thousands of people in the area. But Jell-O and most of the rest of the factories took their work elsewhere by the 1960s, and now a good number of those historic homes have been divided into two- or three-family rentals, with peeling paint and rows of crooked mailboxes inside the foyer. Some houses look so beaten down by weather and disrepair that it comes as a surprise to see a light on inside. Le Roy is a working-class community with good schools that attract people who work in nearby Rochester. But it is also a manufacturing town whose prosperous days are behind it -- the kind of place where local politicians are always talking about how to bring back the good old days.
Katie Krautwurst and her family live in one of the stately, well-preserved houses in town, a home her mother's ancestors built, its porch now decorated with semicircular American flag banners and a child's antique sled. At the top of a winding staircase is Katie's room, a pink-and-yellow perch where she and Thera sat talking one late February afternoon. The girls grew close a few years ago, when they met through cheerleading and realized they both had a crush on the same guy. ''How weird was that?'' Thera asked, her voice going loud and her eyes going wide. Thera speaks in italics and underlines; Katie, by contrast, is so reserved she could be mistaken for nonchalant. As they talked, Thera was idly going through Katie's walk-in closet to see what was new. Katie's face showed a quick spasm, a twitch, every few minutes, subtle enough that you might miss it if you weren't looking. Thera had a bruise on her left leg from where she had fainted the evening before and landed on her bedside table.
On the afternoon when Katie first started twitching, she was at her boyfriend's house. When the symptoms worsened, his mother called her mother, who told them to call an ambulance and meet her at the emergency room in Rochester. Paramedics strapped Katie onto the stretcher. ''Then I couldn't twitch, so it made it even worse, and I was freaking out even more,'' she said. Doctors at the hospital told Katie and her mother that she was having an anxiety attack. Katie was a straight-A student who admits she can be anxious at times. But her symptoms persisted, so she and her mother went back to the same emergency room a few days later. This time, Katie's mother, Beth Miller, a nurse, insisted they conduct more elaborate tests. After seven hours of testing that included an M.R.I. and a blood panel, the doctors told Miller what she already knew: her daughter had tics.
Katie was still twitching when she saw Thera early the next week at the art class they were taking together. ''I was really weirded out,'' Thera said. ''I got upset, really upset.'' When, a few weeks later, Thera's symptoms came on, she and Katie did not connect the events. ''A lot of people have tics,'' Katie said, as if she thought at the time it was just something girls got, like cramps or a cold. It's true that tics are not that uncommon -- one in a hundred high-school students experiences them at one time or another. Last summer, Katie played soccer with two girls who were displaying tics on and off for more than a year. One was diagnosed with Tourette's syndrome.
When doctors told Thera's mother, Melisa Phillips, that her daughter's tics were stress-related, she ''went along with it,'' she told me. ''I know she has a huge heart, and she's wound tight.'' Thera also had an episode of tics three years ago. But when Phillips learned that other girls were coming down with similar symptoms, she began to wonder if there was more to this than stress.
Other parents were wondering the same thing: Maybe there was something in the water at the school or in the ground under the playing fields. By mid-January, the number of known cases was around 12, and parents eagerly awaited the preliminary results of an investigation by the New York State Department of Health. But at the community meeting where the results were to be announced, officials said that out of deference to the patients' privacy, their diagnosis could not be revealed. They did try to assure the crowd that the school's environment was safe, but the air-quality tests they performed left a number of parents unsatisfied, including Katie's mother and stepfather, Don Miller. Five days after the meeting, Katie, Thera and their mothers -- all of them photogenic and sympathetic -- appeared on the ''Today'' show. ''I'm trying to get all the information together so I can proceed in finding a cure for our daughters,'' Beth Miller told Ann Curry.
On the show, Katie's tics seemed under control, but Thera's were extreme: she jerked her head to the side and swung her arm across her body and occasionally stuttered over a word before making a guttural cry. She looked impossibly brave for showing herself in that state on national television. ''I was always so active, and everybody was always happy to be around me,'' she said, in fits and starts. ''But I don't feel like myself anymore.''
The story took off quickly, not just on the local and national news but on Facebook and autism blogs and sites devoted to mental health and environmental issues. The day after Katie and Thera appeared on ''Today,'' a neurologist in Buffalo whose practice had seen many of the girls was given the greenlight to speak about the diagnosis: it was conversion disorder, he said, which meant the girls were subconsciously converting stress into physical symptoms. And because so many students were afflicted with similar symptoms, it was also considered to be mass psychogenic illness, which is another way of saying mass hysteria.
To many parents, the diagnosis was woefully inadequate, even insulting.''It's a very hard pill for me to swallow -- what are we, living in the 1600s?'' the guardian of one of the girls said. Besides, kids are always stressed, and some of these kids may have been less stressed than most. On CNN, James DuPont, the father of an afflicted girl, said, ''A lot of these kids were just, you know, having a happy, normal life.'' Miller told me she did not buy the diagnosis, not one bit. ''My daughter hasn't had any trauma,'' she said. ''She was just happy, going along. She was as happy as can be.''
Long before any teenagers started twitching, the conversation at the coffee shop in town or at the counter of Jim DuPont's television-repair shop would turn, from time to time, to speculation about what kind of waste Le Roy's manufacturing plants might have left behind. Some of the older residents remember that they could always tell what flavor the Jell-O factory was producing on a given day based on the color of the water in Oatka Creek. What else, they wonder, got dumped on Le Roy?
Beth Miller suspects that there was a cancer cluster on the street where she once lived in Le Roy -- she and several of her neighbors have been stricken with tumors -- and early on, she suspected that Katie's symptoms might have something to do with the environment as well. Not long after she started pursuing these leads, someone placed under her doormat documentation about a train accident near Le Roy in 1970, in which tens of thousands of gallons of toxic chemicals were spilled into the soil, including trichloroethylene, a solvent that has been linked, in high levels of exposure, to nervous-system damage, among other things.
Three months into Katie's illness, Miller contacted Erin Brockovich, the environmental activist played by Julia Roberts in the film of the same name. Brockovich sent a team to Le Roy to test the soil on school grounds, theorizing that the school might have been built on earth trucked in from the contaminated site. ''We don't have all the answers, but we are suspicious,'' Brockovich told USA Today. ''They have not ruled everything out yet.''
On Saturday, Jan. 28, Brockovich's team, accompanied by a crew from CNN and a handful of other reporters, arrived at the Le Roy high school to perform their tests, only to find members of the local police waiting to escort them off the property. The mood in Le Roy, already tense, was now charged with anger. ''I will tell you that usually in settings or situations like this, when I'm confronted by officials barring access to something, they usually have something to hide,'' Bob Bowcock, one of Brockovich's testers, told CNN.
In the days that followed, groups of residents made their way to the site of the former spill, to compare notes and to see what there was to see. ''I am very angry,'' said Robyn Horn, a mother of four. ''I mean, what are they trying to hide? They wouldn't let them take a little bit of soil?'' The Batavian, a local online newspaper, posted a poll asking, ''Are you confident Le Roy schools are looking out for the best interest of students?'' Of the 1,600 people who responded, 67 percent answered no.
And so on the first Saturday morning in February, five months into the crisis, there was another community meeting. Kim Cox, the school superintendent, stood before the town's parents and faced hostile questions about a host of environmental concerns: natural gas wells on school property, toxic-waste cleanup sites within a few miles and a sticky orange substance oozing out of the playing fields.
''What are you doing now to protect our children in school right now?'' one of the parents asked.
Cox offered her best assurances: that environmental testing had already been done; and that no known environmental toxin, the country's best experts agreed, would cause these particular symptoms or account for an affliction affecting almost exclusively teenage girls and not boys or teachers or any other staff members.
A small woman in the audience stood up and began to shout, ''You guys need to prove to us it is safe for my daughter to be in this school.'' The superintendent tried to respond, but the woman pointed her finger at her and said: ''No, I'm done listening to you. You need to do something!'' Then she stormed out of the room, a man with a video camera hustling after her.
Right around this time -- when Brockovich started appearing in the news and everyone was talking about toxins and trust in local officials was at an all-time low -- the neurologists in Buffalo who were treating some of the girls started seeing their patients' conditions worsen. One of the doctors, Laszlo Mechtler, told The Batavian that patients who had been improving were suddenly in his office, ''crying, 'This chemical is in my head and I'm damaged for the rest of my life.' '' Doctors also saw an increase in cases, which they attributed to sensational coverage and increased stress. As more girls got sick, the story got bigger, and then more girls got sick.
Katie and Thera thought some other girls in town might be suffering from conversion disorder. But not them. ''No,'' Katie said. ''Me and Thera, we've definitely had times we've been stressed out, but this wasn't the time we were stressed out.''
As the afternoon we spent talking wore on, the pink on Katie's bedroom wall turning a darker rose, she started packing up a bag to go to her boyfriend's house. The families were close -- her boyfriend's mother drove her and her mom to the hospital the second time she went. Her own mother could not drive, Katie explained, because she was recovering from brain surgery.
In addition to her tumor, Beth Miller suffers from trigeminal neuralgia, a nerve condition that causes excruciating pain in her face. In the weeks leading up to the surgery, she was so sick she sometimes had trouble getting out of bed. The surgery took place just a week before the onset of Katie's tics.
Katie could see the line of questioning that piece of information might provoke, so she quickly clarified. ''She's had, like, 13,'' Katie said of the surgeries. If that seems like something that might be hard on a child, Katie isn't one to dwell on it. ''I'm so used to it,'' she said, her voice trailing off in a huge yawn. ''Seriously, it was like a walk in the park.''
Thera was perched on the bed, biting her nail. It was not just cheerleading and clothes that bound the girls: both have gone through a lot with their families -- troubles of very different natures, but troubles nonetheless. Several years ago there was a traumatic loss in Thera's family, the details of which they requested remain private. And now her relationship with her biological father, with whom she hasn't lived since she was very young, was weighing on her. She was feeling particularly bad about it lately, losing sleep over some harsh words they recently exchanged. She and her mother were angry that, even after she started having seizures, he didn't come up from his home in South Carolina to help out. ''I used to be Sissy to him, and now I'm just Thera,'' she told me. ''And he used to be Dad, and now he's just Frank.''
Not long after Thera's symptoms began, her mother started dating someone new. But, Thera said, she liked him.
Katie looked up from her cellphone. ''Oh, so you like him, now?'' Thera said that she did, a lot. She had just been wary at first. ''I have trust issues,'' she said. ''I think I have that right.''
Over the course of the afternoon, both girls yawned, one after the other; one mentioned her stomach hurt, then the other one did, too. They spoke in shorthand and overlapping sentences. Thera reached into Katie's closet and pulled out a jumper. ''It's a onesie,'' she said. Katie laughed.
''Katie told me that she wouldn't wish tics on anyone,'' Thera said, ''but if it had to be someone, she was glad she was going through it with her best friend.''
Like everything else in high school, the girls' symptoms were broken down by status: there were the kids who were really sick and then the kids whose illness was ''psychological'' and then the kids who were faking it so they could get on the news. No matter how many times the doctors explained that these symptoms were real, something the girls could not control, the finger-pointing persisted. One mother even went on Facebook to publicly accuse her daughter's best friend of faking, before apologizing the next day. ''If they were faking it, I'd like to know how they can cause it,'' said Dave Watson, guardian for one of the affected cheerleaders. ''It's not like any one movement is more exaggerated than the next. It's pretty damn consistent. I'd like someone to explain to me how they could walk around all day and do it consciously.''
Conversion disorder presents something of a paradox in that it engages some voluntary pathways in the brain but is experienced by the patient as wholly involuntary. One study found overlapping, but distinctly different, brain activity in patients diagnosed with conversion disorder and patients asked to ''fake'' the same illness, in this case a limp ankle, suggesting ''more complex mental activity'' in patients with conversion disorder. The very notion of what makes a movement feel voluntary -- and whether movements actually are voluntary, or only feel that way as a result of some post hoc coordinating that happens in the brain -- is another philosophical and neurological question.
Researchers think the illness might have something to do with the amygdala, a locus of startle and fear responses in the brain, which has been shown to be overactive in patients with conversion disorder. ''Ordinarily, the amygdala might create psychological distress, but instead, in these cases, it would create an involuntary movement,'' says Mark Hallett, a senior investigator at the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. He added, though, that while the theory is plausible, ''we're at a primitive level'' in terms of understanding how it works.
Conversion disorder is somewhat better understood now than it was when the French neurologist Jean Martin Charcot displayed his patients' fainting fits to hundreds of dazzled audience members in the 1870s. Fainting and nonepileptic seizures are common symptoms, as are seemingly paralyzed limbs; less common, but still well represented, are certain types of tics and twitches. Recent research has confirmed some of Freud's early theorizing on the subject, finding that a history of trauma is higher in patients with conversion disorder than in other kinds of psychiatric patients.
Part of what is baffling about the Le Roy case is that it seems to combine two equally poorly understood phenomena: conversion disorder and mass psychogenic illness. Jennifer McVige, a doctor at the Dent Neurologic Institute in Buffalo who has seen 14 patients from Le Roy (neither Katie nor Thera is her patient), has said that most of them are dealing with serious stressors or trauma. That history is somewhat unusual for mass psychogenic illness, which is not generally thought to target people with a particular psychological background. In other ways, however, the case in Le Roy is a textbook example. Half of mass psychogenic illnesses occur in schools, and they are far more common in young women than any other category. Simon Wessely, an epidemiologist at King's College in London and chairman of the department of psychological medicine, estimates that hundreds of outbreaks occur every year in the United States -- just this past November, 22 students fell ill with stomach complaints at a football game in Houston, and no one so much as noticed outside the local news. Motor mass hysterias -- twitching, fainting, stuttering -- are more rare and draw more attention. In the past 10 years there have been three such outbreaks in the United States, which Robert Bartholomew, a sociologist specializing in the subject at Botany Downs Secondary College in Auckland, New Zealand, says is a surprising number for so short a period of time.
How could one person's illness be reflected in another person's neural pathways, playing a trick on consciousness, convincing the host that it originated in her own body? In the last decade, scientists have begun to explore the concept that regions in our brain once thought to activate only our own activity or sensations are also firing what are known as mirror neurons when we witness someone else perform an action or feel a sensation. Mass psychogenic illness could be thought of as the maladaptive version of the kind of empathy that finds expression in actual physical sensation: the contagious yawn or sympathetic nausea or the sibling who grabs his own finger when he sees his brother's bleed.
Any two people, as they try to delicately disagree or flirt or compare notes on the best route to Boston, might unwittingly match vocal tones or even frequency of eye blinks. In one study, researchers found that subjects trying to form an alliance with someone else subconsciously tap their feet to match the tapping of that person's foot, or touch their faces with the same frequency. ''It's happening unconsciously, but it is serving the goals you need it to serve,'' says Jessica Lakin, the chairwoman of the psychology department at Drew University in New Jersey, who studies what's known as the chameleon effect. Another study contrived to make subjects feel excluded from an online game; when those subjects were next introduced to someone new, they matched foot-tapping even more assiduously (and equally subconsciously) as if all the more motivated, at some primal level, to bond through physical mimicry. Mass psychogenic illness, whatever its mysterious mechanism, seems deeply connected to empathy and to a longing for what social psychologists call affiliation: belonging.
Cheerleaders frequently come up in case histories of mass psychogenic illness at schools, partly because psychogenic outbreaks often start with someone of high social status. But it might also be that their enviable unity is what makes them more susceptible. In 2002, 10 students, 5 of them cheerleaders, in a rural town in North Carolina suffered from nonepileptic seizures and fainting spells. In 1952, the Associated Press reported that 165 members of the Tigerettes cheerleading squad from Monroe, La., fainted before halftime at a high-school football game in nearby Natchez, Miss. There were no unusual circumstances, other than a little bit of heat and an embarrassing incident in which the girls had come onto the field after the first quarter, by accident. So many girls were fainting in quick succession that five ambulances raced across the field at once. ''It looked like the racetrack at Indianapolis,'' a spectator said.
Most cases resolve quickly. Authorities say something reassuring about the environment, the symptoms fade and everyone moves on. ''Things only go wrong,'' Wessely wrote in 1995, ''when the nature of an outbreak is not recognized, and a fruitless and expensive search for toxins, fumes and gases begins. Anxiety, far from being reduced, increases. It is only then that long-term psychological problems may develop.'' A school in the United Kingdom was plagued for years by the concern that a strange odor was making students and teachers ill, even though public-health officials found no problem. Administrators relocated the school temporarily, but teachers still worried that the books they brought with them could contaminate the new space.
The environmental concerns in Le Roy seemed to be gaining traction rather than being put to rest. At times, it was hard to distinguish between paranoia and justifiable concern. Soon after Brockovich's testers were turned away from the school, a WPIX reporter showed footage of dozens of corroding barrels near the site of the train derailment, some of them oozing a putty-colored material, in an area marked ''Hazardous Waste.'' E.P.A. officials told the reporter that despite the labels, they did not believe ''for one second'' that the barrels contained hazardous materials -- then sent men in hazmat suits to test and later remove them. ''With the government, our own health department, collaborating with the school, with Dent, it's almost just short of a conspiracy,'' James DuPont, one of the fathers, said. ''People are getting that thing, like they're trying to hide something.''
''That mass psychogenic illness -- that's just a bunch of hoggy,'' said Heather Parker. It was around noon on a Sunday in late January, and she was getting ready to leave the house to go to her job doing technical support at TurboTax. Her 17-year-old daughter Lydia, who took ill one week after Thera in mid-October, was curled up in an armchair in the living room. As she talked, Lydia's right arm moved, over and over and over, in what looked like a hitchhiking gesture that had lost its way.
There was a calmness to the movement, an acceptance, that was different from what she displayed in a dramatic interview on ''Dr. Drew,'' a TV show on HLN hosted by Drew Pinsky, in late January. On that show, Lydia's face looked distressed, and her arm swung far more wildly. She had bruises on the side of her face from where had she punched herself. Beside her that day, Thera fidgeted and twitched.
Thera and Lydia are in the same grade, but before they both started suffering from tics, ''we weren't as close as we are now,'' Lydia said. Lydia is not the cheerleading type or the honor-roll type -- she has friends, but a small circle, and she was never much of a student. In some of the earliest news clips, her hair is blond; a few months later it is red; then, most recently, a purply black. She knew Thera from art class. ''She is a phenomenal artist,'' Lydia said. ''She can draw like there's no tomorrow. And she's in cheerleading. She has a bunch of friends. She has an amazing boyfriend -- and she wasn't stressed out. It's heartbreaking for her.'' It was only when she thought of Thera's pain that Lydia's eyes looked as if they were tearing up.
Precisely because Thera seemed to have the world at her feet, it's hard for Lydia to accept what the doctors have said about conversion disorder. But there's one thing Lydia is certain of. ''It's not the environment,'' she said. ''I always drank my own Snapple.''
The ''Dr. Drew'' interview was broadcast live from Thera's home. Several minutes into a discussion with a medical expert, the camera suddenly cut back to Thera. ''Oops,'' Drew Pinsky said. ''Thera is having a little bit of a reaction there. Thera, are you O.K.?'' She had slid slowly to her mother's lap and then onto the floor. ''Is her airway O.K.?'' Pinsky asked. ''Do you need me to call the paramedics?'' Her mother looked oddly calm, explaining that Thera had epilepsy. Recently she had also been experiencing nonepileptic seizures, which are a common form of psychogenic illness in people who have epilepsy. ''It's going to pass,'' she said. Thera was conscious, eyes open, but seizing up on the floor. Soon after the cameras stopped rolling, Lydia temporarily blacked out. Within a few days, she was feeling so much numbness in her legs, she had to rely on a wheelchair. She borrowed Thera's.
On the day we spoke, Lydia no longer needed the wheelchair, but she still did not seem well. She was having trouble sleeping and was on 11 different prescription medications. As we spoke, Lydia's 5-year-old sister silently came into the living room and crawled under a fleece leopard-print blanket beside her, looking out warily. Lydia's mother works long hours, and her grandmother works nights. That leaves Lydia to give her sister dinner, to put her to bed, to take her along on trips to the mall with her friends.
As for their father, ''No one knows where he is,'' Lydia said. And even if he were around, she would not trust him to watch her sister. ''He was always violent since maybe I was 10,'' she said. The worst incident occurred in February 2009. Her father had been drinking. ''I threw a shoe at him, he kept yelling at me and punched me in the back of the head,'' Lydia said. ''We ended up in a corner just like that, punching each other in the face for 10 minutes before my grandmother pulled him off.'' Lydia, her arm swinging steadily, spoke in a low, almost disinterested monotone. Fourteen at the time of the attack, she filed a police report.
''He reached out to me on Facebook a couple of days ago,'' Lydia said. For the first and only time during the interview, she let out two loud humming noises. ''He found out from watching -- hmm, hmm -- from the news and stuff. I didn't really let it bother me.''
Her sister got up and wandered into the kitchen to get some potato chips. ''It isn't important,'' Lydia said. ''It isn't relevant.''
The psychiatric department at the Rochester Medical Center was partially funded by a gift from Helen Woodward Rivas, heir to the Jell-O fortune and resident of Le Roy. (The department, its chairman liked to say, ''rests firmly on a foundation of Jell-O.'') It also happened to be the scholarly home of a physician-psychiatrist named George Engel, who was best known for promoting what he called the ''biopsychosocial'' model of diagnosing and treating illnesses. His influential 1977 paper in Science argued that doctors should evaluate the life circumstances, family backgrounds, income levels and daily habits of patients in addition to their physical health.
Engel would have seen biopsychosocial factors everywhere in Le Roy, a town that changed, like so many others in Western New York, when its factories closed down. The median income there, even as recently as 1980, was almost 9 percent above the national average; now it's below average. Where there were once single-family homes owned by their residents, there is a higher than average number of rental properties, meaning a more transient population. And the town's changes in family structure follow a trend that is particularly pronounced in working-class communities -- more divorce, more single mothers. In 1980, Le Roy had fewer single mothers living there than in most of the country; now that number, too, is higher than the national average. Economically, ''you see a decline in Le Roy, relative to the rest of the country,''said Andrew Beveridge, a sociology professor at Queens College and a consultant in census statistics for The New York Times. ''The change in household structure -- that's quite stark.''
A common thread emerged among the five girls I interviewed extensively: none had stable relationships with their biological fathers. And the father of a sixth girl had seen little of his high-school daughter until his concern about the tics galvanized their relationship. Another student was a foster child who switched foster homes shortly before his tics came on; yet another is in the custody of an older sibling. Another two have spotty contact with their fathers. One young woman I interviewed was close to homeless after she and her mother left her father's trailer. They're staying with a friend of a friend while her mother, who was laid off two times in the last year, tries to scrape together first and last month's rent so they can get a place of their own.
Nineteen-year-old Chelsey Dumars was both estranged from her own parents and a single mother herself. But she was also proof of the way that families could be put back together again in new variations. She lives in a narrow house by the railroad tracks that belongs to Penny Privitera-Watson and Dave Watson, the mother and stepfather of her former boyfriend, Peter. Chelsey moved in with them not long after she found herself pregnant last year. She and Peter were just friends at that point -- the father was someone else -- but she was on the outs with her own parents, who live in nearby Brockport, and needed help. Penny's sister runs a day care center behind the house, which means that Chelsey could go back to school -- and cheerleading -- knowing that her baby was well cared for.
Chelsey's symptoms came on about two weeks after Thera's. Her head twisted to the side every few minutes, her mouth grimacing as if she had tried and failed to stop the movement midway. At times, her neck twisted so severely that she was afraid to eat for fear of choking. Watson and his wife have taken her to various doctors and hospitals and are frustrated by what they see as an inadequate diagnosis. ''These girls are no more stressed than the girls the year before and the year before that,'' Watson said. Peter suggested another reason for people to accept the diagnosis of conversion disorder: The way he saw it, it didn't offer much hope. ''It's like it's incurable unless you eliminate the stress,'' he said. ''And there's stress everywhere you go.''
There are, of course, dozens of girls at the Le Roy high school with plenty of stress and difficult family situations who did not start twitching and jerking -- and many more who suffer neither poverty nor trauma nor family illness, and watched, their mother and father sitting beside them, as their friends appeared on the nightly news. Why these girls? One could try to connect the dots: the relationships of cheerleading and art class and friendship, the way the symptoms seemed to flow from the girls at the top of the social heap to those who looked up to them, the commonality of a certain kind of vulnerability. But the workings of the illness are in some ways as mysterious as the hidden codes of adolescence itself.
Hysteria, the medical historian Robert Woolsey writes, is a ''protolanguage,'' its symptoms ''a code used by a patient to communicate a message which, for various reasons, cannot be verbalized.'' As their parents and the media and town officials conducted a conversation all around them, the girls in Le Roy seemed to be sharing a language that maybe even they did not fully understand. That so many people in town were more preoccupied with environmental waste than the homes of the affected young people suggests that their message may have been hard for some of the adults to hear, too.
But there were also some Le Roy residents who knew the girls' backgrounds and who made the link between those histories and the symptoms. Lynne Belluscio, the director of the Le Roy Historical Society, said that in a small town, ''people weren't going to go and shout, 'Say, these kids have got these kinds of problems.' '' They were not going to say it at a community meeting, and they might not even say it to friends. ''That's damaged the trust within the community,'' she said.
The sickness of the girls seemed to ripple out to affect the health of the whole community, which suddenly found itself an object of fascination and fear and mistrust. Five basketball games were canceled when parents of players in neighboring counties voted not to let their children travel to Le Roy. Belluscio has a friend who is worried that her real estate sale is falling through, a common tale in recent weeks, and local businesses were complaining that commerce was down, because people had fears about the water, not to mention an aversion to the media vans up and down Main Street. ''It's emotionally exhausting to people who love this community,'' said Lorie Longhany, chairwoman of the Genesee County Democratic Committee. ''Without laying any blame on any of these families -- they're going through their private hell with this. But it's not private hell, it's public hell. It's almost like a depression has just settled over Le Roy.''
Eventually, the E.P.A. tested the barrels and found they did not contain hazardous waste. Eventually, it was discovered that the sticky orange ooze on the playing fields was something known as rust fungus, which is common to Kentucky bluegrass. And yet Erin Brockovich said there was more to investigate. It seemed the door on potentially dangerous toxins could never fully be closed.
In her book ''Hystories,'' the feminist critic Elaine Showalter argues that hysterical epidemics require three ingredients: physician-enthusiasts and theorists; unhappy and vulnerable patients; and supportive cultural environments. The physician-enthusiast generally offers ''a unified field theory of a vague syndrome, providing a clear and coherent explanation for its many confusing symptoms,'' she writes.
Le Roy certainly had vulnerable patients and a supportive environment. And in late January, Rosario Trifiletti, a pediatric neurologist from Ramsey, N.J., stepped forward with a theory of the illness. In a local doctor's office, where a group of concerned parents had gathered to hear what he had to say, Trifiletti laid out his thinking: the girls were suffering from an illness similar to Pandas (Pediatric Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorders Associated with Streptococcus), a disease in which the immune system alters the neurochemistry of young people suffering from strep infection. The parents had questions, and Trifiletti seemed to have reasonable answers. If it was an infection, why would it only affect girls? Trifiletti explained that it might be their more sensitive endocrine systems. Why so many girls, if Pandas is generally rare? It could be a particularly virulent infection. What about the environmental toxins? That might be compromising their immune systems in ways that left them particularly vulnerable to this kind of autoimmune disease.
Susan Swedo, the neurologist at the National Institutes of Health who first described the disease, has implied that she doubted Pandas or a similar syndrome could be responsible for the symptoms in Le Roy. The phenomenon is rare enough that the odds of so many students suffering from it at once, all in one high school, were almost impossible. But a week later, after examining the girls, Trifiletti revealed on ''Dr. Drew'' that all nine of the girls he tested showed evidence of either strep exposure or exposure to the organism associated with pneumonia. Results were far from conclusive, and he would need to study the levels of antibodies in their blood over time to know more, but he said there was enough evidence to get them started on antibiotics and anti-inflammatories.
After that, more lines were drawn in Le Roy. Some girls, including a few who had been receiving treatment at Dent, started seeing Trifiletti and taking the medications he prescribed. Others remained with their original neurologists, and were bullied on Facebook by those who were now taking the antibiotics: if you got better without the pills, you had surely been faking all along. The accusations invariably exacerbated the symptoms. Wessely, the epidemiologist, cited a medical-journal paper whose title had long resonated with him: ''If You Have to Prove You Are Ill, You Can't Get Better.''
When I spoke to him in late February, Trifiletti told me that the girls he was treating were showing dramatic signs of improvement. Katie's parents said they believed that she was responding well to the antibiotics; Chelsey's family reported that the drugs are helping her as well. But another patient of Trifiletti's said she was still fainting.
When the subject of the girls' personal backgrounds came up -- the biopsychosocial factors that might be affecting their health -- Trifiletti said he had not had the time to ask them about those kinds of things. The abuse, the troubling family circumstances -- much of it came as news to him. ''Jeez, I didn't realize the extent,'' Trifiletti said. ''These aren't things people want to talk about. I don't know, maybe I'm wrong. It's hard to distinguish between the drug and the placebo effect.''
Trifiletti's Pandas-like disease was so vaguely formulated that it was impossible to rule out. There was no way to know whether the antibiotics were really doing the work or serving as placebos. Then again, even the benefits of therapy could be considered a placebo effect: to believe in mass hysteria is to believe in the power of the mind to convince itself of almost anything.
Jennifer McVige, the neurologist at Dent who has been treating many of the girls, told me she was seeing dramatic improvements in many of the girls as well, especially after news outlets took down videos showing them experiencing tics. But she also suggested that their recovery would probably come in fits and starts. ''It'll get better and then something stressful will happen -- a breakup or the loss of a family member -- and those physical sensations could start coming back,'' she said.
McVige is young and warm and won some girls' trust even before they could accept what she had to say. ''I love her,'' Lydia Parker had said to me. ''I just don't like the diagnosis.''
McVige's approach has been to offer them cognitive behavioral therapy, psychological counseling, antidepressants and exhaustive testing. ''If you come off saying, 'It's in your head, you have to deal with it,' people don't want to hear that,'' McVige said. ''The first thing you need to do is say: 'No, you're right. There is a problem. The first thing I'll do is make sure there's nothing metabolic or organic or infectious.' '' McVige checked their thyroid, their hemoglobin, their drug levels and their strep exposure, as well as other possibilities, and encouraged the girls' families to seek out other infectious-disease specialists for further confirmation.
She also found a way to talk about conversion disorder that put it on a continuum with other, less threatening forms of stress-induced illness. ''I also work with migraine patients, and I tell the girls, the first thing we talk to migraine patients about is their level of stress,'' McVige said. While the girls waited for various test results, she asked them to keep a diary and write down anything that was on their minds. ''If there's nothing there, great, no harm done -- but nobody ever got harmed by taking a good hard look at your life,'' she said. Even some of the girls who do not subscribe to the diagnosis of conversion disorder -- Katie, for example -- have been receiving therapy in addition to taking antibiotics. And slowly, McVige feels, more and more of her own patients have started to accept that their life stressors might be connected to their symptoms.
The day after Trifiletti announced his findings on television, Thera was in high spirits, feeling so strong that she went to the basketball game where her team would be cheering. Maybe she was relieved that there was some resolution to her illness, a way forward that did not entail believing that her symptoms were purely psychological or that the rest of her classmates would soon fall ill from environmental toxins. After months of missed school, she started returning for a few hours a week and even felt up to working with a friend on her ''individual,'' a performance that cheerleaders give at games, solo, in practice for possible competition.
Thera was still too weak to do the splits and jumps of her teammates, but she looked confident when she took the floor at halftime for her individual routine. A few girls chanted her name: Thera, Thera, Thera.
In the middle of the gym, with everyone's eyes on her, she didn't look vulnerable or troubled or like someone who would be the subject of intense media fascination. She looked like a lovely girl who could dance, surrounded by the community who knew her as a person before everyone else came to know her as a cheerleader with tics.
The music started. She raised her hands up in the air, then turned around and looked sweetly back at the crowd. Watching her dance, it was easy to feel optimistic about her future. Thera would get better. And surely, the other girls would follow.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lydia Parker, foreground, at home with her sister. She got one of the bruises on her face when an uncontrollable tic caused her to hit herself with her cellphone. (MM28-MM29)
The A-student: Katie Krautwurst, a cheerleader, was one of the first girls at the high school to come down with the unusual, debilitating symptoms. (MM31)
The new girl: Chelsey Dumars and her daughter. (MM33)
 Main Street: The median income in Le Roy, N.Y., has fallen relative to the rest of the country since 1980. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GILLIAN LAUB FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM35) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%); FLOUR MILLING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



436 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: The Prestige Chase Is Raising College Costs

BYLINE: By ROBERT H. FRANK. 
Robert H. Frank is an economics professor at the Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University.

 BODY:
WITH ample reason, President Obama has grown impatient with my industry.
In a recent speech at the University of Michigan, he said that while most new jobs in coming decades would require college training, access to higher education is increasingly threatened by runaway tuition growth. ''We're putting colleges on notice: you can't assume that you'll just jack up tuition every single year,'' he said. ''If you can't stop tuition from going up, then the funding you get from taxpayers each year will go down.''
Because annual federal subsidies to higher education exceed $30 billion, the speech got college administrators' attention. Yet some experts remain skeptical. Diane Ravitch, for example, the New York University professor and former assistant secretary of education, has urged college presidents to resist the ''accountability juggernaut.'' 
Higher education has long been a primary source of America's competitive advantage, so government officials would be wise to proceed cautiously. But an examination of the economic forces that have shaped the higher-education market in recent decades suggests that there may be promising opportunities to curb tuition growth.
Some of that growth has resulted from a phenomenon called Baumol's disease, after the economist William J. Baumol, who described it in a 1965 article he wrote with William G. Bowen. The basic idea is that while productivity gains have made it possible to assemble cars with only a tiny fraction of the labor that was once required, it still takes four musicians nine minutes to perform Beethoven's String Quartet No. 4 in C minor, just as it did in the 19th century.
College instruction more closely resembles a musical performance than an auto assembly line. Although information technologies have yielded some productivity growth in academia, instruction still takes place largely as it always has.
To recruit professors, universities must pay salaries roughly in line with those made possible by productivity growth in other sectors. So while rising salaries needn't lead to higher prices in many industries, they do in academia and many other service industries.
Because universities are already rushing to use technologies for improving faculty productivity -- for example, Web-based review sessions and homework evaluation -- subsidy reductions won't encourage much additional progress against Baumol's disease. But there's a second major source of tuition growth that universities are less able to ameliorate on their own: the escalating competition for academic prestige.
This phenomenon is rooted in the growing disparities in graduates' starting salaries, which resemble those we've seen for the country as a whole. After adjusting for inflation, starting salaries for most graduates have remained essentially stagnant for several decades, while those at the bottom of the group have actually declined. Only the highest-paid graduates have enjoyed significant salary growth, and among those a very thin slice at the top has seen truly spectacular increases.
Because of the bitter competition for those premium salaries, elite educational credentials are often a precondition for even landing a job interview. With so many applications for every vacancy, many consulting firms and investmentbanks, for example, now consider only candidates from a short list of top-ranked schools.
Degrees from those schools clearly open doors. For example, more than 40 percent of the 2007 graduating class at Princeton landed one of the most highly sought prizes: a position in the lucrative financial services industry.
Universities have responded vigorously to escalating student demands for elite degrees. Their main strategy has been to bid more aggressively for the most distinguished researchers, which explains not only the rapid salary growth for top faculty members in the last several decades, but also the fact that teaching loads at many elite schools have decreased by more than 25 percent. Similar, albeit smaller, changes in salaries and workloads have percolated throughout higher education.
Yet no matter how much universities might spend in pursuit of elite status, only 10 percent at any moment can end up in the top 10 percent. To be sure, the additional expense has not been pure waste. Professors now publish more papers and in the process have generated at least some useful new ideas. But most of their best ideas would have made it into print anyway.
Richard H. Thaler, a former colleague at Cornell and another contributor to the Economic View column, once remarked about an unsuccessful candidate for a faculty position, ''What his resume lacked was five bad papers.'' By that, he meant that while the candidate had published several papers containing enough genuinely important ideas to satisfy any rational hiring committee -- more than could be said of most faculty members -- he had too few to satisfy the bean counters, who fretted about how uninformed outsiders might react to the appointment.
Researchers have responded as expected to these incentives. But the additional papers they've written have added little value. The economist Philip Cook and I found, for example, that in the first five years after publication, many fewer than half of all papers in the two most selective economics journals had ever been cited by other scholars.
TYING federal subsidies to tuition growth would dampen a university's incentive to bid for prestige in much the same way that league-imposed salary penalties in professional sports help curb the bidding wars for superstars. But if the starting-salary gap keeps widening between the highest- and lowest-paid college graduates, this remedy's effectiveness would be temporary at best.
We might consider taking more direct aim at the component of tuition inflation that is attributable to growing salary gaps. Raising taxes on top salaries would be a good idea for American society in general, and not just for higher education. It would not only shrink the effect of salary disparities, but would also generate some much-needed revenue.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RICHARD BORGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (85%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (64%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (64%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (64%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



437 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Mitt's Rich Predicament

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
MITT ROMNEY may be as close to a walking, talking dollar sign as presidential politics has ever witnessed. If money were made flesh, it would apparently have fair skin, flawless hair and an off-key tropism toward patriotic anthems.
I say that only partly because of all of those awkward asides of his, the ones that keep reminding voters, who need no further reminding, that he's loaded. And I'm not really focused on just how loaded he is. With a personal net worth in the vicinity of $225 million, Romney is no Warren Buffett, no Bill Gates. There have been more affluent candidates for the presidency. For lesser offices, too. Michael Bloomberg could buy and sell Romney several times over and still have enough left for a couple of Cadillacs.
But every discussion of Romney's campaign, no matter the angle, winds up referring to riches. It's uncanny. Wealth is the Go on the Monopoly board of Mitt: you're either starting there, heading there or circling past it. If only you collected $200 each time. 
His detractors, citing his personal awkwardness and policy flip-flops, believe that money is the only reason he's doing as well as he is, which isn't as well as he'd hoped. His campaign's fund-raising total of nearly $75 million by the end of February dwarfs those of his Republican rivals, and that's not counting the coffers of the super PAC supporting him. The two treasuries combined fuel a spending juggernaut.
But they also hammer home the image of him as the designated frontman of the moneyed establishment: Mammon's missionary. At a time of populist rancor and class resentment, that's no asset, and some of his supporters believe it's holding him back.
The truth lies in between. Romney's presidential bid, a fascinating commentary on wealth in politics, suggests various ways in which a financial advantage can curdle into something more complicated, a tactical blessing turned optical curse.
Last week provided fresh examples of just how thoroughly money defines him. On Friday morning, the banner headline atop the Politico Web site was this: ''Romney calls in cash cavalry.'' The story below it pegged him as someone who could marshal greenbacks at will and noted that his campaign and super PAC together deployed $32.7 million in January alone.
To secure his squeaker of a victory in Ohio last week, he outspent Rick Santorum, who took second, by about four to one. That sort of disparity repeatedly diminishes the sense of accomplishment surrounding each Romney win. It's the cloud within the sterling silver lining.
Recent analyses of individual contributions to his campaign underscore just how affluent his backers are. Citing numbers through the end of January, The Times's Nicholas Confessore and Ashley Parker reported that about 40 percent of his donors had given the primary-season maximum of $2,500. In comparison, just 9 percent of Santorum's donors, 8 percent of Newt Gingrich's and 4 percent of Ron Paul's had hit the limit.
Individual donations of less than $200 accounted for only 10 percent of Romney's total haul, while they represented 48 percent of Gingrich's, 49 percent of Santorum's and 46 percent of Paul's.
Exit polls in Ohio confirmed that Romney's support among primary voters rises steeply in higher income brackets. And there was yet more evidence last week that for Romney holdouts, his riches are a barrier. An NBC/Wall Street Journal poll asked Republican primary voters which of six concerns about Romney was their greatest. That he's ''too wealthy and does not relate to the average person'' ranked second, behind only ''he waffles on the issues.'' Dead last was that ''his Mormon religious beliefs will be out of the mainstream.''
Money typically helps a candidate, at least at the outset. The rich man or woman more quickly gets an initial hearing, more easily connects with donors of means, more readily finds time to stump and can often frame a fortune as a measure of mettle, a sign of know-how.
But during the 2010 election cycle, one rich candidate after another -- including would-be senators Carly Fiorina in California, Linda McMahon in Connecticut and Jeff Greene in Florida -- failed, despite their efforts to turn affluence into a kind of populism by stressing the time they'd spent outside government, in a private-sector realm of results and common sense. Meg Whitman burned through more than $140 million of her own money in the course of losing the California governor's race to Jerry Brown by almost 13 points.
Unlike Romney, those four were politicos-come-lately, with no prior experience in office. Like him, they had savvy opponents who raised pointed questions about how the candidates accrued their fortunes. They failed to cast their wealth in a positive light.
Which is indeed doable, said Chris Lehane, a Democratic strategist who worked to defeat Whitman. He mentioned Bloomberg's emphasis on philanthropy and on the independence that can come with not being economically beholden to anybody.
But while Romney, too, has been notably generous, the primary beneficiary has been the Mormon Church. Perhaps because of that, he's not as vocal about his giving as he might be.
As for independence, ''The Republican primary is a sprint to the right,'' Lehane noted. ''You can't establish independence.''
Romney's own clumsiness has worsened matters. Instead of smartly releasing his tax returns in the dead of night during a summer lull, he hemmed, hawed and ensured a protracted debate about tax equity in America.
That debate rages still, drowning out realities that potentially flatter him. His support from the highest-earning voters, for example, can be described instead as support from the best-educated ones: the groups overlap. While his tax plan is indeed indulgent of the wealthy, it's no more so than Santorum's or Gingrich's.
If he makes it to the general election, it's not at all certain that he'd do financial laps around President Obama. Obama's campaign has raised nearly twice what his has, and the president has invited super PAC help as well.
Romney's no profligate hedonist. He plays golf with clubs from Kmart, as Parker and Michael Barbaro reported in The Times. One Republican who knows him well told me: ''He almost never flies first class. Thinks it's a waste of money. Loves JetBlue. Loves JetBlue.''
His political fate depends largely on whether he can persuade voters of that. On Monday Ann Romney tried to help, telling Fox News, ''How I measure riches is by the friends I have and the loved ones I have.''
Three days later, in Mississippi, her husband told voters, ''I'm learning to say y'all and I like grits.''
He added, ''Strange things are happening to me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN WISEMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); FUNDRAISING (70%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%); BILL GATES (54%); WARREN BUFFETT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



438 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; REPLY ALL LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: The 2.26.12 Issue

 BODY:
EIGHT DAYS A WEEK
Stella McCartney was born with a platinum spoon in her mouth and is under no pressure to do anything at all. Yet she has worked hard to become quite accomplished in her own right. Hard to find fault with that. It's a tribute to both her and Sir Paul.
TRK, Ashburn, Va., posted on nytimes.com 
Those shoes. Why do women feel as if they have to teeter around on 4-, 5- or 6-inch heels? Stella is a fashion mogul, a person in power. Could you imagine a man giving up his power by having to focus on walking in shoes like that? It's the 21st-century version of Chinese foot binding.
DEBRA, posted on nytimes.com
''I always say there's this kind of hidden ghetto side to Stella.'' Say what? Stella McCartney sounds lovely. Gwyneth Paltrow? Not so much. I'm rather surprised to learn that they're such good friends and that Gwyneth Paltrow is an expert on all things ''ghetto.''
A READER, Detroit, posted on nytimes.com
SCOTT RITTER'S OTHER WAR
It's clear from this story that Scott Ritter has problems. Big problems. He's a pervert who has earned his stint in jail. . . . Still, it's interesting to contemplate part of his point here: that no prominent figures who argued for the war in Iraq have suffered for the disaster they visited upon this country. Rick Santorum, a big and unrepentant Iraq war hawk, a senator who voted for the war, is a leading candidate for the G.O.P. nomination. Mitt Romney likes every position on the Iraq war and has among his elite national security advisers two men -- Eliot Cohen and Robert Kagan -- who were leading Iraq war proponents among the policy elite. The fact that Iraq isn't even an issue in the G.O.P. primary race tells you that the American public, or at least G.O.P. voters, aren't interested in learning any lessons from the Iraq debacle.
ROD DREHER, theamericanconservative.com
I saw Scott Ritter as one of the few real heroes in the public sphere for speaking out against the Bush administration's ginned-up Iraq invasion and subsequent war. He put everything at risk to keep challenging the W.M.D. story line, to avoid war and promote democracy. Unfortunately, he has not been able to combat his personal demons. And like Bill Clinton and Eliot Spitzer, he somehow misses that his personal acts aren't done in isolation -- those closest to him, those who love him, also pay.
ANN, California, posted on nytimes.com
It's hard to see why a man who is prepared to make up a false identity in order to seek out under-age children should be treated as a heroic truth teller. Yes, the failure to discover weapons of mass destruction in Iraq was a serious and damaging national security blunder, but there is no apparent reason why Ritter, with his contempt for inconvenient facts and his penchant for conspiracy theories, should be hailed for getting that right when he got so much else wrong. Ritter clearly remains driven, but his drive is not for truth but for vindication. It's vindication that he does not deserve.
JACOB LASKIN, frontpagemag.com
WHAT'S WITH THE MUSTACHE?
I empathize with Etgar Keret's conflicted feelings about the plight of the hirsute. I have had a beard for more than 20 years. A few years back, eager for some change, I shaved it down to stubble. My 14-year-old son looked at me quizzically. ''Different, huh?'' I asked. ''Not really,'' he replied. ''I just never realized you had a double chin.'' The beard is fuller again and will remain so until my death.
TOM HAYOWYK, Somers, Conn.
A SCORSESE IN LAGOS
While both Hollywood and Nollywood create mainly garbage, Nigerian films are at least exuberant garbage. By contrast, the endless predictable sequels and other dreary ''entertainment'' commodities that Hollywood churns out are elevated only by their budgets; that is, they are professionally rendered trash. Nigerian films are much more honestly bad. That doesn't make them any better as ''art,'' but they do have an innocence that I find admirable. So I applaud the efforts of Kunle Afolayan even as I suspect he will fail to find an audience outside Africa. The larger failure could be if he actually does.
MAX ALEXANDER, South Thomaston, Me., posted on nytimes.com
ACCOUNTANTS HAVE DREAMS, TOO
The weakness in an economic system that increasingly demands that young people work for little or nothing is that most of the young people willing to do this come from families that can support them. Far from creating a huge talent pool from which employers can promote top talents, this limits the talent on offer. Not many poor people can afford months of an internship.
ANNE THACKRAY, Toronto

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER) GRAPHICS: ANALYTICS: This Week in Outrage
 'So charming to watch my Beatlefan husband read every word of the @StellaMcCartney article in The Times this morning.' @pamelaandedward, Twitter 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); IRAQ WAR (87%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); NATIONAL SECURITY (63%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); ELIOT SPITZER (50%); RICK SANTORUM (50%); MITT ROMNEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



439 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Lost Generations

BYLINE: By GARY SERNOVITZ. 
Gary Sernovitz, the author of ''Great American Plain'' and ''The Contrarians,'' recently completed his latest novel, ''Like People Who Dream.''

 BODY:
When an adviser to President Obama was quoted in The New Yorker as saying that the administration's policy in Libya was ''leading from behind,'' he initiated a season of hand-wringing about American decline, as if he had announced that the president was implementing a secret plan to make a second-rate country even worse. But whether America is leading from -- or falling -- behind affects more than our foreign policy. It also affects how it feels to be an American, which is a central concern of American novelists. 
LEAVING THE ATOCHA STATION (Coffee House Press, paper, $15), Ben Lerner's remarkable first novel, published last year, is a bildungsroman and meditation and slacker tale fused by a precise, reflective and darkly comic voice. It is also a revealing study of what it's like to be a young American abroad. The plotting is scant. Adam Gordon, a poet, having bluffed his way into a fellowship in Madrid, makes friends, struggles with Spanish, smokes hash, wanders around, writes poetry, doubts poetry and has two low-energy love affairs. But the real action of the novel is interior. Gordon has two struggles: the classic one, to live authentically, and an aesthetic one, to represent ''the texture of et cetera itself,'' with a poetry that transcends mere snapshots of localized events and attempts to capture the hum and buzz of ''life's white machine.'' To Gordon, these struggles are the same: ''I wondered if the incommensurability of language and experience was new, if my experience of my experience issued from a damaged life of pornography and privilege, if there were happy ages when the starry sky was the map of all possible paths, or if this division of experience into what could not be named and what could not be lived just was experience, for all people for all time.''
In a book soaked in references to art and literature, there is no evident allusion to another short first novel centered on a young Midwesterner in Spain: ''The Sun Also Rises,'' published in 1926. Lerner's novel could have the same epigraph as Ernest Hemingway's -- Gertrude Stein: ''You are all a lost generation'' -- and both books remind us that if you are far from home, alienated from life's clean meaning, unfulfilled in love, and have a lot of time on your hands, you can at least make the days pass by being stoned, drunk or both. Yet even if Hemingway's hero is from Kansas City, Mo., and Adam Gordon is from Topeka, Kan., about 60 miles away, a gulf separates their experiences and points of view. For Hemingway's characters, the traumatic event beneath their alienation is World War I. For Lerner's narrator, the traumatic event is the lack of a traumatic event: ''While Spain was voting, I was checking e-mail.'' To Gordon, his fellow Americans' ''soft version of self-imposed exile was just another of late empire's packaged tours.''
In ''The Sun Also Rises,'' American competence and power go unquestioned. Jake Barnes, its hero, knows Spanish and Spain and how things work. He pays his bills. He has passed the ''oral spiritual examination'' of bullfighting's true aficionados. The Americans in the novel aren't exemplary: Barnes is impotent, from a war wound; Robert Cohn is creepy in his unrequited love for Brett, Lady Ashley. Nonetheless, they are the strong ones -- Cohn punches well and often -- and the Europeans who aren't peasants (and thus simple and good) are mocked or pitied for their corruption, decadence and weakness.
The condescension is reversed in ''Leaving the Atocha Station.'' This partly follows the development of Spain, a country now known less for bullfights than for deconstructed foam appetizers. (It is also, granted, a country that seems at risk of going bankrupt, as Mike Campbell did in ''The Sun Also Rises,'' ''two ways . . . gradually and then suddenly.'') But the rebalancing of pity is also a comment on America. Through much of Lerner's novel, Adam Gordon is comically incompetent, getting lost in Spain's history, language and occasionally its streets. Yet Spaniards react to Gordon's foolishness with amused mercy, viewing him as a sweet child or ''a drunken American idiot brought to the party as a joke.'' Even Gordon's worst lie, that his mother is dead, is later brushed off by Teresa, one of his semi-lovers, as a statement that was never worth believing. America is not a generic country without context in the novel; Gordon's other semi-lover dryly tells him, ''I'm sure the people of Iraq are looking forward to your poem about Franco and his economy.'' But we are in a world far different from Hemingway's, where a Basque peasant brags of all the American cities he has visited. We are far from Whit Stillman's mordant 1994 film ''Barcelona,'' in which two Americans must absorb lots of anti-American barbs and one anti-American bullet. In ''Leaving the Atocha Station,'' we inhabit a world where Americans' Americanness is an interesting but inessential fact.
Comparing characters across novels is a tricky business; it doesn't mean a lot that Madame Bovary is not Huckleberry Finn. Yet for America, the path from ''The Sun Also Rises'' to ''Leaving the Atocha Station'' seems frighteningly downward. Once we were men who beat up bullfighters. Now, when bad, we make unauthorized charges on our parents' credit cards. That lament, however, ignores the optimism that comes, unexpectedly, in ''Leaving the Atocha Station.'' In ''The Sun Also Rises,'' Barnes's words and thoughts seem freighted with deep, unarticulated pain; Hemingway's novel is, in some ways, about the spaces between words -- what cannot be said. Lerner is also concerned with ineffability, but Adam Gordon (and the author) fight back with more words, with attempts at ''language becoming the experience it described.'' The ultimate product of Gordon's success is the novel itself. It is also a strengthening poetry that we rarely see but intuitively, like the Spaniards in the novel, admire. Importantly, his progress as an artist comes entwined with learning to ''live in this language'' of Spanish, with having a more honest relationship with Teresa (formidably competent in all things) and with abandoning his emotional isolationism. Only with that -- and maybe because of that -- does he rise to Teresa's challenge to ''stop pretending that you're only pretending to be a poet.''
In the final scene of ''The Sun Also Rises,'' Jake Barnes, in Madrid, rides in a taxi with Lady Ashley, both more broken than when the novel began and both just as alone. The book ends with Barnes's ironic, stoic, tragic response to Ashley's wistful insistence that they could have had a good time together: ''Isn't it pretty to think so?'' Eighty years later, in that same city, Adam Gordon concludes his story with more hope: ''Teresa would read the originals and I would read the translations and the translations would become the originals as we read. Then I planned to live forever in a skylit room surrounded by my friends.'' Whether it's dangerously naive or necessarily modest for Americans, in life, in foreign policy, to seek that skylit room is an open question. But as a dream that more collaborative days are ahead of us, well, isn't it pretty to think so?

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAVIER JAEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); WRITERS (90%); POETRY (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LITERATURE (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%); WORLD WAR I (50%)

COMPANY: COFFEE HOUSE PRESS (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOPEKA, KS, USA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (77%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (50%) MIDWEST USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (67%); KANSAS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (91%)

TITLE: Leaving the Atocha Station (Book); Sun Also Rises, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



440 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Confident Men

BYLINE: By PAUL M. BARRETT. 
Paul M. Barrett, an assistant managing editor of Bloomberg Businessweek, is the author, most recently, of ''Glock: The Rise of America's Gun.''

 BODY:
THE ESCAPE ARTISTS
How Obama's Team Fumbled the Recovery
By Noam Scheiber
351 pp. Simon & Schuster. $28.
Last fall saw the publication of ''Confidence Men,'' a headline-/generating account of the first two years of economic policy making in the Obama White House by Ron Suskind, a leading /inside-Washington writer. In ''The Escape Artists,'' Noam Scheiber, a senior editor at The New Republic, covers many of the same meetings, egos and behind-the-scenes debates. In both books, the president comes across as cerebral, well intentioned and initially naive -- no match for obstructionist Republicans in Congress. Both authors portray Obama's former chief economic adviser, Lawrence Summers, as the quintessential turf-obsessed senior White House aide. Scheiber also shares Suskind's disappointment that the Obama administration did not act more aggressively to combat the economic crisis it inherited from George W. Bush. 
If you favor cinematic flourish in your fly-on-the-wall Washington narrative, you might stick with Suskind, who has a more vivid, if occasionally overwrought, style. What Scheiber offers is a judicious, nuanced and ultimately more persuasive chronicle of how contentious experts jockeyed to influence a young president stuck with an almost impossible set of chal/lenges. The characters in ''The Escape Artists'' are not Suskind's resentful con men. As a result, Scheiber's story is less likely to provide the basis for a Hollywood movie script. But maybe that's the strength of this appropriately sober book.
The broad outline of the tale is by now familiar. After campaigning as a post-/partisan candidate who would somehow transcend Washington's dysfunction, Obama arrived to find Wall Street on life support, a recession far worse than he (and many economists) had anticipated and Republican legislative leaders more concerned with undermining the Democratic president than entertaining any form of compromise. Rather than signal a fresh start by choosing economic advisers from the leftward ranks of his party -- Joseph Stiglitz, say, or Robert Reich -- Obama leaned on Summers and Timothy Geithner, men associated with the deregulatory initiatives of the Clinton era that helped pave the way for investment bank excess and subprime delusion.
Where Suskind sees a president ''systematically undermined or hedged'' by aides more loyal to Wall Street than to their elected boss, Scheiber describes a less malign White House team weighing solutions that differ in subtle degree, not basic ideology. Consider the authors' treatment of the proposal to forcibly restructure the most troubled megabanks, beginning with Citigroup. Obama expressed tentative interest in this risky option, even though it would enmesh the federal government more deeply in managing toxic real estate securities and give Republicans an opening to argue that bank ''nationalization'' amounted to rank socialism. In Suskind's telling, Geithner, as Treasury secretary, willfully ignored the idea, defying the president and possibly committing ''fireable offenses'' that were ''perilously close to insubordination.'' Exciting stuff!
In Scheiber's version, Geithner was simply doing his job. He resisted the Citigroup restructuring because it might rattle investors into dumping not only Citigroup stock but also the shares of other large banks, leading to a new round of financial panic. Bruised by the fallout from the failure of Lehman Brothers in the fall of 2008, Geithner was reluctant to impose losses on investors. ''We're not going to do it,'' Scheiber quotes him as telling a deputy. ''It would hurt our credibility deeply.'' Scheiber's account lacks the thrilling whiff of White House staff mutiny; the reader will have to decide which version rings true. (Geithner has denied that he obstructed any presidential instruction, and Obama reportedly lobbied him last year to remain as Treasury secretary, which Geithner agreed to do.)
Scheiber stresses explicit differences of policy and philosophical temperament rather than ephemeral personality clashes. ''Geithner's problem wasn't so much any one decision as his absolutism, his conviction that anything that might cause the banks discomfort could tip the whole financial system back into chaos,'' Scheiber writes. ''This was perhaps defensible, perhaps even necessary, immediately after Lehman. But over time it became a crutch, more a matter of emotion than case-by-case judgment.''
Geithner's muddle-through mentality restrained Obama's inclination to satisfy popular demand for Wall Street heads on a platter. In exchange for hundreds of billions of federal bailout dollars, major financial institutions could have been forced to accept more stringent regulation, like stiffer capital requirements that would make future crises less likely to spread. The White House could even have sought the ouster of a particularly foolhardy chief executive officer as a condition of continuing to prop up his bank. In 2009, Obama's aides discussed forcing the C.E.O. of Bank of America, Ken Lewis, to walk the plank. Lewis, as Scheiber notes, had made such egregious mistakes as the acquisition of Countrywide Financial, a subprime /boiler-room operation that burdened Bank of America with an enormous portfolio of toxic mortgages. The idea of firing a chief executive filled David Axelrod and other Obama political advisers ''with Machiavellian glee,'' Scheiber reports. ''But Geithner dug in and prevailed.''
Alongside practical considerations, like the difficulty in finding anyone sufficiently skilled and masochistic to replace Lewis at the helm of the deeply troubled Bank of America, lay ''a closely held Geithnerian principle,'' Scheiber continues. ''The governments of first-world countries,'' the Treasury secretary believes, ''ceded a patch of high ground any time they behaved capriciously; . . . there were steps it was simply beneath the United States of America to take.'' Such sophisticated analysis of how the nation's most powerful officials think -- however one regards the wisdom of that thinking -- distinguishes Scheiber's book.
Obama's key mistake, Scheiber concludes, was to ''undershoot.'' The president sought too modest an initial stimulus package and didn't fight hard enough for financial regulation that would rein in imperious banks. Scheiber echoes other critics who question Obama's choice to emphasize health care reform rather than concentrate on jobs and the economy. In the end, though, Scheiber acknowledges that once the Republicans won control of the House in 2010, their just-say-no strategy, combined with the sheer depth of the economic hole in which Obama started, may offer the best explanation of the administration's troubled domestic policy record.
Let's not forget that in the winter of 2008, the economy was shrinking at an annualized rate of nearly 9 percent and losing 700,000 jobs a month -- symptoms of an incipient depression. ''That Team Obama helped avert catastrophe,'' Scheiber writes, is ''beyond question.''
The most recent statistics -- released after ''The Escape Artists'' went to press -- show the economy growing, if modestly, and unemployment declining, albeit to a still painful 8.3 percent. With his would-be Republican presidential rivals engaged in a vicious knife fight that shows no sign of ending soon, the president, despite his advisers' foibles, may yet free himself, Houdini-style, to win a second term.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The apprentice: Senator Barack Obama advised by Paul Volcker, former Fed chairman, to the left of Obama in the photo, and Robert Rubin, former Treasury secretary, to the right, in September 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FILM (78%); RECESSION (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); DEREGULATION (69%); NATIONALIZATION (64%); INVESTMENT BANKING (64%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (51%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (51%); C (BMV) (51%); 8710 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Escape Artists, The: How Obama's Team Fumbled the Recovery (Book)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



441 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Centrist Women Tell of Disenchantment With G.O.P.

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY; Reporting was contributed by Rob Davis from San Diego, Dan Frosch from Denver, Ian Lovett from Los Angeles, Malia Wollan from San Francisco and Steven Yaccino from Chicago. Allison Kopicki contributed analysis.

 BODY:
As baby showers go, the party Mary Russell attended to celebrate her niece's first child was sweet, with about a dozen women offering congratulations over ice cream and cake.
But somewhere between the baby name game and the gifts, what had been light conversation took a sharp turn toward the personal and political -- specifically, the battle over access to birth control and other women's health issues that have sprung to life on the Republican campaign trail in recent weeks.
''We all agreed that this seemed like a throwback to 40 years ago,'' said Ms. Russell, 57, a retired teacher from Iowa City who describes herself as an evangelical Christian and ''old school'' Republican of the moderate mold.
Until the baby shower, just two weeks ago, she had favored Mitt Romney for president. 
Not anymore. She said she might vote for President Obama now. ''I didn't realize I had a strong viewpoint on this until these conversations,'' Ms. Russell said. As for the Republican presidential candidates, she added: ''If they're going to decide on women's reproductive issues, I'm not going to vote for any of them. Women's reproduction is our own business.''
In Iowa, one of the crucial battlegrounds in the coming presidential election, and in other states, dozens of interviews in recent weeks have found that moderate Republican and independent women -- one of the most important electoral swing groups -- are disenchanted by the Republican focus on social issues like contraception and abortion in an election that, until recently, had been mostly dominated by the economy.
And in what appears to be an abrupt shift, some Republican-leaning women like Ms. Russell said they might switch sides and vote for Mr. Obama -- if they turn out to vote at all.
The sudden return of the ''culture wars'' over the rights of women and their place in society has resulted, the women said, in a distinct change in mood in the past several weeks. That shift adds yet another element of uncertainty to a race that has been defined by unpredictability, at least for Republicans.
To what extent women feel alienated remains unclear: most interviews for this article were conducted from a randomly generated list of voters who had been surveyed in a recent New York Times/CBS News poll, and their responses are anecdotal, not conclusive. But the latest comments from the Republican candidates and in the right-wing media, aimed at energizing the party's conservative base, have been enraging to some women.
After the talk show host Rush Limbaugh denounced a Georgetown University law student as a ''slut'' and a ''prostitute'' for her advocacy of insurance coverage of contraception, some women were critical of Mr. Romney's tepid response.
Rick Santorum, a former senator from Pennsylvania who is one of Mr. Romney's rivals for the nomination, created a tempest late last month by speaking out against prenatal testing. Earlier comments about women in combat and the role of ''radical feminism'' in encouraging work outside the home also left some women ill at ease.
''Everybody is so busy telling us how we should act in the bedroom, they're letting the country fall through the cracks,'' said Fran Kelley, a retired public school worker in Seattle who voted for Senator John McCain over Mr. Obama in the 2008 election. Of the Republican candidates this year, she added, ''They're nothing but hatemongers trying to control everyone, saying, 'Live as I live.' ''
She continued, ''If Republicans would stop all this ridiculous talk about contraception, I'd consider voting in November.''
From 1992 to 2008, Democrats won the overall women's vote in every presidential election.
But in the 2010 midterm election, women swung to the Republicans. Now there are signs of another shift: in a New York Times/CBS News poll last month, the president finished ahead of Mr. Romney among all women by 57 percent to 37 percent. He held much the same advantage over Mr. Santorum.
But how moderate Republican women gauge social issues as a factor in voting is unclear. Nor have there been many women at the Republican primaries who consider themselves moderate.
Last week Joyce Kimball, a retired secretary in Greenville, Ill., who voted for Mr. McCain in 2008, said she had recently become ''fed up,'' adding that it was not out of the question for her to vote for a Democrat in November. ''I'm looking to hear how the candidates propose to put people back to work, not what they think about contraception,'' she said. ''I hope to God they stop talking about this.''
Kirsten Kukowski, a spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee, said the party intended to focus on women's issues as they relate to the economy to win in November. ''It's the kitchen table issues, the cost of milk and gas,'' she said. ''That's what we are going to be talking about.''
Even more than Mr. Romney, Mr. Santorum has made himself a champion of the traditional family with two parents, arguing in speeches that single motherhood increases a child's chances of poverty and related problems.
The stance particularly vexes Meredith Warren, a Republican strategist in Andover, Mass. ''Well, guess what?'' she said. ''There are a lot of single moms out there. That's reality. I don't think he does himself any favors denigrating that situation.''
Ms. Warren said her job had not been made any easier lately. ''A lot of my younger friends are Democrats, and it's hard for them to understand how, as a woman, you can be a member of the Republican Party,'' she said.
Deborah R. Stevens, a self-described ''dyed in the wool'' Republican, said she felt hopeless.
''I'm looking for a candidate that will be honest, that will come out and say, 'Yes, I support women, I want you advanced and not trampled upon,' '' said Ms. Stevens, 63, who lives near Myrtle Beach, S.C. ''I want answers desperately. I want candidates to tell me, 'I'm not overturning Roe v. Wade.' It's there. Leave it there.''
Ms. Russell, who changed her political views at the baby shower, said she was impressed with how Mr. Obama handled his administration's compromise over the much-debated birth control policy, saying, ''I think he's more of a women's candidate.''
Mr. Romney's reaction to Mr. Limbaugh's statements about the Georgetown student cemented a negative view of him. ''I expected him to have the guts to stand up and say what Rush did was wrong,'' she said. ''Wrong, wrong, wrong in every sense of the word wrong.''
A rally for women's rights in San Diego on Thursday drew Jessica Lopez, 27, a registered independent who said she voted for President George W. Bush in 2004. Ms. Lopez said her choice this year became clear amid the Republican debate on contraception and abortion. ''This has really energized me, that I need to get more involved with the Obama campaign,'' she said.
Ms. Lopez added: ''The G.O.P. has never been so clear about their agenda for women. I'm afraid if we get a Republican president, my health will be up to their personal discretion.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lynn Leseth in San Diego on Thursday at the Rally for Women's Rights, which denounced efforts to limit reproductive freedoms. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM HODGSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mary Russell, top, of Iowa City and Jessica Lopez of San Diego have previously voted Republican, but may vote for President Obama this year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW HOLST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 SAM HODGSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WOMEN (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); INTERVIEWS (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (76%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (76%); CONTRACEPTION (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (73%); RELIGION (69%); ABORTION (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%); MITT ROMNEY (71%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



442 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Obama Campaign Plans Big Effort to Court Women

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama's re-election campaign is beginning an intensified effort this week to build support among women, using the debate over the new health care law to amplify an appeal that already appears to be benefiting from partisan clashes over birth control and abortion.
On Monday, mailings will go out to one million women in more than a dozen battleground states in three separate versions for mothers, young women and older women, campaign and party officials said.
An effort called ''Nurses for Obama'' will begin on Wednesday, with nurses nationwide enlisted to be advocates for the health care law in their communities. And a new Web site will include links to video testimonials about the health care overhaul signed by Mr. Obama in 2010, including from a former critic who subsequently was found to have breast cancer. 
Through the month, ending with what the campaign's headquarters has designated a ''Women's Week of Action,'' campaign field offices will organize phone banks, campus activities, house parties and media events featuring local residents helped by the law, officials say.
The campaign is trying to use the political climate to regain the traditional Democratic advantage among women, even as moderate Republican and independent women voice disenchantment with the Republican focus on social issues.
Women were 53 percent of the national vote in 2008, and given Mr. Obama's and his party's continuing weakness among white men, they are crucial to his re-election. Though Mr. Obama won 56 percent of their votes four years ago, women narrowly went for Republicans in the 2010 midterm elections that cost Democrats control of the House.
The campaign's effort to rally women around the health care law had been long planned, to coincide with the second anniversary of Mr. Obama signing it on March 23, campaign officials said. But the effort has gained intensity, they added, because of recent controversies over contraception, abortion and education in Washington and in state capitals that have energized people in the campaign's far-flung field offices who are essential to putting any national strategy into action.
For example, in New Hampshire, a swing state, the seven field offices will hold 16 phone banks to contact female voters about the benefits for them in the health care law. On Wednesday, when the ''Nurses for Obama'' effort is to be announced, nurses in New Hampshire will be making the calls, field organizers say.
In Virginia, another battleground, Barbara Kanninen volunteered a month ago to help lead a ''Women for Obama'' network and said ''it's growing fast'' thanks to the debates in Washington and Richmond. ''The conversations at these house parties are very much dominated by women concerned about all this,'' said Ms. Kanninen, a freelance economist and mother of two teenage boys. Her own house party drew women that she did not know and three members of her choral group with whom she had never discussed politics, Ms. Kanninen said, and each day brings at least one new message of interest on her Facebook page from some woman who has heard of the group.
''Up until six weeks ago, Democrats suffered from an intensity gap, but this has closed as women -- particularly suburban women -- have turned against the G.O.P.,'' said Peter D. Hart, a Democratic pollster who is not affiliated with the campaign.
Some Republicans and independent analysts say the current debate over social issues will fade soon, trumped by whatever happens with the economy. ''Nobody thinks it will matter in a couple months,'' said Vin Weber, a Republican lobbyist and former congressman. ''I certainly don't.''
But other Republicans are worried.
''The whole party's image has taken a beating,'' said John Feehery, a public affairs consultant in Washington and a senior aide to Congressional Republican leaders through the 1990s. Mr. Feehery called a recent essay on his Web site that offered advice to other Republicans, ''Listen to Your Wife.''
Mr. Obama is doing his part to frame the appeal to women. His pitch at a fund-raising rally on Friday night in Houston was typical: He opened an account of his accomplishments by saying, ''Change is the first bill I signed into law that says women deserve an equal day's pay for an equal day's work.''
Mr. Obama closed with the health care law and cited the same points that his campaign is highlighting: an end to insurance company caps on lifetime coverage, mandated coverage for people with pre-existing conditions, the ability of young adults to stay on their parents' policies until age 26, and for preventive services like contraception. ''So when you see politicians who are trying to take us back to the days when this care was more expensive and harder to get for women -- and I know you're seeing some of that here in Texas -- you just remember we can't let them get away with it,'' he said.
Separately on Friday, the administration announced that it would withhold federal money for a Texas program serving low-income women after the Republican-led legislature and Gov. Rick Perry ended financial support for Planned Parenthood because it provides abortions. But its Texas clinics did not; instead, the clinics, some of which have closed, provided other services to many women in the program. Administration officials say Texas' action was illegal.
Both parties date the current focus on reproductive issues to flaps in January over a decision by the Susan G. Komen for the Cure cancer foundation, subsequently reversed, to stop contributing to Planned Parenthood, and a mandate from the Obama administration that employers, including religious-affiliated hospitals, colleges and other institutions, cover contraception in employees' insurance policies.
Then came controversies over Rush Limbaugh's slurs against a female advocate of the contraception policy; actions in Texas, Virginia and other state legislatures against abortion and Planned Parenthood; and statements of Republican presidential candidates seeking the votes of social conservatives, especially Rick Santorum's remarks against contraception and prenatal testing.
Mr. Obama has had his own political balancing act over the issues. Women's groups had opposed any exemption from the requirement under the health care law that insurance policies cover birth control, but Mr. Obama from the start exempted churches and other houses of worship. He did, however, require schools, hospitals and other organizations affiliated with religious groups to cover contraception. When that ignited a furor, Mr. Obama quickly modified it in a compromise with supportive Catholic groups.
Now nonpartisan polls suggest that Republicans are the ones who have been hurt as they have kept the issue alive.
A New York Times/CBS News poll in mid-February showed that women, who in a January poll had disapproved of Mr. Obama's job performance by 48 percent to 46 percent, now approved of him by 53 percent to 38 percent (men disapproved by 49 percent to 45 percent, about the same as the previous month).
A Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll this month showed Mr. Obama ahead of Mr. Romney, the Republican front-runner, by six points; while the president trailed Mr. Romney by six points among men, he had an 18-point advantage among women.
''Women 30 to 55 are always the most important target in health care,'' said Bill McInturff, a Republican pollster who helps conduct the Journal/NBC poll. ''They're caregivers, taking care of children and parents, and are more engaged and active in the health care system, more than any other age and gender. It's not surprising they'd be a target of the Obama administration and campaign on this issue.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); WOMEN (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); NURSES & NURSING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); ABORTION (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); CONTRACEPTION (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); BREAST CANCER (55%); WEB SITES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (51%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



443 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2592 words

HEADLINE: Kingmaker of Little Russia

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
COUNCILMAN LEWIS A. FIDLER peers at the audience in a low-ceilinged room on Coney Island Avenue with the expectant smile of the newly betrothed.
He is running for a State Senate seat and has come to the Davidzon Radio studios on a chill winter afternoon to get the endorsement of political luminaries from the densely Russian Jewish communities of south Brooklyn. A Russian-born assemblyman and Russian-born district leaders sit alongside him. Gregory Davidzon, thick-bodied, white-haired and the owner of this station, presides as the master of ceremonies.
As this is billed as a live radio interview, Mr. Fidler puts the microphone to his mouth. He'll hold that pose for many minutes before he utters a word. For Mr. Davidzon has begun rattling away into his own microphone in raspy, meaty Russian.
Mr. Davidzon, in essence and at much greater length, says this to the audience and his thousands of Russian-language listeners: 
Friends, last year, in 2011, we flexed our muscle and elected a Republican, Bob Turner, to Congress. Now the state Republican Party has disrespected our community by drawing new electoral lines that divide and hurt our community. So we must teach them a lesson they will not forget and vote for Democratic Lew Fidler. He's the right man for our community. Remember: not one Russian vote for his Republican opponent!
Da?
The 90 or so older Russians, some wearing military ribbons from the Great Patriotic War, burst into applause. Mr. Fidler, who does not speak Russian, glances at the interpreter for help. Getting none, he turns and smiles beatifically, figuring that applause is good.
He would be correct. Mr. Davidzon, 53, serves as a kingmaker in Brighton Beach, Sheepshead Bay and Manhattan Beach, the neighborhoods known collectively as Little Russia. A recent census study estimated that 200,000 New Yorkers over age 5 speak Russian. Perhaps 30,000 Russians vote in south Brooklyn, and their electoral clout is indisputable. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, Comptroller John C. Liu, Borough President Marty Markowitz, various state senators and City Council representatives trek to Mr. Davidzon's radio station. Many appear, too, at his exuberant parties at Baku Palace, a vast wedding and bar mitzvah ziggurat of a restaurant on Sheepshead Bay. He and his radio station and newspapers reflect the political coming of age of the Russian community.
Perhaps no race demonstrated that more than last summer's special election for Anthony D. Weiner's former Congressional seat.
It is a historically Democratic district, and the Republican, Bob Turner, began the race as a decided long shot; by the September election, with the help of thousands of Russian voters and a smaller contingent of Orthodox Jews, he had trampled his Democratic opponent, David I. Weprin.
Representative Turner does not hesitate to credit Mr. Davidzon. The reach of Davidzon Radio, he notes, was almost comically broad. Mr. Turner's staff fielded Election Day calls from angry Russian voters in the Bronx who had shown up at polling places demanding the right to ''vote for Bob.''
Mr. Turner's district extends nowhere near the Bronx.
''He would put me in front of the movie theater in Brighton, pick up a megaphone and start calling people to come over and meet me,'' Mr. Turner recalled, laughing. ''I don't know what he said, but I can't overstate his influence.''
Mr. Davidzon, who harbors political ambitions of his own, relies on electoral tools both modern and old-fashioned. He studies electoral districts, sends mailings, unleashes robo-calls and talks up the candidate on his radio show. Unlike more conventional English-language media outlets, he bills most candidates for his post-endorsement services (albeit more modestly than most campaign consultants in New York). He also listens and worries and listens some more. The raccoon circles that ring his brown eyes speak to many 3 a.m. epiphanies.
''We have 5,000 calls per day at this radio station, and I listen to every one,'' he said. ''One wrong step and they call: 'Why you doing this!' And I say: 'Guys, you're right! I was wrong.' ''
He shrugged and said, ''We track community, and the community tracks us.''
New York City politics, however, are an unsentimental game.
The lines of electoral districts at the state and federal levels are being redrawn to reflect population changes. This winter, State Senate Republicans released a proposed redistricting map that would dilute Russian voting power by dividing it among three districts. The Senate Republicans, it turns out, chose to cast their lot with the Orthodox Jews and Hasidim who live farther north. There, the Republicans proposed a so-called super-Jewish district.
Led by Mr. Davidzon, the Russians of Brooklyn hope to exact revenge by backing Mr. Fidler. That decision comes encoded with risk. Mr. Fidler's opponent, David Storobin, is a lawyer and political neophyte; he also is a Russian-born Jew running an energetic campaign.
Mr. Davidzon professes no worry about this election. He points to a sign at his radio station, ''Not One Russian Vote.''
A former Democratic assemblyman who represented Westchester County, Richard L. Brodsky, knows the Russian community; his grandparents hailed from Kiev and Odessa and had built a grand synagogue in Russia. In 2010, Mr. Brodsky ran for attorney general in the Democratic primary. He lost badly, winning four Assembly districts: his own and three majority Russian districts in south Brooklyn, where he had carried the Davidzon endorsement.
''They are existentially angry,'' he said of the Brighton Russians. ''They found that the Republicans and Democrats don't have friends; they have interests.
''This was a coming-of-age tale that turned out badly.''
THE news media sometimes describes Mr. Davidzon as ''a Russian media mogul,'' although in person he's not so mogulish. No Volga Viking, he is a bit portly, sporting a sheepish grin and a shaggy haircut. He speaks in a perpetually hoarse whisper. Only his probing brown eyes, alternating between sad and steely, hint at more.
Davidzon Radio sits on the second floor of a faceless building. Artificial Christmas trees and Balinoff Vodka calendars decorate the offices. Mr. Davidzon says the station breaks even, maybe. He pours money from his profitable Russian-language newspapers into the station; this may have left him more influential than wealthy.
How is your business? He hikes his eyebrows.
''Could be worse,'' he said. ''Radio station is not a business; it's tool.''
Fifteen years ago, few claimed riches here. Brighton Beach Avenue, with its Cyrillic-lettered signs, dowdy clothing stores and grocery stores selling mountains of sausages, pickled vegetables, smoked fish and prepared borscht and pirogi, all in the cool shadows of the elevated subway tracks, had the feel of a shtetl.
That world is fast disappearing. Now, the light pink Oceana condominium complex, with its pool, sculptured gardens, balconies and $1.7 million penthouses, dominates the east end of Brighton. Walk 10 blocks farther, to Sheepshead Bay and Manhattan Beach, and you'll find Russian buyers tearing down old homes and putting up sprawling affairs designed in the Roman Imperial style, with massive bronze crests, spiked gates and enough marble to empty the quarries of Carrara.
This Russian emigre community, thick with doctors, lawyers and scientists, has come into its own. Mr. Davidzon lives in a two-bedroom apartment in a pleasant apartment building east of Coney Island Avenue. He has a stuffed plush tiger, some ornamental dolls in a case and a handsome living room.
He was born in Tashkent, in what is now Uzbekistan, and moved with his mother and geologist father from place to place in the dying days of the Soviet empire. He was a science student and an inventor, matriculating at good schools and applying for patents. ''Jew'' was a word that Soviet bureaucrats all but hung around his neck.
''I would submit scientific articles in English, and it would come back in mail delivered by KGB,'' Mr. Davidzon recalled. ''It was very difficult economically. For me, Soviet Union was a jail.''
He immigrated here and took a computer tech job at Baruch College. Was he anxious about starting over? He shrugged, smiled. He's one immigrant among many; why do you ask. ''I was a father of two, with a wife, new to this country,'' he said. ''Of course I was anxious.''
He made friends, black, white and Asian, and took no vacations. (Time off makes him edgy, he said.) Inventor, entrepreneur, scientist, he's a man perpetually playing four angles and eight projects.
''He's a character on levels I'm probably not even aware of,'' said a politician who has known him for years. ''He'd be a character in Moscow, much less in New York.''
He came to his radio empire almost off hand. His daughter, an opera singer, was in a competition, and he showed up. ''I realized I liked the business,'' he said. ''I asked the owner, 'What do you want ...' ''
Yelena Makhnin, wiry and sharp-eyed, with a wry smile, is executive director of the Brighton Beach Business Improvement District. ''I remember that day he was looking around,'' she said. ''I know Gregory. He is a very fast learner.''
He plunged the radio station into politics. He had a daily show, conducted voter-registration drives on the boardwalk and ran campaigns -- 18 in all. ''For those who cannot speak English well, it's not just about politics,'' he said. ''It makes us full American citizens.''
He's not a Putin-level potentate. The Hasidic Satmar of Williamsburg and the Lubavitchers of Crown Heights vote based on the divinations of a grand rebbe. Not the Russians.
''You can't just tell them: Vote this way,'' Mr. Davidzon said. ''No, no, no. If they don't believe you, they kill you. But if you convince and they believe, they vote in bloc.''
EARLY January, cold and dark and damp, and the doors of the Baku Palace swung open to Brighton and Sheepshead Bay royalty. Men in tuxedos and women in shimmering, form-fitted dresses swept into a purple-lighted ballroom, where Gregory Davidzon celebrated the seventh anniversary of his station.
Platters of the fillets known as langet, chicken a la Baku and blintzes with black caviar were piled high on the tables. A disco ball twirled, and onstage, between silver Christmas trees, a singer with a mohawk spike of blond hair, dressed in tight white leather pants and wearing a black glove, twirled and moonwalked, singing a Kiev-meets-Michael Jackson version of ''Thriller.''
Mr. Davidzon spun like a pinball from couple to couple, pressing hands, leaning in to tell a joke or listen to one, and thanking, thanking, thanking. Assembly and Council representatives showed up, as did Mr. Markowitz and Mr. Liu.
For months, federal prosecutors have been circling the comptroller, making arrests and examining with forensic care his fund-raising operation. Again Mr. Davidzon shrugs.
In this young Chinese-American politician he sees a mirror image of his own consuming hunger and drive. He endorsed Mr. Liu over three Jewish candidates in the 2009 Democratic primary for comptroller. In the runoff, Mr. Davidzon doubled down on his endorsement. The 46th Assembly District covers the thumping heart of Brighton Beach. Mr. Liu, of Queens, edged out David Yassky of Brooklyn, who is Jewish, in that district, and won decisively citywide.
Mr. Davidzon grinned and said, ''Some election districts in Brighton, it was zero for Yassky.'' He made a circle with thumb and forefinger and repeated: ''Zero.''
Mr. Davidzon refuses to toss over Mr. Liu. ''If Chinese people did something wrong, it's because their community just started in politics,'' he said. ''It's like a game they don't understand fully.''
Mr. Davidzon owes his success to a precise understanding of his political landscape. He lives in an age of political dinosaurs, not the least the Brooklyn and Queens Democratic Party machines. County leaders have become distant figures. They are behind-the-curtain players, handpicking candidates, drawing district lines, appointing judges and ensuring that court assignments go to connected lawyers.
Their weakness is on display only on Election Day, when they can rally few of their troops. When Mr. Weiner was forced to resign, the Queens Democratic bosses selected a longtime and obedient soldier to take his place: Assemblyman Weprin.
County, state and national Democratic leaders sluiced hundreds of thousands of dollars into Mr. Weprin's campaign coffers. Much of that money, more thany $170,000, went to consulting firms closely aligned with the Queens Democratic machine. Evan Stavisky, partner in a political consulting firm called the Parkside Group, ran the campaign. A few weeks before the election, Mr. Stavisky boasted of the ''the most robust field program that's ever been conducted in Queens County.''
Mr. Turner, the Republican, raised far fewer dollars. But he ran everywhere, sewed up Orthodox communities and gave about $40,000 to Mr. Davidzon, who treats his endorsements like blood guarantees. ''I believe I could have made more from Weprin,'' Mr. Davidzon said. ''But Bob had energy; he was for less taxes, less bureaucracy.''
Mr. Turner swept the Russian sections of south Brooklyn by at least 2-1.
The victory seemed to herald a new age of Russian political power. But instead it may seal the community's redistricting fate. The Russian political players of south Brooklyn take pride in their unpredictability, as they toggle between parties from election to election.
The career politicians who draw political lines view electoral unpredictability as kryptonite. Why create a Russian district in the State Senate when Russian voters could as easily swing Democratic as Republican?
Gary Tilzer, a journalist and political consultant, has worked with Russian-American candidates for more than a decade. He watches as the community's leaders struggle for minor concessions like Russian-language ballots.
''This is a tragedy,'' he said. ''They work very hard and produce lots of votes, but the parties treat them like serfs.''
The Russians now move in several directions at once. Mr. Davidzon and Assemblyman Alec Brook-Krasny, a Democrat and a Russian-speaking immigrant who owes his own election to Mr. Davidzon, are putting shoulders to the wheel for Mr. Fidler in the coming Senate election. Others -- doctors, lawyers, professors -- talk of creating Russian Jewish political action committees and deploying money carefully.
''As our people move away from the central ghettos, our bloc voting power diminishes, but our economic power grows,'' said Daniel Igor Branovan, a physician and an influential force in this new segment of the community.
Once Mr. Davidzon himself dreamed of running for the State Senate in a majority-Russian district. His prospects are no longer so clear. He speaks English with a heavy accent. His business world remains bound up in the Russian community.
For all his political acuity, he has yet to register to vote. So what does his future hold?
He offered that shrug.
''I think about running, yes,'' he said. ''But where? For what? In my life, I change my environment many times. I was in Russian, scientific, media environment. Maybe time to try political environment.''
But has his time slipped by, as he works so hard? He often calls his friends and allies in the morning's early hours and talks and talks. Mr. Brook-Krasny's furnace burns hard, but when that phone rings, sometimes his friend exhausts even him.
''I say, 'Gregory, it's 3 a.m.; go to sleep,' '' Mr. Brook-Krasny said. ''He tells me: 'But it's my life. I can't stop.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (MB1)
MOGUL: Before a live audience, top, for his Russian radio show in Brooklyn, the station owner, Gregory Davidzon, above center, endorsed Lewis A. Fidler, third from right at the rear, for State Senate last month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMILY BERL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 CLOUT: Mr. Davidzon flanked by Comptroller John C. Liu, left, and Councilman Michael C. Nelson, and with Borough President Marty Markowitz at Baku Palace, a restaurant in Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NIKOLAI KOMISSAROV) (MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); MAYORS (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); RELIGION (71%); CITIES (66%); RESTAURANTS (60%); CENSUS (51%)

PERSON: BOB TURNER (89%); MICHAEL R TURNER (79%); ANTHONY D WEINER (56%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



444 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Decreases, But Tensions Remain High

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
PHOENIX -- The impact of steep declines in the number of migrants illegally crossing the border with Mexico in recent years has rippled across Arizona and other border states, with federal and local law enforcement seeing big drops in crime related to illegal immigration.
In Arizona, federal agents have found far fewer drop houses, where smugglers stash border crossers. Police chiefs in Arizona cities say their crime rates are low and are falling, along with the numbers and costs of illegal immigrants coming through their jails. 
Federal officials met with state and local police departments on Tuesday and Wednesday at the Border Security Expo in the convention hall in downtown Phoenix. They broadly agreed that the decrease in illegal crossers --down to about 340,000 migrants apprehended in 2011 from a peak of 1.1 million in 2005 -- has lightened the workload for the police, but has also brought worrisome changes in the type of crimes they confront.
While they no longer see huge flows of illegal migrants heading for low-wage work in the United States, federal and local officials said they now faced smaller numbers of more determined and potentially more dangerous crossers, including migrants carrying illegal drugs.
Sharp differences, even tension, arose between federal officials, who pointed to statistics and charts showing plummeting illegal entries as the border was reinforced over the last five years, and some local officers, particularly sheriffs who patrol the sun-seared expanses of desert in counties along the international line.
''We've got a lot of rural county, a lot of ranch families, and a lot of those people are living in fear every day,'' said Rodney W. Rothrock, chief deputy sheriff of Cochise County, which borders Mexico in southeastern Arizona.
In a bright hall next door to the law enforcement conclave, dozens of technology vendors were offering the latest military-style tools to make the border even more secure. Contractors large and small displayed radar devices that can see through walls, thermal imaging cameras mounted on mobile masts that retract in seconds and unmanned drone boats to scout rivers too perilous for human navigation.
The face-off between state and federal officials started with an opening speech on Tuesday by Arizona's governor, Jan Brewer, who said federal border enforcement was an ''overarching outrage.'' Ms. Brewer, a Republican, is leading Arizona's legal fight against the Obama administration over a state law that would give the police new powers to arrest anyone suspected of being an illegal immigrant.
''No amount of distortion can hide the absolute truth,'' Ms. Brewer said. ''For years, Washington has stood idly by, letting our borders grow more porous and more dangerous.''
In a riposte, Jayson P. Ahern, a former top official at the Customs and Border Protection agency, described Ms. Brewer's criticism as ''a very individualized opinion.'' Channeling many officials who were less outspoken because they are still in federal office, Mr. Ahern said border security had undergone ''remarkable improvements.''
He cited the expansion of the Border Patrol to more than 21,000 agents, the highest number in its history, and an array of new technology that is in use, including remote video surveillance systems and seven unmanned drones.
Matthew C. Allen, the special agent in charge of investigations for Immigration and Customs Enforcement in the state, said 51 migrant smugglers' drop houses were raided in Phoenix last year, down from a peak of 186 in 2008. About 800 illegal migrants were arrested in those raids in 2011, compared with about 3,200 migrants in 2008, Mr. Allen said.
The police chief of Mesa, just east of Phoenix, said the crime rate was the lowest since the 1960s. The chief, Frank Milstead, said that only about 2 percent of the 17,900 people arrested in Mesa last year were suspected of being illegal immigrants. ''The operational impact on our jails,'' he said, ''is minimal.''
Raymond Cobos, the sheriff of Luna County, 3,000 square miles of border scrublands and sierras next door in New Mexico, said his deputies now arrested an average of eight illegal immigrants a day, down from a daily average of about 300 three years ago.
Chief Deputy Rothrock also acknowledged a new reality. In 2010, he said, more than 300 illegal crossers detained by the Border Patrol were turned over to Cochise County because they were wanted for crimes in the United States. Last year, he said, the number of illegal crossers with open warrants was seven.
But Chief Deputy Rothrock warned that Cochise deputies were beginning to encounter ''a different type of illegal alien'': migrants alone or in small groups toting backpacks loaded with marijuana or methamphetamine. The migrants often plan to hand off the narcotics to a courier and return quickly to Mexico, he said.
''A lot of times they take the opportunity to help themselves to the citizens' property,'' Chief Deputy Rothrock said, breaking into homes.
Jeffrey Scott Kirkham, the police chief in Nogales, the busiest legal port of entry in Arizona, said his city's crime rate was very low, with two homicides in the last seven years.
But in an arrest that shocked Chief Kirkham, a high school student was recently found with nearly four pounds of heroin, worth about $80,000, in his backpack.
Federal investigators also reported ''an alarming increase'' in attacks by migrants on border agents, according to James Turgal, the F.B.I.'s special agent in charge in Arizona. In 2011, the agency opened investigations of nearly 500 assaults on federal officers along the Arizona border, from rock-throwing to shootings. That was more than four times the 117 assaults in 2008, he said.
Federal officials said they were confident progress would continue, since handling fewer illegal migrants means they can devote more agents and surveillance equipment to drug trafficking.
But even optimists urged caution. ''The primary magnet that draws people across our border from Mexico is employment,'' said Mr. Allen of Immigration and Customs Enforcement. ''I think we all recognize that the real test for us is going to come when the economy turns around in a very significant way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An attendee at the Border Security Expo last week in Phoenix. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (92%); IMMIGRATION (92%); CRIME RATES (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); COUNTIES (89%); SHERIFFS (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); SMUGGLING (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); TRADE SHOWS (75%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); RADAR SYSTEMS (67%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (66%); THERMAL SENSORS (61%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (51%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%)

PERSON: JAN BREWER (79%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (88%) ARIZONA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



445 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2173 words

HEADLINE: Boldface Buildings In the Cold Light of Now

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
CORRECTION APPENDED
AT the height of the condo building boom in Manhattan, when it seemed as if a shiny new building was being announced every week, developers took a page from the motion picture industry and seized on star power to sell their projects.
In the same way that George Clooney and Meryl Streep could be counted on to carry a picture, these brand-name architects, or ''starchitects,'' as they came to be known, helped to set a building apart and gave buyers another reason to want to live there.
The names on the marquees included Richard Meier, Enrique Norten, Robert A. M. Stern, Philip Johnson and Annabelle Selldorf, as well as designers focused on interiors, like Philippe Starck and Giorgio Armani. The boldface treatment worked, helping to push prices ever higher.
But you don't need a subscription to Variety to know that star power sometimes dims. Now that the dust has settled and these buildings have had a few years to age and see some turnover, resale prices show mixed results. Although none of the starchitects have suffered enough to be considered box office poison, some buildings that had not sold out when the recession hit have had to offer hefty discounts. Others, while still commanding good prices relative to nearby buildings, are not holding their initial value. 
Still others, like Mr. Stern's 15 Central Park West and Superior Ink, have continued to set sales records.
This era is not the first in which New Yorkers have turned to trusted names to build their homes. During the 1920s building boom, Rosario Candela, J. E. R. Carpenter and Emery Roth designed apartment houses that quickly came to define luxury. Today, their apartments are still coveted for their high ceilings, elegant details and gracious layouts. Their names, just like those of their 21st-century equivalents, often translate into added value, but do not guarantee it.
Mr. Meier's glass towers, 173-176 Perry and 165 Charles, off the West Side Highway, are credited with helping to extend the boundaries of the West Village, but his venture into Brooklyn at 1 Grand Army Plaza has not fared as well: sales started in 2007, and five years later the building has yet to sell out. Also, nearly every resale at Philip Johnson's Urban Glass House in SoHo, which opened in 2006, has been for less than the original purchase price, according to data on Streeteasy.com.
Some buildings with celebrity architects or designers have maintained or exceeded their boom-time prices, and they undoubtedly owe their success at least partly to that star power. Where prices have not held up, though, a celebrated designer was not enough to overcome other market forces, including price levels still about 10 percent below the highs of 2008. Many buildings with lackluster track records are in less-than-ideal locations or in areas that perhaps weren't quite ready for high design and its corresponding price tag.
''The city is better for the starchitect phenomenon,'' said Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel, ''because it enhanced the mystique of New York's residential housing market. But during the frenzy, those buildings were marketed as if they had inherent greater value, and the jury is still out on that.''
Mr. Miller said that people who bought apartments in buildings with design pedigrees may not be getting better returns than those who bought in luxury buildings without famous names attached.
''With the exception of the very top of the market, the city has gone into a much more austere mind-set,'' he said. ''I'm not convinced having a starchitect differentiates a building nearly as much as it did before.''
When Mr. Norten's One York Street in TriBeCa came to market in mid-2008, several units sold for close to their asking prices. But after the financial crisis, sales slowed and asking prices dropped by as much as 24 percent. Even then, however, many apartments sold at discounts of about 10 percent. Several apartments have been resold since 2008, each for less than the original purchase price.
Mr. Norten nonetheless sees One York as ''a huge success,'' noting that the penthouse sold for $23.7 million, or nearly $3,900 per square foot, an extraordinary figure for a building off Canal Street. Two-bedrooms in the building have sold for $1.8 million to $4.7 million.
Mr. Norten feels that the starchitect concept was overblown by developers and the media. During the boom, he said, the desire for a brand name may have gotten out of hand. ''Developers were not just looking for architecture brand, they were looking for any brand,'' including designers like Armani and Mick Jagger's daughter Jade, he said. ''Of course I love Mick Jagger, but does that make a good apartment?''
Regardless, he said, ''good architecture does sell better because people in a sophisticated society like New York appreciate good architecture.''
Indeed, several high-profile buildings are in the works, including Christian de Portzamparc's One57, a 90-story tower on West 57th Street; Jean Nouvel's Tower Verre, a 78-story structure that is to include gallery space for the Museum of Modern Art; and Herzog & de Meuron's tower at 56 Leonard Street.
Darren Sukenik, a managing director of Prudential Douglas Elliman, said that buyers had become more discerning in recent years. ''People are no longer buying just for starchitect appeal,'' he said. ''Now, it's more about quiet consumption.''
At the high end, he added, ''people aren't looking to be sold a lifestyle, they're looking to have their lifestyle understood and respected.'' To that end, he is working on a project with an architectural firm chosen by the developers (he would not divulge its name) for its popularity with the target audience. ''Instead of trying to sell them sizzle,'' he said, ''the developers turned to the buyer profile for inspiration.''
For brand-name buildings that have not maintained value, location may be a factor.
The price drops at Philip Johnson's Urban Glass House, which has interiors by Annabelle Selldorf, ''had nothing to do with design and everything to do with the city's decision to build a sanitation building next door,'' said Leonard Steinberg, a managing director of Prudential Douglas Elliman who is working with Ms. Selldorf on a recent project, 200 Eleventh Avenue.
Uncertainty about the garage, which is still under construction, definitely hurt resales, Mr. Steinberg said. But once the garage is done and ''people see that it's not unattractive, I think prices will go back up.''
Designer buildings in the financial district, which is seeing about half the sales volume of 2007, have also had mixed results. Downtown by Philippe Starck, at 15 Broad, sold out quickly in 2006, with many owners flipping their places at huge profits. But since late 2008, about a quarter of the resales have been at a discount.
Ariel Cohen, an agent at Prudential Douglas Elliman who has sold or rented about 300 apartments in the building, said that the Starck design, with its iconic chandeliers and modern finishes, had held up well. Many of the units sold at discounts are open lofts, long spaces with few windows; their layout was dictated by the building's original function as a bank. He described the price decreases, ranging from 1 to 20 percent, as ''stable pricing.''
At 20 Pine, a 409-unit building that is also a former bank, interiors designed by Armani/Casa were not enough to facilitate quick sales. The building came to market in 2006, and about 30 units are still for sale.
Deborah DeMaria, the agent at Warburg Realty who took over sales last year, was one of the building's first buyers. She said that she had paid about $1,200 a square foot for her apartment, and that asking prices for some units were as high as $1,700 per square foot. But the average sale price now is about $1,000 per square foot, on par with the rest of the neighborhood. The Armani name, she added, ''is still a huge draw for Europeans and other buyers who are interested in design.''
Andrew Gerringer, a managing director of the Marketing Directors, says that today, a starchitect will not bring a big premium if the building is not both in ''the right location and the right product for that location.''
By that reasoning, perhaps Brooklyn is not quite ready for contemporary design.
Having a sales office in TriBeCa probably didn't help Mr. Meier's 1 Grand Army Plaza when it opened in 2007, said Stephen Kliegerman, the president of Terra Development Marketing, which took over sales in January through Brown Harris Stevens. ''They were trying to deny the location,'' he said. ''But most of the buyers have been Brooklynites, so that was a mistake.''
Brown Harris has lowered prices on many units, and the glass tower is now nearly 80 percent sold, with an average sale price of about $900 per square foot, respectable for Prospect Heights. ''It's not as successful as originally planned,'' Mr. Kliegerman said. ''But that might have been overzealous.''
Mr. Meier says he can only guess at why his Brooklyn building has taken so long to sell. ''Is it the location? Did the market change? Is it that people there like to live in town houses more than a modern building?'' he said. ''I don't know the answer.''
At the opening of an exhibition of his collages on the ground floor of the building last fall, Mr. Meier met many of the building's residents. ''Everyone came up and told me how much they loved living there,'' he said. ''That was very gratifying.''
At another glass-clad building not too far away designed by Mr. Norten and promoted as ''A Modern Signature to Park Slope,'' only a handful of apartments have sold since sales started two years ago.
Mr. Norten ascribed the sluggish sales mainly to the building's location. It is on Carroll Street, near Fourth Avenue, the far western edge of Park Slope. ''I think the developers were very brave in trying to upgrade with different architecture there,'' he said. ''They were taking a risk.''
Other buildings may have fallen victim to bad timing. The complexity of high design caused delays in some cases, landing projects on the market at its weakest. This may have been the case for Ms. Selldorf's 200 Eleventh Avenue, the ''sky garage'' building where each apartment has an ''en-suite'' parking spot; and for 100 Eleventh Avenue, a Jean Nouvel building with a shimmering facade made up of hundreds of irregularly shaped windows.
Sales at 200 Eleventh started in early 2007, but most units did not close until 2010 and 2011, many at a significant discount off the asking price. Ms. Selldorf directed questions to Mr. Steinberg, of Elliman, who said the waters were muddied because some final asking prices were higher than the original prices. He noted that one of the penthouses recently sold for nearly $4,000 a square foot as raw space.
Mr. Nouvel's building also came to market in 2007, though it did not start closing deals until 2010; some units have sold at 20 percent or more off the list price. Several are still available, including an eight-bedroom penthouse listed at $38.9 million. Mr. Nouvel was not available for comment.
Julie Pham, a senior vice president of the Corcoran Group who has sold several apartments at 100 Eleventh, says that prospective buyers seem to be looking for a view as much as a building designed by a famous architect. Many are art collectors who appreciate the design, and many are foreign buyers who also own properties in places like Miami and Sao Paulo. ''Hypermodernism is not much of an issue for them: if anything, they like the glass,'' she said. ''Whereas New York buyers are more accustomed to not living in a fishbowl and not being on a highway.''
Recession-related problems have even affected Mr. Stern, whose 15 Central Park West recently set a new record with its $88 million penthouse sale. Highgrove, a high-rise condo in Stamford, Conn., built with the prewar aesthetic of Mr. Stern's other projects, started selling apartments in 2004 but has not yet opened. The original developer went into foreclosure, and buyers filed lawsuits as their promised move-in dates came and went. The building has now changed hands, and the new owners are considering what to do with it.
''That's an example of a building that missed the market totally,'' Mr. Gerringer said. The large and gracious apartments in Highgrove are not well suited to Stamford's younger demographic, he said. Mr. Stern was traveling and unavailable for comment.
Mr. Norten recalled that a few years back, his New York office was assailed by condominium design requests. ''Everybody was a developer and everybody wanted to do a building,'' he said. ''It was crazy.''
Today, he said, he views potential projects with a warier eye. ''I think maybe we should all be a little more careful after we learned big lessons,'' he said.
Online Correction: March 9, 2012, Friday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Due to a production error, a photo caption in an earlier version of this article misspelled the name of an architect. The architect is Jean Nouvel, not Jean Nouve.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ROBERT A.M. STERN: 15 Central Park West
RICHARD MEIER: 173 Perry Street
ENRIQUE NORTEN: One York Street
ANNABELLE SELLDORF: 200 11th Avenue
JEAN NOUVEL: 100 11th Avenue (RE1)
MEET ME AT THE CHANDELIER: The lobby of 15 Broad Street bears the distinctive signature of Philippe Starck, below. The building, a conversion, sold out quickly in 2006. But since late 2008, about a quarter of the resales have been at a discount. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
PASCAL LE SEGRETAIN/GETTY IMAGES)
GLASS WORK: Units at Phillip Johnson's Urban Glass House in SoHo have been resold for less than the original prices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 PINSTRIPES: At 20 Pine, the interiors were designed by Giorgio Armani's Armani/Casa, and are popular with Europeans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALESSANDRO GAROFALO/REUTERS) (RE7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); RECESSION (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

PERSON: GIORGIO ARMANI (86%); GEORGE CLOONEY (57%); MERYL STREEP (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2012



446 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: When Scale Matters

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Small places can yield big lessons. 

 BODY:
Judging from comments on my North Dakota post, there's a lot of confusion about when and why differences in scale make comparisons between economies invalid.
The crucial thing to get is that size per se isn't the issue; it's whether what is going on in the small economy could be replicated in the large economy.
I mean, we all know that airplane designs can be tested with miniature models in wind tunnels, that tsunamis can be modeled in tanks that fit in a (large) room, and so on. Small-scale versions of big phenomena are perfectly OK. The baby-sitting coop teaches us a lot about the global economic slump.
But when you're looking at, say, a resource boom -- which is what North Dakota is all about -- you have to ask whether a comparable resource boom is possible in a much more populous state, or the United States as a whole. One commenter declared that there's as much oil under California as there is under North Dakota; quite possibly. The question is, how big a deal would extracting that oil be in a state with 50 times North Dakota's population; how much difference would it make to, say, the state unemployment rate? And the answer of course is virtually none. To have a North Dakota-type boom in California you'd have to find 50 times as much oil; to have it nationally you'd have to find 500 times as much. Not likely.
And this is how you want to think about other examples. Is Iceland too small to be a useful model for other crisis countries? Well, it could be; Iceland's export sector is, thanks to its small size, not very diverse, and if the recovery had been all about fish, or aluminum, it wouldn't be much of a lesson to anyone else. As it happens, however, that's not what it's about. 
I guess the general point is that when trying to learn from some country or region's experience, you should always ask, "Is this place a reasonably good model for other places?" It's not a matter of head counts or acreage, it's about the story.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); EXPORT TRADE (63%); POPULATION SIZE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); ICELAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



447 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Lawyer for Banks Accuses MBIA Chief of Insider Trading

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN and FLOYD NORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: A lawyer for the banks said MBIA's chief was "pregnant with inside information" on MBIA's pending 2009 restructuring when he bought company stock in the months before the announcement. 

 BODY:
The nasty litigation between a group of banks and the bond insurer MBIA just got nastier.
A lawyer for the banks has accused Joseph W. Brown Jr., MBIA's chief executive, of illegally trading in MBIA stock while in possession of confidential information. The insider trading claim was made during a hearing late Friday at Federal District Court in Manhattan.
Robert J. Giuffra Jr., the banks' lawyer, said that Mr. Brown was "pregnant with inside information" about MBIA's pending February 2009 restructuring when he bought his company's stock in the months before the announcement.
 "Mr. Giuffra's accusations are false and irresponsible," Marc E. Kasowitz, a lawyer for MBIA, said in a statement. "All of Mr. Brown's stock purchases were approved in advance by counsel, fully disclosed, and in full compliance with both securities laws and company policies."
MBIA's restructuring is at the center of the banks' lawsuit, which accuses the insurer of defrauding them when it split itself into two operations, separating its traditional municipal bond insurance business from its exposures to mortgage-backed securities. They say that the restructuring - made in the depths of the financial crisis - was a sham, making it likely that MBIA would eventually be able to avoid paying out losses from insuring mortgage-backed securities owned by the banks.
When MBIA disclosed the restructuring, its stock price popped about 30 percent, rising to $4.51 a share on Feb. 18, 2009, from $3.48 a share a day earlier. Its stock closed at $9.61 on Friday.
The insider trading claims against Mr. Brown are just the latest salvo in the morass of litigation weighing on MBIA since the collapse of the housing market. MBIA, along with a host of other bond insurers, ran into deep trouble when many of the mortgage-backed securities that they had insured went sour.
A group of 18 banks originally brought a lawsuit in New York state court against MBIA. Fourteen of the banks have settled, including Morgan Stanley, which late last year agreed to drop out of the case in exchange for a $1.1 billion payment from MBIA. The four remaining plaintiffs are Bank of America, UBS, Socit Gnrale, and Natixis.
The banks' lawsuit is one of three different cases involving MBIA related to its 2009 restructuring.
Aurelius Capital Management, a hedge fund that owns mortgage-backed securities insured by MBIA, is the lead plaintiff in a federal case alleging the same claims as the banks. And the banks are plaintiffs in a state-court action seeking to reverse the New York Insurance Department's approval of MBIA's restructuring.
MBIA has also gone on the offensive, filing several lawsuits against financial institutions. Among them is an action in New York state court against Bank of America and its Countrywide unit. The insurer has accused Countrywide of lying to it about the quality of the mortgages that were bundled into securities insured by MBIA.
There was also a hearing on Friday in the Countrywide litigation on whether MBIA can depose Brian T. Moynihan, the chief executive of Bank of America. The bank's lawyers have resisted this request, and on Friday accused the bond insurer of trying to depose Mr. Moynihan for "harassment purposes" and argued that it would impose "unnecessary burdens" on him.
The judge presiding over the MBIA-Countrywide dispute did not issue a ruling on Friday.
There was also nothing resolved during Friday's session in federal court. In the unusual hearing, Richard J. Sullivan, a federal judge, and Barbara R. Kapnick, a state court justice, sat side by side to try to resolve disputes in the parallel state and federal lawsuits brought by the banks and Aurelius, respectively. (Judge Sullivan ceded his large, plush chair to Judge Kapnick, and sat instead next to her in a smaller, less commodious-looking chair brought in for the hearing.)
The central issue debated during the session was the scope of a subpoena that the banks had issued to the state insurance department. The subpoena requested information related to the department's discussions about MBIA's application to split into two operations.
Mr. Kasowitz, the lawyer for MBIA, and a lawyer for the state agency argued that the request was overbroad and redundant. MBIA has already produced 22 million documents, he said.
The lawyers on all sides sparred and interrupted each other throughout the hearing. At one point, David W. Ichel, a lawyer at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett representing Aurelius, began speaking over Judge Sullivan, who cut him off.
"You make a lot of money, but I get to wear this," Mr. Sullivan said, tugging on his robe. "So you can't interrupt me."
The level of vitriol peaked when Mr. Giuffra accused Mr. Brown, MBIA's chief executive, of insider trading. Mr. Giuffra raised the issue in the context of suggesting that Mr. Brown and the other MBIA's executives had a financial motive to execute the restructuring.
According to securities filings, Mr. Brown made four purchases of MBIA stock worth a total of about $1 million from November 2008 to January 2009. MBIA submitted its application to the insurance department in December 2008.
In the fall of 2008, the state's insurance department discussed MBIA's potential restructuring with the company's executives, according to an affidavit filed by Eric R. Dinallo, the former state insurance superintendent, as part of the litigation. Mr. Dinallo said that given MBIA's problems at the time, he was open to considering the insurer's restructuring proposal.
MBIA's lawyer, Mr. Kasowitz, took umbrage at the accusations during the hearing. He called them "irresponsible" and said that Mr. Giuffra made the claim only because the news media were present.
Mr. Brown, who owns about 4.3 million shares, or about $41 million worth of MBIA stock, has not sold a share since rejoining the company as its chief executive in February 2008. He served an earlier stint in the post from 1999 to 2004. 
During one heated exchange on Friday, Judge Sullivan warned the lawyers that, at least in his courtroom, they needed to tone it down. If not, the judge said, "the two of you can settle this on the street corner."

        
Societe Generale Said to Be Planning New York Job Cuts
        
Europe Investigating Banks Over Derivatives

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (91%); INSURANCE (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); LAWYERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); APPROVALS (77%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (66%); SUBPRIME LENDING (66%); HOUSING MARKET (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Bank of America; Barbara Kapnick; Brian Moynihan; Joseph W. Brown Jr.; MBIA; Natixis; Richard Sullivan; Robert J. Giuffra Jr.; Societe Generale; UBS; Brown, Joseph W Jr; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Suits and Litigation; Bank of America Corporation; MBIA Inc; Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: MBIA INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); NATIXIS SA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation; MBIA Inc

TICKER: MBI (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GLE (PAR) (58%); GLE (BIT) (58%); MS (NYSE) (56%); KN (PAR) (55%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (55%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%)

PERSON: BRIAN MOYNIHAN (58%) Brown, Joseph W Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



448 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: America Is Stealing the World's Doctors

BYLINE: HEATHER TIMMONS


HIGHLIGHT: Doctors from countries that desperately need trained medical professionals migrate to the United States, which pays better. 

 BODY:
Kunj Desai, a Zambian-born doctor of Indian descent, now practices in Newark, New Jersey, where salaries are nearly ten times that at home, and he is surrounded by modern facilities. 
"In a globalized economy, the countries that pay the most and offer the greatest chance for advancement tend to get the top talent," Matt McAllester writes in The New York Times Sunday Magazine. 
South America's soccer players migrate to Europe, high-tech workers from India and China go the United States, he writes, and "the United States, with its high salaries and technological innovation, is also the world's most powerful magnet for doctors, attracting more every year than Britain, Canada and Australia - the next most popular destinations for migrating doctors - combined." 
The Council on Physician and Nurse Supply estimates that in 10 years, the United States could have a shortage of 200,000 doctors. Already, one in four doctors working in this country is trained in a medical school overseas (though this includes some American doctors who attended medical school outside the United States). American medical schools are producing more graduates, but many of them will become specialists who can command better pay. The demand for primary-care doctors is expected to stay high, perpetuating the demand for foreign medical graduates. 
Even in the unlikely event that American medical schools produce more general practitioners, nothing but legislation would prevent American hospitals from cherry-picking the most promising young doctors the world has to offer, according to Laurie Garrett, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. "If you can take from an applicant pool from the whole planet, why would you only take from Americans?" Garrett said. "For the foreseeable future, every health provider, from Harvard University's facilities all the way down to a rural clinic in the Ethiopian desert, is competing for medical talent, and the winners are those with money." 
Read the full story here. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (93%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); HEALTH CARE (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (76%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (71%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (65%); ATHLETES (56%); SOCCER (56%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: DOCTORS OF THE WORLD (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



449 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Obama a Frequent Flier to 2012 Swing States

BYLINE: MCHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Too much focus on official duties can isolate an incumbent from voters; too much electioneering risks the appearance that the candidate is losing focus on the nation's problems. 

 BODY:
Swing State Diplomacy
Perhaps the best example of Mr. Obama's balancing act will occur on Tuesday when the president welcomes Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain for a two-day state visit. Their first event? A quick trip on Tuesday to watch the opening games of the N.C.A.A. men's college basketball tournament.
The tournament just happens to be in Dayton, Ohio - perhaps the most important swing state in the country. On Wednesday morning, the papers and television stations in Dayton will be filled with images of Mr. Obama the sports fan sitting with Mr. Cameron at the games. That is a good thing for his campaign, and probably not bad for relations with the United States' closest ally, either.
Mr. Obama is sure to be criticized by his Republican rivals for the taxpayer-financed trip, which, they will note, seems all too convenient. On Wednesday, he will play host to Mr. Cameron for a more traditional state dinner back at the White House.
Presidential Travel
Once Mr. Cameron leaves, Mr. Obama will take the opportunity for a couple of true campaign events as he looks for re-election cash in Chicago and Atlanta. Most of Mr. Obama's travel this year has conveniently combined official business with trips to states that he would like to win in the fall.
Since January, Mr. Obama has flown to Iowa, Arizona, Nevada, Michigan, Virginia, Wisconsin, Florida, New Hampshire and North Carolina. All were official trips in which the president talked about his economic plans, toured factories and prodded Republicans in Congress to act on his proposals. But they are also among the states that will be critical for Mr. Obama in November. The speeches he gives in those places - like the fiery one he delivered on Feb. 28 to the United Auto Workersin the nation's capital - serve as much to rouse voters as they do to outline his economic policies.
Leaving the Country
Among the riskiest things that a president can do when he is running for re-election is to leave the country. Yet being president requires travel abroad, and Mr. Obama is headed to South Korea in a couple of weeks. He will attend a nuclear security summit meeting, but it will be a quick trip. Mr. Obama will be there just a little more than a day or so and then head back.
Mr. Obama was a globetrotter in his first two years in office, traveling all over the world (though some of the trips were delayed because of debates in Congress over health care and taxes). This year, the president is likely to curtail his overseas trips, hoping to avoid criticism from voters or his Republican rivals. One piece of good fortune? The annual NATO summit meeting and Group of 8 meeting of world leaders will take place in the United States this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (77%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); CAUCUSES (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); BASKETBALL (72%); SPORTS FANS (71%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (55%) Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; Ohio; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF DAYTON (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); DAVID CAMERON (90%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (88%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (75%) OHIO, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%) Ohio

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



450 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Quad)

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; basketball

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Why the A.C.C. Tournament Should Get Back to Its Roots

BYLINE: RAY GLIER


HIGHLIGHT: With empty seats at its basketball tournament, the A.C.C. should refocus on basketball -- and keep its tournament on Tobacco Road. 

 BODY:
ATLANTA -- Walking around Philips Arena this week were some former Atlantic Coast Conference stars: Len Elmore, the Maryland center/forward. Mike Gminski, the Duke center. Eric Montross, the North Carolina center. You couldn't help but think back to when they played, back to a time when the A.C.C.'s core product was basketball.
The A.C.C.'s core product is no longer basketball. It is business.
When the Coca-Cola Company came out with New Coke, then realized it made a mistake, it pulled the product off the shelves and went back to Coke. When the A.C.C. came out with a new product, the expansion that brought Boston College, Virginia Tech and Miami, the conference went out and made another mistake by adding Pittsburgh and Syracuse.
The A.C.C. was chasing the football money train and let its core product erode. The basketball is just not the same.
Every time I looked up at the upper deck end zones at Philips Arena here the last few days and saw the hundreds of empty seats, I wondered, "What would Dean Smith think?" This did not happen back in the day. This tournament was a tough ticket. Not anymore.
The product is not the same as it was 30 years ago, 20 years ago, or 10 years ago. Expansion has watered down the talent and the A.C.C. has slipped off its perch as the best basketball conference in the country.
I saw conference R.P.I. ratings that had the A.C.C. as low as fifth. The recruiting base is watered down and so is the fan base. Where is everybody? Some of it is the economy that surrounds all of college basketball. Attendance is down across the A.C.C. and we keep hearing it is the economy.
It's not just the economy; it is the level of play. It is also too many football schools playing basketball and not bringing fans with them. There are a slew of new coaches in the conference, too, and that has hurt.
If North Carolina State had defeated North Carolina in the semifinals here Saturday and faced Florida State in the championship game on Sunday, there might have been a crowd of 12,000 in the 19,000-seat Philips Arena. It would not have looked good on TV.
The A.C.C. can remedy some of this by keeping its tournament on Tobacco Road, its roots. It is too late to do anything about expansion, but to revive itself, the tournament needs to stay on Tobacco Road and help the league get well again.

        
Welcome to Your New Life, Jay Wright
        
With Lawson Sidelined, Tar Heels Go Inside
        
In Rivalry With Duke, Tar Heels Erase All Doubt
        
Duke and North Carolina Prepare to Write Another Chapter
        
Leading Off: At Least Some Rivalries Endure

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (70%); NEW PRODUCTS (69%) Atlantic Coast Conference; dean smith; Eric Montross; Len Elmore; Mike Gminski; North Carolina; Smith, Dean

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (71%)

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTIC COAST ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (93%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (84%); BOSTON COLLEGE (56%) Atlantic Coast Conference

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (71%)

PERSON: Smith, Dean

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (76%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (74%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%); GEORGIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%) North Carolina

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



451 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: G.I. Kills Afghan Villagers; Children Among 16 Dead

BYLINE: By TAIMOOR SHAH and GRAHAM BOWLEY; Taimoor Shah reported from Panjwai, and Graham Bowley from Kabul, Afghanistan. Reporting was contributed by Sharifullah Sahak, Rod Nordland and Matthew Rosenberg from Kabul; Eric Schmitt from Washington; William Yardley from Tacoma, Wash.; James Dao from New York; and Isolde Raftery from Seattle.

 BODY:
PANJWAI, Afghanistan -- Stalking from home to home, a United States Army sergeant methodically killed at least 16 civilians, 9 of them children, in a rural stretch of southern Afghanistan early on Sunday, igniting fears of a new wave of anti-American hostility, Afghan and American officials said.
Residents of three villages in the Panjwai district of Kandahar Province described a terrifying string of attacks in which the soldier, who had walked more than a mile from his base, tried door after door, eventually breaking in to kill within three separate houses. The man gathered 11 bodies, including those of 4 girls younger than 6, and set fire to them, villagers said.
Coming after a period of deepening public outrage, spurred by the Koran burning by American personnel last month and an earlier video showing American Marines urinating on dead militants, the possibility of a violent reaction to the killings added to a feeling of siege here among Western personnel. Officials described growing concern over a cascade of missteps and offenses that has cast doubt on the ability of NATO personnel to carry out their mission and has left troops and trainers increasingly vulnerable to violence by Afghans seeking revenge. 
President Hamid Karzai condemned the attacks, calling them in a statement an ''inhuman and intentional act'' and demanding justice. Both President Obama and Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta called Mr. Karzai, expressing condolences and promising thorough investigations. ''This incident is tragic and shocking, and does not represent the exceptional character of our military and the respect that the United States has for the people of Afghanistan,'' Mr. Obama said in a statement.
American officials in Kabul were scrambling to understand what had happened, and appealed for calm, at a moment when the United States and Afghanistan are in tense negotiations on the terms of the long-term American presence in the country.
The officials said the suspect was an Army staff sergeant who acted alone and then surrendered. ''The initial reporting that we have at this time indicates there was one shooter, and we have one man in custody,'' said Lt. Col. Jimmie Cummings, a NATO spokesman.
A senior American military official said Sunday evening that the sergeant was attached to a unit based at Joint Base Lewis-McChord, a major Army and Air Force installation near Tacoma, Wash., and that he had been part of what is called a village stabilization operation in Afghanistan. In those operations, teams of Green Berets, supported by other soldiers, try to develop close ties with village elders, organize local police units and track down Taliban leaders. The official said the sergeant was not a Green Beret himself.
Another senior military official said the sergeant was 38 and married with two children. He had served three tours of duty in Iraq, this official said, and had been deployed to Afghanistan for the first time in December. Yet another military official said he has served in the Army for 11 years.
In Panjwai, a reporter for The New York Times who inspected bodies that had been taken to the nearby American military base counted 16 dead, including five children with single gunshot wounds to the head, and saw burns on some of the children's legs and heads. ''All the family members were killed, the dead put in a room, and blankets were put over the corpses and they were burned,'' said Anar Gula, an elderly neighbor who rushed to the house after the soldier had left. ''We put out the fire.''
The villagers also brought some of the burned blankets on motorbikes to display at the base, Camp Belambay, in Kandahar, and show that the bodies had been set alight. Soon, more than 300 people had gathered outside to protest.
At least five Afghans were wounded in the attacks, officials said, some of them seriously, indicating the death toll could rise. NATO said several casualties were being treated at a military hospital.
One of the survivors from the attacks, Abdul Hadi, 40, said he was at home when a soldier broke down the door.
''My father went out to find out what was happening, and he was killed,'' he said. ''I was trying to go out and find out about the shooting, but someone told me not to move, and I was covered by the women in my family in my room, so that is why I survived.''
Mr. Hadi said there was more than one soldier involved in the attacks, and at least five other villagers described seeing a number of soldiers, and also a helicopter and flares at the scene. But that claim was unconfirmed -- other Afghan residents described seeing only one gunman -- and it was unclear whether extra troops had been sent out to the village after the attack to catch the gunman.
In a measure of the mounting mistrust between Afghans and the coalition, however, many Afghans, including lawmakers and other officials, said they believed the attacks had been planned, and were incredulous that one American soldier could have carried out such attacks without help. In his statement, Mr. Karzai said ''American forces'' had entered the houses in Panjwai, but at another point he said the killings were the act of an individual soldier.
Others called for calm. Abdul Hadi Arghandihwal, the minister of economy and the leader of Hezb-e-Islami, a major Afghan political party with Islamist leanings, said there would probably be new protests. But he said the killings should be seen as the act of an individual and not of the United States.
''It is not the decision of the Army officer to order somebody to do something like this,'' he said. ''Probably there are going to be many demonstrations, but it will not change the decisions of our government about our relationship with the United States.''
Elsewhere, news of the killings was spreading only slowly. Other than the protest at the base in Kandahar, there were no immediate signs of the fury that fueled rioting across the country after the burning of Korans by American military personnel in February.
Both the United States Embassy in Kabul, which immediately urged caution among Americans traveling or living in Afghanistan, and the military coalition rushed to head off any further outrage, deploring the attacks, offering condolences for the families and promising the soldier would be brought to justice. Brig. Gen. Carsten Jacobson, the NATO spokesman, expressed his ''deep sadness'' and said that while the motive was not yet clear, it looked like an isolated episode.
''I am not linking this to the recent incidents over the recent days and weeks,'' he said. ''It looks very much like an individual act. We have to look into the background behind it.''
Adding to the sense of concern, the killings occurred two days after an episode in Kapisa Province, in eastern Afghanistan, in which NATO helicopters apparently hunting Taliban insurgents instead fired on civilians, killing four and wounding three others, Afghan officials said. About 1,200 demonstrators marched in protest in Kapisa on Saturday.
The rapid arrest on Sunday could help prevent a repeat of last month's unrest. The reaction to the Koran-burning case revealed a huge cultural gap between the Americans, who saw it as an unfortunate mistake, and the Afghans, who viewed it as a crime and wanted to see those responsible tried as criminals.
The Afghans and Americans agreed on the severity of the killings on Sunday, though, and General Jacobson said the case would be aggressively pursued by American legal authorities.
It was less clear how the attacks would affect the talks between Kabul and Washington, known as strategic partnership talks, which will define the American presence and role in the country after the withdrawal of combat troops. The upheaval prompted by the Koran burnings led to a near-breakdown in those talks, but they appeared tentatively back on track after a deal struck Friday for the Afghans to assume control of the main coalition prison in six months.
The strategic partnership talks must still address differences over the American campaign of night raids on Afghan houses. The attack on Sunday may complicate that issue, because it bore some similarities to the night raids carried out by coalition forces in Afghanistan.
The shootings also carried some echoes of an attack in March 2007 in eastern Afghanistan, when several Marines opened fire with automatic weapons, killing as many as 19 civilians after a suicide car bomb struck the Marines' convoy, wounding one Marine.
Panjwai, a rural district near the city of Kandahar, was traditionally a Taliban stronghold. It was a focus of the United States military offensive in 2010 and was the scene of heavy fighting.
Two American soldiers were killed by small-arms fire in Panjwai on March 1, and three died in a roadside bomb attack in February.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The bodies of several men and a child who witnesses said were killed by a United States Army sergeant in southern Afghanistan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALLAUDDIN KHAN /ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1)
Top, the bodies of an Afghan man and a child said to have been killed by a United States Army sergeant on Sunday. Above, Afghan Army soldiers kept watch as Afghans gathered outside an American base in Kandahar Province after the killings. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAMOON DURRANI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 AHMAD NADEEM/REUTERS) (A8) MAPS: The killings on Sunday took place in the Panjwai district. (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (91%); STALKING (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY BASES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ARSON (77%); FIRES (77%); AIR FORCES (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); POLICE FORCES (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (58%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TACOMA, WA, USA (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



452 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Nonfiction Curriculum Enhanced Reading Skills, Study Finds

BYLINE: By ANNA M. PHILLIPS

 BODY:
Children in New York City who learned to read using an experimental curriculum that emphasized nonfiction texts outperformed those at other schools that used methods that have been encouraged since the Bloomberg administration's early days, according to a new study to be released Monday.
For three years, a pilot program tracked the reading ability of approximately 1,000 students at 20 New York City schools, following them from kindergarten through second grade. Half of the schools adopted a curriculum designed by the education theorist E. D. Hirsch Jr.'s Core Knowledge Foundation. The other 10 used a variety of methods, but most fell under the definition of ''balanced literacy,'' an approach that was spread citywide by former Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein, beginning in 2003. 
The study found that second graders who were taught to read using the Core Knowledge program scored significantly higher on reading comprehension tests than did those in the comparison schools.
It also tested children on their social studies and science knowledge, and again found that the Core Knowledge pupils came out ahead. Citywide, budget cuts and the drive to increase scores on the state reading and math exams have led many elementary and middle schools to whittle down their social studies and science instruction.
''This data shows a promising option for principals to consider,'' said Josh Thomases, the deputy chief academic officer for the city's Education Department.
He said the new curriculum could be useful in helping achieve the new learning targets, known as the Common Core, that New York and most other states have adopted. ''As we align curricula and materials with the new Common Core Standards, we look forward to working with this group and others toward a higher standard,'' he said.
The pilot program and study were started in the 2008-9 school year by Mr. Klein, who worried that students suffered from what he called a ''knowledge deficit.'' The study was conducted by the Education Department and paid for with $2.4 million in private donations raised by the Fund for Public Schools, a charity that supports department initiatives.
But city officials said it was not an indication that balanced literacy methods should be abandoned. And several proponents of the longstanding approach, including Carmen Farina, a former deputy chancellor, said the study focused on too few schools to be used in policy decisions.
''I think it's a very problematic study,'' said Lucy Calkins, a professor at Columbia University's Teachers College and an architect of the city's balanced literacy program.
''As far as I can tell, they gave resources to 10 schools to support content literacy and then they tested all of the schools on content literacy,'' she said, adding that there was no way of knowing with what fidelity the 10 comparison schools were using a form of balanced literacy.
Dr. Hirsch is the author of a number of books on education, including ''Cultural Literacy: What Every American Needs to Know,'' a best seller based on the idea that American schools were teaching children to read in a vacuum, without introducing the background knowledge the children would need to digest higher-level material. The book drew criticism for its insistence that having a common body of knowledge was the basis for America's national culture.
When he introduced the Core Knowledge pilot program, Mr. Klein said he hoped it could be used to raise eighth graders' reading scores, which were lagging behind the fourth graders' gains.
The study found that for each of the three years, students in the Core Knowledge program had greater one-year gains on a brief reading test than their peers in the comparison schools. The difference was most pronounced in kindergarten, when the scores of children following Dr. Hirsch's method showed increases that were five times those of their peers. By the third year, they were still posting higher scores, but the differences were not as wide. Between the fall and spring of last year, their scores rose 2.5 scale score points, compared with an average gain of 0.9 points in the comparison group. The scale score is based on the number of questions answered correctly, combined with the degree of difficulty of those questions.
On the TerraNova standardized tests on social studies and science, the Core Knowledge students outperformed the comparison group, but on a test of oral reading comprehension and vocabulary their scores were not significantly different.
Under the balanced literacy approach, which was used by seven of the comparison schools and remains the most popular method of teaching reading in the city's schools, children are encouraged to develop a love of reading by choosing books that are of interest to them. Teachers spend less time directing instruction, and more time overseeing students as they work together.
Reading nonfiction writing is the key component of the Core Knowledge curriculum, which is based on the theory that children raised reading storybooks will lack the necessary background and vocabulary to understand history and science texts. While the curriculum allows children to read fiction, it also calls on them to knowledgeably discuss weather patterns, the solar system, and how ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia compare.
The curriculum may have a particular appeal for city schools beginning to adopt the Common Core standards, which emphasize nonfiction reading and will go into effect in 2014. The Education Department plans to solicit bids from companies interested in creating textbooks, for students of all grades, that will be based on the standards.
Of the teachers and administrators who were surveyed about the pilot program, 72 percent said they were ''very satisfied'' or ''somewhat satisfied'' with the curriculum.
''I like balanced literacy, I do; I think that it works well, especially for children who are coming into school having been read to every single day,'' said Katie Grady, principal of Public School 104 in Far Rockaway, Queens.
Her school began using elements of Core Knowledge in 2006, under Kathleen M. Cashin, a veteran superintendent who was an early adopter of Dr. Hirsch's approach, with its heavy emphasis on basic knowledge.
''For my children, who are economically disadvantaged, they needed something more, and the Core Knowledge pilot had it,'' Ms. Grady said. Of the nearly 700 students enrolled at her school last year, 88 percent met the city's definition of poverty.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); CURRICULA (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); BUDGETS (74%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (66%); BUDGET CUTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



453 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Latest Stress Tests Are Expected to Show Progress at Most Banks

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
In another milestone in the banking industry's recovery from the financial crisis, the Federal Reserve this week will release the results of its latest stress tests, which are expected to show broadly improved balance sheets at most institutions.
The findings would be the latest of several signs of renewed strength in the economy, including the unemployment report last Friday that showed that more than 227,000 jobs were created in February. 
For the financial sector, including traditional banks and Wall Street firms that were at the heart of the panic during the crisis, the recovery has been slow but steady, with some banks recovering much faster than others.
Still, while unpleasant surprises are possible, analysts are counting on the Fed to find banks largely healthy. That would stand in marked contrast with the holes, in the tens of billions of dollars, found on balance sheets in the first round of stress tests in 2009.
''Everybody wants to avoid headlines,'' said Chris Kotowski, an analyst with Oppenheimer. ''People are angry at the banks, and both the banks and the regulators just want to do something to show we're working our way back towards normalcy. That's what everyone is craving.''
The examination is not merely an intellectual exercise. If institutions fall short, they could be required to raise billions in new capital, depressing their shares. If they pass, dividend increases and stock buybacks by the strongest institutions will follow as they did after the second round of tests a year ago, pleasing investors whose banks' stocks still trade at levels far below where they where before the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September 2008.
Under the tests, Federal Reserve specialists are trying to predict how capital levels at the 19 largest banks would withstand an economic downturn even more severe than the one that followed the Lehman collapse.
In addition to a 50 percent stock market decline and an 8 percent contraction in real gross domestic product, the tests envision an unemployment rate of 13 percent, well above the 10.2 percent peak recorded in October 2009. A surge in unemployment would increase losses for banks on mortgage and credit card debt.
If all that were not enough, the Federal Reserve is considering what would happen to bank assets if a market shock hit Europe and reverberated in the United States, gauging the extent of losses that have not loomed large for American institutions, despite the continuing problems in Greece and weaker European borrowers.
Regulators are walking a fine line: if they permit the banks to return too much capital now, that might leave the industry vulnerable in the event of a downturn and lead others to think the industry was returning to its risky ways. On the other hand, a raft of negative results would alarm investors just as calm seems to be returning to the markets.
''It's going to end up being a compromise between regulatory constraints and what the banks desire,'' said Kamal Mustafa, chairman and chief executive of Invictus, a consulting firm in New York that focuses on the financial sector.
For banks to pass the tests, they must show that their Tier 1 capital ratio -- the strictest measure of a bank's ability to absorb financial blows -- will be at 5 percent or better, even in the Fed's nightmare case. To raise dividends or buy back stock, the ratio would have to remain above 5 percent, after capital was returned to shareholders.
Tier 1 capital ratios for the 19 largest banks have improved since the depths of the financial crisis, rising to 10.1 percent in the third quarter of 2011 from 5.4 percent in the first quarter of 2009. Actual capital in dollar terms has jumped to $741 billion from $420 billion.
''The industry is on much firmer ground than it was three years ago,'' said Jason Goldberg, an analyst for Barclays. ''This will show how much progress the banks have made in cleaning up their balance sheets.''
''It was painful to get here in some instances,'' he said, referring to institutions like Bank of America and Citigroup that had to sell billions of dollars' worth of new stock to raise capital, lowering the value of the stock held by shareholders and leaving their shares well below precrisis levels. ''But we did get here.''
While Europe's problems seem to have cooled a bit, and bondholders last week largely accepted a partial write-down on the face value of their debt by Greece, the Europe-oriented part of the stress tests will look at six of the largest American financial institutions -- Bank of America, Citigroup, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, Morgan Stanley and Wells Fargo -- with a particular focus on their trading desks.
Unlike the findings of the last round of stress tests, which ended last March, the results of this round will be made public by the Federal Reserve, with an announcement expected by Thursday. Last time, the Fed informed the banks of their results, and it was up to them to announce whether they would proceed with dividend increases or buybacks.
Federal Reserve officials, led by Daniel K. Tarullo, a Fed governor, have pushed to make more information public about underlying conditions, despite opposition from bank executives. In this case, the Fed will release figures like the potential drop in revenues, expected losses, and capital levels in the event of a sharp downturn. Banks will be informed individually of their results before the public disclosure, and will then follow up with any news of dividends or buybacks after the Fed announcement.
Some banks will fare better than others in the tests, according to interviews with analysts, bankers and consultants.
Bank of America, still coping with the effects of billions in soured subprime mortgages, is likely to pass its test but is not seeking to raise its quarterly dividend of 0.01 a share or start new buybacks. With memories still fresh of its near collapse in the financial crisis, Citigroup is likely to be permitted only a small dividend increase, as it slowly streamlines and winds down unprofitable businesses.
Morgan Stanley is not expected to increase its dividend; the investment bank is earmarking capital to buy from Citigroup the part of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney brokerage that it does not own. Analysts said that Goldman Sachs also was not expected to increase its dividend significantly.
On the other hand, stronger banks like JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo are expected to score high marks, as are some regional banks, including BB&T, Fifth Third, KeyCorp and M&T Bank. At Barclays, Mr. Goldberg predicted the yield on KeyCorp shares could double to 2.6 percent, from 1.3 percent, while the payout on Wells Fargo could rise to 2.2 percent from 1.5 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wells Fargo is expected to earn high marks on its stress test. Bank of America, though still coping with the effects of billions in soured subprime mortgages, is also expected to pass. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS GOODNEY/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 TANNEN MAURY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); DIVIDENDS (65%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (65%); PERSONAL DEBT (60%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); GREECE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



454 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Cry, the Beloved Constitution

BYLINE: By J. HARVIE WILKINSON III. 
J. Harvie Wilkinson III, a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, is the author of ''Cosmic Constitutional Theory: Why Americans Are Losing Their Inalienable Right to Self-Governance.''

 BODY:
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va.
BOTH liberals and conservatives have the American Constitution in the cross hairs. They assault the Constitution in their different ways, each with damaging effects on our nation. Conservatives attack the courts on one hand and seek to have them advance their activist agenda on the other. Liberals, when it suits them, embrace rights that have not been enumerated in the Constitution and cry for restraint only when their pet bills come under fire. The result is a national jurisprudence whetted by political appetite, with our democratic values as the victims.
Conservatives increasingly bemoan Congress's power to regulate interstate commerce, as illustrated by the debate over the Affordable Care Act's requirement that individuals buy health insurance. They argue that Congress can only regulate activity, not inactivity, and so when it gets involved in a decision by a consumer to not purchase health care, it is going far beyond its reach. 
If only it were that simple.
As a political argument, that resonates: ''Don't Tread On Me'' trumpets the imperishable spirit of American liberty. But as a constitutional argument, it would imbue judges with unprecedented powers to topple an exhaustively debated and duly enacted federal law and to make the determination that the decision not to buy ice cream can be neatly severed from the decision to buy chocolate or vanilla.
In curbing federal excess, courts risk lessening our national economic strength. That strength resides partly in the national aspects of our founding document, among them the now maligned commerce clause and the newly mistrusted supremacy clause, which gives preference to federal over state law when there is a conflict. States' rights are important in many spheres, but the benefits of a national economic policy must also be considered. A vibrant economic order requires some political predictability, and the prospect of judges' striking down commercial regulation on ill-defined and subjective bases is a prescription for economic chaos that the framers, in a simpler time, had the good sense to head off.
It is tempting to shout states' rights when deeply flawed federal legislation is enacted, but the momentary satisfactions of that exercise carry long-term constitutional costs. Badly conceived bills die a thousand political deaths -- in the appropriations process, in the states, through electoral retribution, in the executive appointments of a succeeding administration and ultimately in amendment and repeal. However, if courts read the Constitution in such a way that it enables them to make Congress ineffectual, and instead to promote 50 state regulatory regimes in an era of rapidly mounting global challenges, the risks should escape no one. Making our charter more parochial while other nations flex their economic muscle seems like poor timing.
Liberals are mounting their own, equally damaging, assault on the Constitution. They have forsaken the textual and historical foundations of that document in favor of judicially decreed rights of autonomy. It is one thing to value those rights our cherished Bill of Rights sets forth. But to create rights from whole cloth is to turn one's back on law.
Just like the opponents of the Affordable Care Act, the proponents of reproductive choice and same-sex marriage have strong arguments -- but they are political, not constitutional. What are the consequences when liberals shortchange democratic liberty in favor of judicial expansion of unenumerated personal rights? Well, for one, creating constitutional rights without foundation frays the community fabric and, with it, the very notion that the majority can enact into law some expression of shared values that make ours a society whose whole is more than the sum of its parts. In pushing a constitutional vision of autonomous individuals divested of location in larger social settings, liberals risk weakening the communal values and institutions that best afford our most disadvantaged the chance for a good life.
At a time of dismay over democratic dysfunction, the temptation to ask courts to supplant self-governance runs high. And yet when I look past the present debacle, and think of where democracy has brought this country, I would not lose faith.
The risks of continuing our present constitutional course are grave. One faction risks damage to the nation at large, the other to the vital roles of smaller communities. All factions owe their fellow citizens the hope and the prospect of democratic change, not the message that their views have been constitutionally condemned and their opponents' views carved in the stone of our founding charter. Restraint has much to commend it as a judicial value, not least of which is that it extends the hand of tolerance and respect to those whose views we may not share, but whose citizenship we do share and whose love of family, community and country burns no less brightly than our own.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); COMMERCIAL LAW (75%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); APPOINTMENTS (64%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



455 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 271 words

HEADLINE: For China, Big Deficit In Trading Last Month

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

 BODY:
SHANGHAI -- China said Saturday that its monthly trade deficit reached $31.5 billion in February, its weakest performance in over a decade and the latest indication of slowing growth in the nation's economy. 
The huge size of the deficit surprised analysts, but they also cautioned that trade figures covering the first two months of the year tend to be distorted here by the Chinese New Year holiday.
In January, China recorded a trade surplus of about $27.3 billion. For the two months combined, exports rose about 7 percent, while imports rose by about 7.7 percent, according to government data.
Still, with China's economy beginning to moderate amid growing signs of weakness in Europe, there are concerns that global growth will slow as well.
Chinese leaders are already preparing for more moderate growth this year, closer to 7 percent, a significant slowdown from the last few years when growth was cresting closer to 9 or 10 percent.
China also reported last week that industrial production and retail sales had slowed in the first few months of this year. In addition, China's once-booming property market has been showing signs of weakness.
But few economists are predicting a hard landing in China, which is now the world's second-largest economy after the United States. There are signs of more moderate growth here, with inflation easing. Many analysts said they believed that Beijing could use monetary and other policy measures to stimulate growth, if necessary.
In a report issued Friday, HSBC analysts in China called for the Chinese government to increase ''easing'' policies meant to free up money and stimulate growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); RETAIL SALES (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%) EAST CHINA (91%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



456 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Wily, Elusive Foragers Invade Upstate New York

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
PERU, N.Y. -- They roam by night, picking cornstalks clean, making off with apple crops. They have almost no natural predators, but they have razor-sharp tusks and a seemingly bottomless appetite for plants and animals. Their population can triple in one year.
They are feral pigs, and while they have long plagued parts of the Southern and Western United States, now they have become a problem in the peaceful Champlain Valley of New York, an agricultural heartland on the edge of the Adirondacks. 
Actually, they are rarely spotted. Since they hunt at night and steer clear of humans, few people ever see these pigs. But a pack of them was captured on camera foraging on Bob Rulf's farm here, their eyes eerily aglow in the light of the flash. ''I have yet to see one myself,'' Mr. Rulf said.
Mr. Rulf, 82, thought he had a deer problem. But when he dispatched a hunter to take care of them last spring, he learned the more disturbing truth.
Alternately called wild boars and feral swine, the pigs are not the gentle, pink cousins of Wilbur from ''Charlotte's Web,'' E. B. White's children's classic. They start to breed as early as 6 months of age, bearing litters of as many as 10 piglets. They carry disease and can be aggressive toward people. They have even inspired a new television series, ''Hogs Gone Wild,'' about efforts to hunt them from Hawaii to Alabama.
Perhaps most worrisome is their reputation as eating machines: the pigs devour ground-nesting birds and reptiles, fawns and domestic livestock, native vegetation and crops. Feral pigs have already proliferated in parts of western New York. But state officials are drawing a line in the topsoil, so to speak, determined to protect both the agrarian economy and the fragile ecosystem from the nascent herd -- or ''sounder'' in swine-speak -- in the town of Peru.
''There's a real sense of urgency,'' said Ed Reed, a wildlife biologist for the state's Department of Environmental Conservation. ''Once the pigs get established, they are very difficult to eradicate completely.''
Hunting the animals is tricky, given their nocturnal nature. State officials have settled on trapping as the best way to capture an entire sounder of swine. To that end, two technicians have been slowly assembling traps on Mr. Rulf's property -- corrals, 30 feet in diameter, in which dried corn and doughnuts laced with Jell-O powder are luring the estimated half-dozen pigs troubling his farm.
With each extension of the traps, the pigs here have grown wary, staying away for a couple of nights before returning to nibble the bait. Officials hope that by the end of March, the pens will be finished and the pigs sufficiently acclimated to allow technicians to set trip wires closing the gates. The traps are circular because feral pigs have been known to crowd into the corners of other traps and climb atop one another to escape.
Last year, the state set a similar corral trap too soon, catching only three pigs. After that, none of the others returned to the area, even after the trap was dismantled. ''I've never worked with an animal this smart,'' Mr. Reed said.
Farmers in the region are nervously following the clash between the boars and the bureaucrats. ''With all the agriculture here, the pigs have plenty of food,'' said Peter Glushko, supervisor of Peru, a town of 7,000 on Lake Champlain, nine miles south of Plattsburgh. ''Who knows where they'll end up? Other farms should be concerned.''
The growing population has a number of origins: domestic livestock and pet pigs that were either released or escaped captivity; Eurasian boars imported for use on hunting ranches; and a hybrid between the two. Some researchers believe that pigs were most likely introduced to North America by Christopher Columbus in the West Indies; American settlers later brought more pigs as livestock. The practice by farmers of allowing pigs to roam on open ranges continued in some states until the 1960s, furthering their expansion into the wild. So far, feral pigs have infiltrated 5 of 62 counties in New York State. They first showed up about a decade ago in neighboring Onondaga and Cortland Counties, and the statewide population is estimated to be a few hundred, according to Justin Gansowski, a wildlife disease biologist with the United States Department of Agriculture in Castleton, N.Y.
By contrast, the feral pig population nationwide is a staggering five million, with the animals present in 35 states. Texas, Florida, Alabama and California are among the states with the highest concentrations of pigs, which benefit from warm climates and year-round availability of food.
New York State's swine population has grown more slowly, possibly because of the cold climate's impact on litter size. The Peru group, once estimated at 18 pigs, has been whittled by collisions with cars, hunting and trapping. While most pigs weigh between 100 and 150 pounds, one pig captured in Peru was an impressive 300 pounds.
Wildlife managers and researchers nationally are exploring various control measures, from contraceptives and poisons to snares and aerial shooting. Some are even taking cues from the military by employing night-vision equipment and thermal imaging to track and kill the pigs.
In New York, the state's ordinarily strict hunting rules have been relaxed for feral swine. The Department of Environmental Conservation's Web site advises those with small game licenses to ''shoot and keep feral swine at any time and in any number.''
Rumor has it that Mr. Rulf's pigs are descendants of Eurasian boars raised by a local man to sell to hunting preserves, although state and local officials have not confirmed that. Regardless of their origin, officials are not taking chances in halting the pigs' progress, especially toward the six-million-acre Adirondack Park, the largest swath of pristine wilderness in the Northeast.
''They eat everything,'' Mr. Reed said. ''They'll eat the understory in a forest and dig up plants by rooting the ground for insects and roots. They compete with wildlife for food. They're the most destructive mammal out there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The feral pigs plaguing parts of upstate New York almost never appear in daylight, but a pack was caught on camera on a farm in Peru, N.Y., after dark. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION)
Feral pigs have been ransacking Bob Rulf's farm, eating apples and other crops. (A15)
 Peter Glushko, supervisor of the town of Peru, outside Rulfs Orchard, where feral pigs have wreaked havoc on crops. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NANCIE BATTAGLIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) MAPS: Peru, N.Y., is on Lake Champlain, south of Plattsburgh. (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (90%); ANIMALS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (86%); APPLE ORCHARDS (78%); WILDLIFE (77%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (73%); BIRDS (73%); MOUNTAINS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (62%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (55%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

COMPANY: CHARLOTTE'S WEB INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); WEST USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



457 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: China: Deadly Force by Police

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Two outbursts of violence involving fatal shootings by security forces took place last week in areas of China where ethnic tensions are running high, according to weekend reports by a Tibet advocacy group and Radio Free Asia.
The advocacy group, Free Tibet, said three Tibetan men were shot, one fatally, by security forces outside a police station where the men had gone to protest. The shootings took place on March 6 in Daka, known as Tagkhar in Tibetan, in the autonomous prefecture of Guoluo, or Golog, which is in the barren and remote western province of Qinghai. The man killed was Choeri, 28, and the two men with him who were wounded were Jamphal Lobdu and Karkho, both brothers, Free Tibet said. (Many Tibetans have only one name.) The shootings could not be independently confirmed. 
The group said Chinese security forces have shot and killed at least eight Tibetans in separate episodes during and after protests in the past month. The violence in Daka took place after about 100 Tibetans held a protest on Jan. 25 during which they tore down a Chinese flag at the town's government offices. The police then sought out the leaders of the protest, and on March 6 they detained a man named Thubwang. Choeri, Jamphal Lobdu and Karkho went to the police station to protest Thubwang's detention, and were shot, Free Tibet said. It is unclear what set off the shooting.
The past year has been an especially fraught one across the Tibetan plateau. Since March 2011, at least 25 Tibetans have set fire to themselves to protest Chinese rule and policies; of those, at least 17 have died. The self-immolations have prompted Chinese leaders to flood parts of the Tibetan plateau with security forces. That has raised tensions further, and protests have flared. Tibetans have complained of a state of siege in some towns on the plateau since a widespread Tibetan uprising in 2008.
The other act of violence involving fatal shootings took place in the region of Xinjiang, which is to the north of Tibet. There, ethnic Uighurs have protested discrimination by the ethnic Han, who are the majority in China. The shootings, in which at least four people died, took place last Friday, when police officers went into a house on a predawn raid, Radio Free Asia reported, citing interviews with police officials in the area. Radio Free Asia, which has a Uighur-language service, is financed by the United States government.
The police suspected a bomb-making group was in the house, and officers trying to enter were confronted by men armed with axes and knives, Radio Free Asia reported. The police opened fire. Those killed were Nesrullah, 21, who had been wanted by the police; Nurmemet, 25; Abdurehim, who was in his 30s; and Abdulla, also over 30, Radio Free Asia reported.
As in Tibetan areas, violence has erupted in recent years in towns where Uighurs and ethnic Han, who dominate China, are in a struggle over political power and economic opportunities. On Feb. 28, about 20 people were killed in clashes in the region. The party chief of Xinjiang, Zhang Chunxian, has, like his predecessor, adopted an iron-fist strategy since taking office in 2010 and has announced ''strike hard'' campaigns in Uighur areas. Human rights advocates say such campaigns, which take place occasionally in Xinjiang, contribute to the discontent that is growing among the Uighurs.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (92%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); ARSON (69%); FIRES (64%)

COMPANY: GOLOG FRANCE SARL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); XIZANG, CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NORTHWEST CHINA (92%); QINGHAI, CHINA (58%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%) TIBET (97%); CHINA (96%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



458 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: Use of Public Transit Grew In 2011, Report Indicates

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
In another indication that more people are getting back to work, Americans took 200 million more rides last year on subways, commuter trains, light-rail systems and public buses than they did the year before, according to a new report by a leading transit association. 
Americans took 10.4 billion rides on public transportation in 2011 -- a billion more than they took in 2000, and the second most since 1957, according to a report being released Monday by the American Public Transportation Association, a nonprofit organization that represents transit systems. The increase in ridership came after the recession contributed to declines in the previous two years.
With the return of jobs came a return of straphangers. Studies have found that nearly 60 percent of transit rides are taken by people commuting to and from work, and there were big increases in ridership in parts of the country that gained employment. And with the price of gas rising again -- the $4 gallon has already returned in some states -- many systems are bracing for even more riders this year.
The increase was announced after Republicans in the House of Representatives proposed ending the three-decade practice of putting aside a portion of the nation's highway trust fund to pay for transit, worrying local transit systems and drawing heated opposition from Democrats and quite a few Republicans. Michael Melaniphy, the president of the transportation association, took pains to note that some of the strongest ridership growth was in rural communities, which are often represented in Congress by Republicans.
''What is exciting is that the uptick in ridership occurred in large, medium and small communities, showing the broad support that public transportation has nationwide,'' he said in a statement.
Ridership rose in many parts of the country whose employment pictures brightened, including Miami, Nashville, San Francisco, San Diego and Louisville, Ky. Dallas, which opened a new light-rail line in 2010, saw a large jump in its light-rail ridership last year.
But there are big challenges ahead for transit systems. Many have had to cut service and raise fares since the downturn began, and the trouble is not over for many systems. So while Boston saw record ridership levels last year -- the most since the 1940s -- it also faces a big deficit in the coming year, brought on by rising operating costs, high debt and sales tax revenues that have failed to meet expectations in recent years. As a result, the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority has proposed significant fare increases and service reductions, which could deter riders.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A commuter train in California. Americans took 10.4 billion rides on public transportation in 2011, according to a report. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE BLAKE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (91%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TRAINS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (65%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (65%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (51%); SALES TAX (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ASSOCIATION (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ASSOCIATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



459 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Report Shows Depth of the Distress in Europe

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- While the European Central Bank's emergency loan program late last year helped avoid a banking crisis, there is doubt over whether the action will promote economic growth by encouraging lending to businesses and consumers, according to a new report by the Bank for International Settlements.
European banks remain highly leveraged and will not be able to substantially step up lending until they have further reduced risk, said Stephen Cecchetti, head of the monetary and economic department at the Bank for International Settlements, which acts as a clearinghouse for the world's central banks and released its quarterly report late Sunday. Emergency loans provided by the European Central Bank will help stabilize banks, but it will take a while for the money to reach bank customers. 
''Do not expect banks to respond by increasing their lending,'' Mr. Cecchetti said during a conference call with reporters on Friday.
The report confirmed that tensions in Europe had fallen markedly since the central bank issued more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) in 1 percent loans to banks in December and again earlier this month.
It has not been clear, however, whether the central bank had achieved its goal of stimulating lending to the private sector. Mario Draghi, the president of the bank, said last week that there were signs the money was finding its way to businesses, but there remained a lack of comprehensive data.
''There has been a modest pickup in credit and bank lending'' since the first round of the loans, Mr. Draghi said, citing an internal survey of businesses in the euro area.
While it was clear at the end of 2011 that the European financial system was under severe stress, the new report provided data on how bad the situation had become. Because of its close ties to most of the world's central banks, the Bank for International Settlements has access to detailed data on cross-border lending and other money flows.
By some measures, tensions were at their highest since the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, the event that marked the beginning of a severe financial crisis.
Foreign lenders were rapidly reducing their exposure to troubled countries in southern Europe, according to the report. Lending to Italian banks fell by $60 billion, or 9 percent, from July through September, while lending to Spain fell by $45 billion, or 7.5 percent.
Lending to banks in Portugal, which was already low, dropped by $13 billion, or 7.7 percent, while lending to Greece fell by $6.5 billion, or 8.4 percent.
By contrast, money flowed to Britain, Germany and Switzerland, which investors regarded as safe havens.
The flight of capital came as banks were having trouble selling their own corporate bonds to raise money and as rates for short-term interbank lending were soaring.
The 10 largest money market funds in the United States had stopped lending altogether to Italian, Spanish, Portuguese and Irish banks by the end of 2011 and had almost completely pulled out of France, according to the Bank for International Settlements.
''Many banks had been unable to raise unsecured funds in bond markets, and the cost of short-term funding had risen to levels only previously exceeded during the 2008 banking crisis,'' the Bank for International Settlements said.
Problems at banks led to steep declines in lending. The weakest banks in Europe -- Greek banks and those identified by European regulators as being short on capital -- cut new lending by 14.6 percent in the last six months of 2011, according to the Bank for International Settlements. The remaining, healthier banks cut new lending by 6 percent.
The European Central Bank's emergency loans, as well as more decisive action by European political leaders, led to a steep decline in the rates that banks had to pay to issue their own corporate bonds, to borrow money from other banks for short periods or to obtain American dollars, according to the data.
But, Mr. Cecchetti said, ''this definitely does not mean we are out of the woods.''
''Financial conditions have improved, but they are still strained,'' he said. Many countries are still trying to return to the same level of economic output they had before the financial crisis began, he noted.
''There has been basically no growth in advanced economies in five years,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank, suggested emergency loans had stimulated lending, but doubts remained. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX DOMANSKI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); INTERBANK LENDING (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (65%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); PORTUGAL (78%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (73%); GREECE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



460 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM PARAGUAY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: An Indigenous Language With Unique Staying Power

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

 BODY:
ASUNCION, Paraguay -- Legislators on the floor of Congress deliver speeches in it. Lovers entwined on Asuncion's park benches murmur sweet nothings with its high-pitched, nasal and guttural sounds. Soccer fans use it when insulting referees.
To this day, Paraguay remains the only country in the Americas where a majority of the population speaks one indigenous language: Guarani. It is enshrined in the Constitution, officially giving it equal footing with the language of European conquest, Spanish. And in the streets, it is a source of national pride.
''Only 54 of nearly 12,000 schools teach Portuguese,'' said Nancy Benitez, director of curriculum at the Ministry of Education, of the language of Brazil, the giant neighbor that dominates trade with Paraguay. ''But every one of our schools teaches Guarani.''
Paraguay differs significantly even from other multilingual Latin American nations like neighboring Bolivia, where a majority of the population is indigenous. Languages like Quechua and Aymara are spoken by different groups there, but rarely by people of mixed ancestry or the traditional elite. 
In Paraguay, indigenous peoples account for less than 5 percent of the population. Yet Guarani is spoken by an estimated 90 percent of Paraguayans, including many in the middle class, upper-crust presidential candidates, and even newer arrivals.
''Mba'eichapa?'' asked Alex Jun, 27, a Korean immigrant who works in his family's restaurant in Asuncion's old center, as he greeted customers with a Guarani phrase translating as ''How are you?''
''We'd go broke if we didn't know the basics,'' he explained.
Linguists and historians say the complex reasons for the broad use of the indigenous language here date to the earliest days of Spain's incursions in the 16th century. The encomienda, a system common within the Spanish empire that forced indigenous people to work for Europeans and their descendants, did not penetrate big parts of the territory that eventually became Paraguay.
Meanwhile, Jesuits created communities for the Guarani and other indigenous groups covering vast expanses, as depicted in the 1986 film ''The Mission.'' They armed Guarani Indians against slaving expeditions, while nourishing the language in books and sermons.
When Spain expelled the Jesuits in 1767, more than 100,000 Guarani speakers spread throughout Paraguay, said Shaw N. Gynan, an American linguist. Decades later, Guarani speakers formed the bulk of support for the post-independence ruler Jose Gaspar Rodriguez de Francia, who took aim at the Spanish-speaking elite.
A despot who ruled until 1840, Francia was called Carai Guazu, Great Lord. He banned those in the light-skinned upper class from marrying each other, sealed Paraguay's borders and used Guarani-speaking informants called pyragues, or fleet-footed ones, to bolster his tyrannical regime.
The result: a hobbled Europeanized elite by the end of Francia's rule. Other dictators would later use Guarani to stir nationalist fervor. Generals rallied troops in Guarani in the devastating Triple Alliance War in the 1860s, which killed more than 60 percent of the population.
Isolation also sustained Guarani. The Paraguayan novelist Augusto Roa Bastos, who mixed Guarani with Spanish in his writing, called this landlocked, California-size nation an ''island surrounded by land.''
Under Gen. Alfredo Stroessner, the dictator who ruled from 1954 to 1989, Guarani thrived. At one point during General Stroessner's rule, the writer Graham Greene warned that visitors risked being shot in the street by police officers if they did not understand Guarani.
General Stroessner, the son of a Bavarian immigrant and his Guarani-speaking wife, made it an official language, employed his own espionage network of pyragues and rewarded rural Guarani-speakers with land for their loyalty.
''As disturbing as this may seem, political leaders in Paraguay have found it convenient to appeal to the masses in Guarani, often suppressing liberalizing forces in the process,'' said Mr. Gynan, the linguist.
When democratic rule was established in the 1990s, steps again were taken to strengthen Guarani. The 1992 Constitution made Guarani equal to Spanish. Officials said they have aggressively expanded Guarani instruction in primary schools.
Teaching Guarani is a subject infused with nationalism and competing theories of how to prevent Guarani from being eclipsed by Spanish, long dominant in the legal system and in business.
Meanwhile, Guarani is treading into new realms. Works like ''Don Quixote'' and the ''Book of Mormon'' recently gained Guarani translations. Those proficient in written Guarani exchange text-messages farewells like ''Jajuechata Ko'ero,'' which means, ''We'll see each other if tomorrow comes.''
A vibrant linguistic crossroads also persists in yopara, a mixture of Guarani and Spanish. One yopara phrase is ''ley del mbarate,'' or ''law of the strongest.'' It captures the essence of a nation known as a haven for smugglers, arms dealers and counterfeiters.
Guarani has also made diplomatic inroads. The former American ambassador, James Cason, a fluent Guarani speaker who described it as ''probably harder than Chinese,'' recorded a Guarani folk-song album in 2008 that put him on some radio stations' playlists.
''It was obviously astute for Cason to do this,'' said Maria Eva Mansfeld de Aguero, a member of the National Bilingualism Commission. ''A diplomat here shouldn't just speak Spanish at cocktail parties.''
Not everyone is bullish about Guarani's prospects. Ramon Silva, a poet and essayist who hosts a daily television program in Guarani, is one skeptic. ''Guarani is slowly advancing to its death,'' he said.
''It's the perfect language for verbally disemboweling an adversary,'' Mr. Silva said. ''But Guarani is in intensive care.''
He said his major concern involved the creation of new words in Guarani to replace words borrowed from Spanish. ''Using poorly created words may be well intentioned,'' he said, ''but neglects the reality of the language and pushes speakers into Spanish.''
Mr. Silva's books still sell out, including a poetry collection titled ''Na'ape,'' a work he proudly called ''anti-dictatorial and vulgar.'' The title, which translates as ''take this'' or ''showing the middle finger,'' opens a window, he says, into Guarani's mischievous capacities.
Others here share Mr. Silva's concerns about Guarani's long-term future, pointing to factors like the increasing migration of peasants from the rural interior, where Guarani is often the dominant language, to cities, where Spanish holds more sway.
Still, for a glimpse into Guarani's future, and the nationalist sentiment the language still arouses among some speakers, the writing may literally be on Asuncion's walls.
As many Paraguayans chafe at Brazil's rising economic profile, one line of graffiti scrawled here reads, ''Itaipu Nane Mbae.'' It refers to the huge Itaipu hydroelectric dam on the border with Brazil, owned by both nations but viewed by some as a symbol of submission to South America's powerhouse.
''Itaipu,'' the graffiti reads in translation, ''is ours.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The group Invidente plays typical Guarani music on a Guarani-language television show. The language is spoken by an estimated 90 percent of Paraguayans.
 Elementary school students learning Guarani, which is a required subject in Paraguay. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NOAH FRIEDMAN-RUDOVSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); LINGUISTICS (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (76%); CURRICULA (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); SOCCER (72%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (70%); HISTORY (67%); IMMIGRATION (65%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARAGUAY (98%); SPAIN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); BRAZIL (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



461 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Google Plus Battles Perceptions

BYLINE: By NICK BILTON

 BODY:
Google has a bit of an image problem.
For people peering in, Google Plus, Google's latest attempt at social media, has been a ghost town. Some say it is a desolate wasteland that is used only by, well, Google employees and a few Google faithful.
Yet internally, Google says that Google Plus is the greatest thing since sliced bread, or cars that can drive themselves. It says Google Plus is the quickest-growing product the company has ever built. 
''Not only is Google Plus not a ghost town,'' Vic Gundotra, Google's vice president for engineering, said in an interview at the company's Mountain View, Calif., headquarters, ''we have never seen anything grow this fast. Ever.''
In response to the public perception of Google Plus, the company said it has decided to share some of the user numbers for Google Plus. About 50 million people who have created a Google Plus account actively use the company's Google Plus-enhanced products daily, Mr. Gundotra said. Over a 30-day period, he said, that number is 100 million active users.
This is where the image problem gets a little bit blurry.
Although these numbers sound impressive, the catch is that Google Plus-enhanced properties include YouTube, the Android Marketplace and Google.com, the company's flagship search engine. Yet Google contends that these numbers illustrate that more than 100 million people have signed up for a Google Plus account and are now actively engaging with Google Plus-related products across the company.
In a view from outside the company, a report released last month by ComScore, the market research firm, says Google Plus users spend about three minutes a month on the social network. By comparison, ComScore says that people spend an average 405 minutes a month on Facebook, the service Google Plus is trying to displace.
Although Google did not share the amount of time people spend on Google Plus, the company said numbers did not illustrate what was really happening at Google.
''This is just the next version of Google,'' Mr. Gundotra said, noting that he sees Google Plus as a social blanket that envelopes the entire Google experience. ''Everything is being upgraded. We already have users. We're now upgrading them to what we consider Google 2.0.''
In Google's eyes, citing the amount of time people spend on Google Plus would be like judging a takeout restaurant by how many people sit down to eat at a table, even though a number of people take food to go.
But Nate Elliott, a vice president and principal analyst with Forrester Research, said the numbers just are not adding up correctly.
''I don't know how you can have a social layer without having a social network that people use,'' Mr. Elliott said in a phone interview. ''If Google is saying that someone who once signed up for Google Plus makes them an active user, then that's not entirely convincing.''
Mr. Elliott said that although there were pockets of people using Google's social network, its use did not come close to that of Facebook or Twitter. Google Plus ''looks like Facebook from one year ago,'' he said.
Google cited advertising as a prime example of the success of Google Plus. Mr. Gundotra said that any advertisement on Google that has a ''social annotation'' to it, specifically someone who has clicked the +1 button on an ad, is experiencing a drastic increase in engagement.
''We are seeing 5 to 10 percent click-through-rate uplift on any ad that has a social annotation on our own Web sites,'' Mr. Gundotra said. ''We have been in this business for a long time, and there are very few things that give you a 5 to 10 percent increase on ad engagement.''
Mr. Gundotra said Google Plus-enriched ads differentiated Google from social competitors, as the company can now deliver a ''socially enhanced ad at the time of intent'' rather than an ad placed randomly in a social stream. For example, when someone searches for a microwave, Google can deliver an ad for a microwave that has been suggested by people in a user's Google Plus Circles.
Realistically, the debate over how many people use Google Plus, how many real users it has, or how long they spend clicking little +1 buttons on Google properties, seems almost irrelevant. Google is determined to make Google Plus work at all costs, even in the face of naysayers.
Or as Mr. Gundotra put it, ''We have started the social engines at Google and we're about to step on the gas.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Vic Gundotra, Google's vice president for engineering, said the company had never seen anything grow as fast as Google Plus. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID PAUL MORRIS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (70%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (70%); RESTAURANTS (67%); SEARCH ENGINES (65%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (63%); FAST FOOD (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); FACEBOOK INC (53%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); FB (NASDAQ) (53%); FORR (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



462 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Family Opts To Abandon Megachurch It Founded

BYLINE: By IAN LOVETT

 BODY:
GARDEN GROVE, Calif. -- After decades at the pulpit here, the family of the Rev. Robert H. Schuller has cut its ties with the Crystal Cathedral, the Orange County megachurch he founded.
Amid bankruptcy proceedings for the church, the Rev. Sheila Schuller Coleman, Dr. Schuller's daughter and the head pastor at Crystal Cathedral, announced during a service on Sunday that it was the last time she would preach at the famous glass-paned church.
The family will also cease to take part in ''Hour of Power,'' the program that began in 1970 and at its peak beamed Dr. Schuller's upbeat message to two million viewers every week. 
''This is the last Sunday that we will worship in this building,'' Ms. Schuller Coleman said. ''With the vulnerable economic situation combined with the hostile relationship with the 'Hour of Power' board, the local church has decided that we need to find a new place to worship.''
The Schuller family's departure from Crystal Cathedral Ministries ends a stunning decline in fortune for the church's founder, who was one of the most successful preachers in the world, but who has watched in recent years as the church slid toward financial ruin.
Dr. Schuller founded the church in 1955, and by the 1980s it was drawing more than 10,000 worshipers each week. But over-aggressive expansion of its campus and dwindling membership left the church tens of millions of dollars in debt, and Crystal Cathedral Ministries filed for bankruptcy in 2010.
This year, Crystal Cathedral was sold to the Roman Catholic Diocese of Orange for $57.5 million as part of a plan to allow the ministry to pay its creditors and emerge from bankruptcy.
The agreement with the diocese allowed Crystal Cathedral Ministries to remain in its longtime home for three more years. But a dispute with the Crystal Cathedral Ministries board has suddenly pushed the Schullers from the location much sooner.
On Saturday, Dr. Schuller and his wife, Arvella, resigned from the board of Crystal Cathedral Ministries, citing an ''adversarial and negative atmosphere'' amid a dispute over payments from the board to Dr. Schuller for the use of his likeness and sermons on ''Hour of Power.'' That left no family members on the board, which had fired Dr. Schuller's daughter Gretchen Penner and two of his sons-in-law just days earlier.
Ms. Schuller Coleman pledged to continue her work at another location yet to be determined, under the name Hope Center OC.
''I will not quit,'' she repeated several times as the audience in the sparsely filled pews stood to applaud.
The local church, Ms. Schuller Coleman explained, has a separate board of directors from Crystal Cathedral Ministries, which she said had been founded to oversee the ''Hour of Power'' broadcasts. The local board, she said, continues to support her.
In a statement later Sunday, Dr. Schuller said he would bless his daughter's ministry but would not worship at the new location or commit to any further participation at Crystal Cathedral.
Because Crystal Cathedral Ministries controls nearly all of the assets, Ms. Schuller Coleman will be starting almost from scratch. She said Hope Center OC had already received more than $15,000 in donations, which she added was much more than her parents had started with when they founded Crystal Cathedral.
''Dad said that we would never let the 'Hour of Power' board overshadow and take over and tell the local church what we can or cannot do,'' Ms. Schuller Coleman told reporters after the service on Sunday. ''Quite honestly, that's been pretty much what's happened.
''This has all happened literally overnight,'' she added. ''We still don't know where we'll be meeting next week. It might be a park. But it will be somewhere.'' Whether the flock from Crystal Cathedral will follow her remains to be seen. Some members cried during the service as Ms. Schuller Coleman explained her plan to leave. And afterward, dozens of people stood in line to speak with her, some hugging her, asking questions about where next week's service might be or snapping pictures to remember the beautiful building they would no longer occupy.
Willy Smelt has been attending church here for decades, since before the glass building was constructed. ''It's heartbreaking,'' Ms. Smelt, 78, said. ''I feel very, very sad -- I do. But I am going to follow them. Yes.'' Her daughter Irene, however, was less sure. Though she continues to support the Schullers, she said, she is upset about the money they donated to help build the campus. ''You entrust everything to this, and then all of a sudden it's gone,'' she said. ''I'm going to go next week and see how it is. But I may also continue to come here.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); FAMILY (78%); BOARD CHANGES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (68%); RESIGNATIONS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

TITLE: Hour of Power (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



463 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: What Greece Means

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
So Greece has officially defaulted on its debt to private lenders. It was an ''orderly'' default, negotiated rather than simply announced, which I guess is a good thing. Still, the story is far from over. Even with this debt relief, Greece -- like other European nations forced to impose austerity in a depressed economy -- seems doomed to many more years of suffering.
And that's a tale that needs telling. For the past two years, the Greek story has, as one recent paper on economic policy put it, been ''interpreted as a parable of the risks of fiscal profligacy.'' Not a day goes by without some politician or pundit intoning, with the air of a man conveying great wisdom, that we must slash government spending right away or find ourselves turning into Greece, Greece I tell you. 
Just to take one recent example, when Mitch Daniels, the governor of Indiana, delivered the Republican reply to the State of the Union address, he insisted that ''we're only a short distance behind Greece, Spain and other European countries now facing economic catastrophe.'' By the way, apparently nobody told him that Spain had low government debt and a budget surplus on the eve of the crisis; it's in trouble thanks to private-sector, not public-sector, excess.
But what Greek experience actually shows is that while running deficits in good times can get you in trouble -- which is indeed the story for Greece, although not for Spain -- trying to eliminate deficits once you're already in trouble is a recipe for depression.
These days, austerity-induced depressions are visible all around Europe's periphery. Greece is the worst case, with unemployment soaring to 20 percent even as public services, including health care, collapse. But Ireland, which has done everything the austerity crowd wanted, is in terrible shape too, with unemployment near 15 percent and real G.D.P. down by double digits. Portugal and Spain are in similarly dire straits.
And austerity in a slump doesn't just inflict vast suffering. There is growing evidence that it is self-defeating even in purely fiscal terms, as the combination of falling revenues due to a depressed economy and worsened long-term prospects actually reduces market confidence and makes the future debt burden harder to handle. You have to wonder how countries that are systematically denying a future to their young people -- youth unemployment in Ireland, which used to be lower than in the United States, is now almost 30 percent, while it's near 50 percent in Greece -- are supposed to achieve enough growth to service their debt.
This was not what was supposed to happen. Two years ago, as many policy makers and pundits began calling for a pivot from stimulus to austerity, they promised big gains in return for the pain. ''The idea that austerity measures could trigger stagnation is incorrect,'' Jean-Claude Trichet, then the president of the European Central Bank, declared in June 2010. Instead, he insisted, fiscal discipline would inspire confidence, and this would lead to economic growth.
And every slight uptick in an austerity economy has been hailed as proof that the policy works. Irish austerity has been proclaimed a success story not once but twice, first in the summer of 2010, then again last fall; each time the supposed good news quickly evaporated.
You may ask what alternative countries like Greece and Ireland had, and the answer is that they had and have no good alternatives short of leaving the euro, an extreme step that, realistically, their leaders cannot take until all other options have failed -- a state of affairs that, if you ask me, Greece is rapidly approaching.
Germany and the European Central Bank could take action to make that extreme step less necessary, both by demanding less austerity and doing more to boost the European economy as a whole. But the main point is that America does have an alternative: we have our own currency, and we can borrow long-term at historically low interest rates, so we don't need to enter a downward spiral of austerity and economic contraction.
So it is time to stop invoking Greece as a cautionary tale about the dangers of deficits; from an American point of view, Greece should instead be seen as a cautionary tale about the dangers of trying to reduce deficits too quickly, while the economy is still deeply depressed. (And yes, despite some better news lately, our economy is still deeply depressed.)
The truth is that if you want to know who is really trying to turn America into Greece, it's not those urging more stimulus for our still-depressed economy; it's the people demanding that we emulate Greek-style austerity even though we don't face Greek-style borrowing constraints, and thereby plunge ourselves into a Greek-style depression.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) GREECE (94%); EUROPE (94%); SPAIN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



464 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: In Court Exchange, Lawyer for Banks Accuses MBIA Chief of Insider Trading

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN and FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
The nasty litigation between a group of banks and the bond insurer MBIA just got nastier.
A lawyer for the banks has accused Joseph W. Brown Jr., MBIA's chief executive, of illegally trading in MBIA stock while in possession of confidential information. The insider trading claim was made during a hearing late Friday at Federal District Court in Manhattan.
Robert J. Giuffra Jr., the banks' lawyer, said that Mr. Brown was ''pregnant with inside information'' about MBIA's pending February 2009 restructuring when he bought his company's stock in the months before the announcement. 
''Mr. Giuffra's accusations are false and irresponsible,'' Marc E. Kasowitz, a lawyer for MBIA, said in a statement. ''All of Mr. Brown's stock purchases were approved in advance by counsel, fully disclosed, and in full compliance with both securities laws and company policies.''
MBIA's restructuring is at the center of the banks' lawsuit, which accuses the insurer of defrauding them when it split itself into two operations, separating its traditional municipal bond insurance business from its exposures to mortgage-backed securities. They say that the restructuring - made in the depths of the financial crisis - was a sham, making it likely that MBIA would eventually be able to avoid paying out losses from insuring mortgage-backed securities owned by the banks.
When MBIA disclosed the restructuring, its stock price popped about 30 percent, rising to $4.51 a share on Feb. 18, 2009, from $3.48 a share a day earlier. Its stock closed at $9.61 on Friday.
The insider trading claims against Mr. Brown are just the latest salvo in the morass of litigation weighing on MBIA since the collapse of the housing market. MBIA, along with a host of other bond insurers, ran into deep trouble when many of the mortgage-backed securities that they had insured went sour.
A group of 18 banks originally brought a lawsuit in New York state court against MBIA. Fourteen of the banks have settled, including Morgan Stanley, which late last year agreed to drop out of the case in exchange for a $1.1 billion payment from MBIA. The four remaining plaintiffs are Bank of America, UBS, Societe Generale, and Natixis.
The banks' lawsuit is one of three different cases involving MBIA related to its 2009 restructuring.
Aurelius Capital Management, a hedge fund that owns mortgage-backed securities insured by MBIA, is the lead plaintiff in a federal case alleging the same claims as the banks. And the banks are plaintiffs in a state-court action seeking to reverse the New York Insurance Department's approval of MBIA's restructuring.
MBIA has also gone on the offensive, filing several lawsuits against financial institutions. Among them is an action in New York state court against Bank of America and its Countrywide unit. The insurer has accused Countrywide of lying to it about the quality of the mortgages that were bundled into securities insured by MBIA.
There was also a hearing on Friday in the Countrywide litigation on whether MBIA can depose Brian T. Moynihan, the chief executive of Bank of America. The bank's lawyers have resisted this request, and on Friday accused the bond insurer of trying to depose Mr. Moynihan for ''harassment purposes'' and argued that it would impose ''unnecessary burdens'' on him.
The judge presiding over the MBIA-Countrywide dispute did not issue a ruling on Friday.
There was also nothing resolved during Friday's session in federal court. In the unusual hearing, Richard J. Sullivan, a federal judge, and Barbara R. Kapnick, a state court justice, sat side by side to try to resolve disputes in the parallel state and federal lawsuits brought by the banks and Aurelius, respectively. (Judge Sullivan ceded his large, plush chair to Judge Kapnick, and sat instead next to her in a smaller, less commodious-looking chair brought in for the hearing.)
The central issue debated during the session was the scope of a subpoena that the banks had issued to the state insurance department. The subpoena requested information related to the department's discussions about MBIA's application to split into two operations.
Mr. Kasowitz, the lawyer for MBIA, and a lawyer for the state agency argued that the request was overbroad and redundant. MBIA has already produced 22 million documents, he said.
The lawyers on all sides sparred and interrupted each other throughout the hearing. At one point, David W. Ichel, a lawyer at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett representing Aurelius, began speaking over Judge Sullivan, who cut him off.
''You make a lot of money, but I get to wear this,'' Mr. Sullivan said, tugging on his robe. ''So you can't interrupt me.''
The level of vitriol peaked when Mr. Giuffra accused Mr. Brown, MBIA's chief executive, of insider trading. Mr. Giuffra raised the issue in the context of suggesting that Mr. Brown and the other MBIA's executives had a financial motive to execute the restructuring.
According to securities filings, Mr. Brown made four purchases of MBIA stock worth a total of about $1 million from November 2008 to January 2009. MBIA submitted its application to the insurance department in December 2008.
In the fall of 2008, the state's insurance department discussed MBIA's potential restructuring with the company's executives, according to an affidavit filed by Eric R. Dinallo, the former state insurance superintendent, as part of the litigation. Mr. Dinallo said that given MBIA's problems at the time, he was open to considering the insurer's restructuring proposal.
MBIA's lawyer, Mr. Kasowitz, took umbrage at the accusations during the hearing. He called them ''irresponsible'' and said that Mr. Giuffra made the claim only because the news media were present.
Mr. Brown, who owns about 4.3 million shares, or about $41 million worth of MBIA stock, has not sold a share since rejoining the company as its chief executive in February 2008. He served an earlier stint in the post from 1999 to 2004.
During one heated exchange on Friday, Judge Sullivan warned the lawyers that, at least in his courtroom, they needed to tone it down. If not, the judge said, ''the two of you can settle this on the street corner.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At left, Joseph W. Brown Jr., the chief of MBIA, and Robert J. Giuffra Jr., who is representing a group of banks in their suit. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MBIA, VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS
 OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAWYERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); APPROVALS (77%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: MBIA INC (92%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); NATIXIS SA (55%)

TICKER: MBI (NYSE) (92%); GLE (PAR) (58%); GLE (BIT) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (56%); KN (PAR) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (55%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



465 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: Military Points to Risks Of a Syrian Intervention

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER; Eric Schmitt contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Despite growing calls for the United States to help stop the bloodshed in Syria, senior Pentagon officials are stepping up their warnings that military intervention would be a daunting and protracted operation, requiring at least weeks of exclusively American airstrikes, with the potential for killing vast numbers of civilians and plunging the country closer to civil war.
The officials say that Syria presents a far larger problem than did Libya, which required a seven-month NATO air campaign last year in which hundreds of aircraft dropped and fired 7,700 bombs and missiles.
Although the United States has the military capability to launch sustained airstrikes in Syria -- ''We can do anything,'' the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, told the Senate last week -- defense officials say they are concerned about four tough challenges: the risks in attacking Syria's plentiful and sophisticated Russian-made air defenses, which are located close to major population centers; arming a deeply splintered Syrian opposition; the potential for starting a proxy war with Iran or Russia, two crucial allies of Syria; and the lack, at least so far, of an international coalition willing to take action against the government of President Bashar al-Assad. 
One senior defense official said over the weekend that even creating ''safe havens,'' or protected areas inside Syria for civilians, would be such a complex operation that military planners were ''looking at a serious contingent of U.S. ground troops'' to help establish and maintain them, should the United States take such a course of action.
The planning is in response to a request by President Obama for preliminary military options from the Pentagon, even though the administration still believes that diplomatic and economic pressure is the best way to stop the violent repression of Mr. Assad's government. The options under review include humanitarian airlifts, naval monitoring of Syria and the establishment of a no-fly zone, among other possibilities.
Last week General Dempsey and Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta said the military was only in the earliest stages of considering the possibilities. Modern commanders in chief have routinely asked for military contingency plans during crises overseas.
Senator John McCain of Arizona and some of his fellow Republicans continue to argue that the United States has a responsibility to involve itself in the Syrian rebellion. ''How many more have to die?'' Mr. McCain demanded in a Senate hearing last week, referring to what the United Nations estimates are 7,500 people killed in less than a year in Syria.
Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said in an interview that the United States had far more strategic interest in Syria than it did in Libya and that the risks of military action could be worth it. ''We can't do every war where you never lose an aircraft,'' he said.
Mr. McCain, a retired Navy pilot who was shot down and captured during the Vietnam War and who ran against Mr. Obama for president in 2008, has particularly angered military planners for what they see as his emotional and cavalier comments about getting into another war. The planners say they also need more direction from senior officials in Washington on the administration's goals and desired end-state in Syria.
''We've been sucked into this open-ended arrangement before, and we're not going there again,'' a senior military official said, speaking of Libya, which required extensive American air power -- as well as hundreds of cruise missiles fired from American ships and submarines -- to take out Libya's air defenses so that European warplanes could operate freely. Even then, the United States continued to supply ammunition and refueling planes and fly combat missions.
Defense and intelligence officials say that Syria's integrated air defenses -- a combination of thousands of surface-to-air missiles, radars and antiaircraft guns -- are not only more advanced than those in Libya, they are also arrayed in densely populated areas on the country's western border, meaning that even with precision bombing, civilians nearby would probably be killed.
''There would be some severe collateral damage going after those areas,'' Mr. Panetta said last week.
As in Libya, the early stages of an air campaign over Syria would be almost entirely American because of the United States' arsenal and electronic warfare capabilities and would probably take, General Dempsey said, ''an extended period of time and a great number of aircraft.''
Once the United States had air dominance, it would be possible to create either safe havens or a ''humanitarian corridor'' -- a secure exit route for refugees to, say, Turkey -- but military officials say the corridor and havens would be vulnerable to attack by what American intelligence officials say is a formidable, 330,000-troop Syrian Army.
''I don't know how long they would tolerate those safe havens,'' Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island and a former Army Ranger, said in a Senate hearing last week. ''But second, given safe havens, it would also I think imply that someone would have to go in and organize training and organize, literally, an army. That could take months if not years.''
Military officials say that the opposition does not have control of any one area in Syria, unlike in Libya, where, General Dempsey said, ''we had tribal forces in the east and west collapsing on the center.'' In Syria, he said, ''there's no geographic density of population to collapse anywhere; they're all intermingled.''
Military and intelligence officials say that the opposition to Mr. Assad remains splintered, made up of as many as 100 groups, and that so far no clear leaders have emerged. American officials are considering providing the opposition with an array of technical assistance, potentially including communications equipment, but have yet to be successful in bringing the disparate groups together into a cohesive council.
A major concern of the Pentagon is Iran, Syria's most important ally. Military and intelligence officials say that Iran has recently flown into Syria small arms, chiefly rocket-propelled grenades, as well as technological equipment and high-ranking experts to assist the Assad government in interrupting social media communications and the internet.
''They're providing listening capability, eavesdropping capability to try and pick up where the opposition networks are at, and they're providing experts who I can only say are experts in oppressing,'' Gen. James N. Mattis, the head of the American military's Central Command, said in a Senate hearing last week.
At the same time, Russia is a leading arms supplier to Syria and maintains a naval station at the Syrian port city of Tartus, on the Mediterranean coast, its only military installation outside the former Soviet territories. Moscow has pushed hard in recent weeks to preserve its relationship with Mr. Assad, most notably vetoing, along with China, a United Nations Security Council resolution calling on Mr. Assad to resign.
''If we jump in with purely military instruments as the U.S., absent a broader strategy, we could very quickly hasten reactions from others, namely Iran and Russia, to bolster the regime and start us down a road towards greater confrontation,'' Michele A. Flournoy, a former top Pentagon official, said in Washington last week.
Administration officials say that they remain concerned about Syria's chemical and biological weapons, believed to be among the largest stockpiles in the world, and that they are in discussions with allies in the region about how to secure them.
''I'm not saying it's a fait accompli that if they're left unsecured, automatically someone can grab them and use them,'' General Mattis said. ''They may end up frying themselves. But I think that it's going to take an international effort when Assad falls, and he will fall, in order to secure these weapons.''
In the meantime, the Obama administration continues to review all military options in Syria. ''Could it be done?'' said Lt. Gen. David A. Deptula, who retired last year as the Air Force's top intelligence official, speaking of a potential American air campaign in Syria. ''The answer is yes. But it would not be a cakewalk.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); BOMBINGS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%)

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); SYRIA (98%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



466 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Doomsday Has Its Day In the Sun

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

 BODY:
There's a new modifier on the TV grid, and we should all be afraid.
Television has long been full of ''Americans'' (''American Restoration,'' ''American Chopper,'' ''American Hoggers'') and ''Extremes'' (''Extreme Marksmen,'' ''Extreme Makeover,'' ''Extreme Couponing'') and ''Tops'' (''Top Gear,'' ''Top Chef,'' ''Top Shot''). In recent weeks, though, an interloper has staked a claim: ''Doomsday.''
Last month the National Geographic Channel introduced ''Doomsday Preppers,'' a Tuesday-night reality series about people who are stockpiling, arming and otherwise preparing for some kind of apocalypse. Last week it was the Discovery Channel's turn. Its new ''Doomsday Bunkers,'' on Wednesday nights, is about Deep Earth Bunker, a company that builds underground getaways for the types of people seen in ''Doomsday Preppers.'' 
Watch either show for a short while and, unless you're a prepper yourself, you might be moderately amused at the absurd excess on display and at what an easy target the prepper worldview is for ridicule. Watch a bit longer, though, and amusement may give way to annoyance at how offensively anti-life these shows are, full of contempt for humankind.
''Doomsday Preppers'' introduces an array of end-of-civilization types who at first seem surprisingly varied. These preppers live all over the country, in rural areas, suburbs and cities. Each has a different reason for turning a perfectly adequate home into a canned-food warehouse or building an escape hideaway (or bug-out location, to use the prepper term) in the mountains. One expects the North and South Poles to swap places, one a global economic collapse, one ''an electromagnetic pulse that will disable the transportation system of the United States.''
But the people on this show and the customers of Deep Earth Bunker are more alike than diverse. Who knows how representative these shows are of the prepper universe, but the people they feature are disproportionately white. They can't speak for long without employing that cliche involving excrement and a fan. And whatever their religious beliefs might be, something ''Preppers'' doesn't generally explore, most of them put their real faith in firearms.
''Preppers'' and ''Bunkers'' are both full of footage of people firing or lovingly cradling their weaponry, which in many cases is frighteningly extensive. (You really don't want the guy in last week's ''Preppers'' living next door; in addition to a house full of ammunition, he has stockpiled 50 gallons of gasoline, an unsettling combination.) One notable exception was Kathy Harrison, a New England woman profiled on a recent ''Preppers.''
''It's easy to feel a little left out of the prepper community if you live in New England and if you're not fairly right wing and conservative politically,'' she said in the segment. ''But I just don't spend my time worrying about stockpiling guns and ammunition, because our security comes not from stockpiling weapons but from having a community that respects each other, supports each other, and we have each others' backs.''
A noble sentiment. But the unmistakable impression left by these programs is that what these folks want most of all is not to protect their families -- the standard explanation for why they're doing what they're doing -- or even the dubious pleasure of being able to say to the rest of us, ''See, I told you the world was going to end.'' What they want is a license to open fire.
The number of bullets sprayed around in these shows, by adults and even their children, might give Rambo pause. Yet ''Doomsday Preppers'' and ''Doomsday Bunkers'' might still qualify as decent television if they were less credulous -- if, for instance, they asked a few basic questions:
Won't it be hard to find a plumber after civilization collapses? What will happen when that methane-harvesting septic system clogs?
Have the ''Doomsday Bunker'' diggers talked to the ''Doomsday Prepper'' people who think the Big Catastrophe will originate underground, via volcano or earthquake?
More seriously, what is the attraction of continuing to live in a world that forces people to cower in an underground box and spend all their time fending off those who want their freeze-dried apricots?
Even more seriously, what is the attraction of continuing to live in a world that will almost certainly not have television or the Internet, depriving doomsday types of the shows and Web sites that fuel their paranoia and sell products exploiting it?
''Doomsday Preppers'' even offers the people it profiles advice on improving their preparations. (National Geographic, though, on a Facebook page, gives commenters a chance to mock the preppers with a photo caption contest. Under a picture of a man neck-deep in a hole in the ground, someone has written, ''It looks like we'll be alright as long as the end of the world doesn't involve rain.'')
At their worst the shows don't merely give the prepper universe a pass on difficult questions; they reinforce its ugliest undercurrents. The most recent ''Doomsday Preppers'' included a white family 40 miles from Atlanta that is worried about rioting caused by economic collapse. ''Civil unrest will most likely ensue in the metropolitan areas and then spread out to the suburbs,'' the patriarch says.
His defenses include a generous supply of guns and a couple of German shepherds. An expert with a trained attack dog comes by to demonstrate what a properly schooled dog can do. He has a man dress up in protective gear and act menacing, then turns the dog loose. The fake intruder is black, the only black face in the hourlong program.
A free country, of course, includes the freedom to be a prepper. From a television perspective the real question is: What are these shows, so disdainful of life and human potential, doing on these outlets?
The Discovery Channel has on its resume some of the most beautiful, life-affirming documentaries ever broadcast, among them ''Life'' (2010) and ''Planet Earth'' (2007), with another, ''Frozen Planet,'' coming up this weekend. And National Geographic plasters this motto on most everything, including the television channel's Web site: ''Inspiring people to care about the planet since 1888.''
Hmm. Apparently ''inspiring people to prepare a personal fortress and pray for cataclysm so they can start blasting away at their neighbors'' was deemed not to have quite the same ring to it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Getting ready: A scene from ''Doomsday Preppers.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARC KROLL/SHARP ENTERTAINMENT) (C1)
On ''Doomsday Preppers'' David Sarti, a retired truck driver in Tennessee, patrols his farm with his dogs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHARP ENTERTAINMENT/NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC CHANNEL)
 The design for a survival structure as shown on ''Doomsday Bunkers.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DISCOVERY CHANNEL) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (73%); MOUNTAINS (69%); RELIGION (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%)

TICKER: DISCA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

TITLE: Doomsday Preppers (TV Program); Doomsday Bunkers (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



467 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Do Electronic Records Cut Health Costs?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Digital Records May Not Cut Health Costs, Study Cautions'' (Business Day, March 6):
Your article reminds us that while electronic medical records are a powerful tool, they are not a panacea for lowering health care costs. 
Electronic medical records can guide evidence-based care, prevent unnecessary duplicate testing, enable better and more informed care coordination for patients, and generate quality data in real time to help us measure the efficacy of rendered care to improve health outcomes.
But if used only to facilitate the federal and state reimbursement models that pay for service volume rather than value to the patient and payer, electronic medical records can needlessly increase costs.
Reducing long-term health care costs requires a fundamental redesign of how we pay for care to reward producing the best outcomes for patients in the most cost-effective way possible.
Those of us who have long used electronic medical records appreciate their full potential to transform the delivery of care. We may not be able to prove cost savings, but we do know that they are instrumental for high quality.
With federal and state payment reform, electronic medical records may just be able both to improve outcomes and reduce costs.
ALAN D. AVILES President, New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation New York, March 6, 2012
To the Editor:
The research cited in this article implies that digital health records contribute to greater health care costs by making it easier for physicians to approve and order expensive imaging tests. This is like implying that e-mail contributed to the economic crisis by making it easier for bankers to approve and process all those bad mortgages.
The reality is that technology alone is not the answer to any of our big challenges, but neither is it the cause. This is especially true when it comes to reducing skyrocketing health care costs. The answer lies in using technology to empower consumers to make better lifestyle choices and to become active participants in their health.
Digital health records will be a piece of this solution.
FRANK MOSS Cambridge, Mass., March 6, 2012
To the Editor:
The claim that electronic medical records may not cut health costs appears to be an exception to the rule.
Embedding decision support tools as performance measures and clinical guidelines into the electronic medical record can improve the quality of care and reduce costs.
At Weill Cornell, we are part of an imaging project by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services that provides such tools, developed by the American College of Cardiology and the American College of Radiology, to educate physicians as to the right test for the right patient.
An electronic medical record embedded with appropriate use criteria informs the referring or testing physician whether a test is appropriate, uncertain (more scientific studies are needed) or inappropriate. Patient preference and clinical data may overrule performing tests considered inappropriate.
Commercial payers are also now providing valuable data on the frequency of use and costs of imaging tests, permitting physician quality improvement initiatives that ensure value-added, safe and satisfying care to patients.
MICHAEL J. WOLK New York, March 6, 2012
The writer, a cardiologist, is chairman of managed care at Weill Cornell Medical College and a past president of the American College of Cardiology.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHN HERSEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (95%); MEDICAL RECORDS (93%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (92%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (92%); FILM HISTORY (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MEDICARE (78%); EVIDENCE BASED MEDICINE (78%); EMBEDDED SYSTEMS (77%); QUALITY CONTROL (76%); APPROVALS (75%); MEDICAID (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (72%); CARDIOLOGY (71%); DECISION SUPPORT SYSTEMS (71%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY HEALTH & HOSPITALS CORP (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



468 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: Familiarity With Drugs Helps a Group Speak for Users

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- With a couple of old desks, a beat-up couch and an off-white white board, the office space at 149 Turk Street, in this city's seedy Tenderloin district, is hardly remarkable. A collection of worn detective novels sits on the bookshelf, a couple of American flags hang limply from the wall and a coffee machine constantly percolates in the back kitchen.
It is the tenants who set 149 Turk apart: a ragtag group of current and former drug users who make no apologies about their fondness for illegal narcotics, intravenous experiences and the undeniable rush of getting high.
''If you pass a drug test,'' joked Gary West, a member, ''you're outta here.'' 
But the group, the San Francisco Drug Users' Union, has more on its mind than simply turning on, tuning in and dropping out. The union is one of several groups in the United States and Canada that advocate for the rights of drug users, following the lead of older European drug user organizations. Their goals are often varied, but carry a common refrain: to represent the political interests -- and practical needs -- of chronic drug abusers, a sometimes grim agenda that includes everything from providing clean needles to finding safe places to nod out.
It is a job, members say, that requires firsthand experience to connect with a population that is often wary of law enforcement and social service agencies.
''People don't trust them,'' said Isaac Jackson, who helped found the group and is, with Mr. West, one of two so-called peer organizers. ''So someone being a drug user here is somewhat desirable, because who knows best about drugs than those that use them?''
The group says they are not promoting illegal drug use, just confronting the reality that many people use. Still, such openness can make their work difficult, as can their name, Mr. Jackson said.
''People think it's a joke,'' he said. ''They think of union as a kind of trade union. They don't understand that we're using 'union' in the sense of a consumer union. And we're consumers of drug policies, we're consumers of rehab, we're consumers of drugs.''
Yet with attitudes about drugs and the drug war seemingly evolving in many areas -- including ballot measures this fall to legalize marijuana in Washington State and Colorado -- drug advocacy groups have had some recent successes. In New York, the group Voices of Community Activists and Leaders (or Vocal), a membership group of people with AIDS, drug users and former prisoners, has helped pass a pair of bills involving syringe access and protections for users who call in overdoses to 911.
In San Francisco, the drug union received its first grant in 2009, Mr. Jackson said, and got more help in December 2010 from the city's Hepatitis C Task Force, which advocated for a pilot ''supervised injection facility'' for intravenous drug users because they often contract hepatitis by using dirty needles. No such facility exists in the United States -- a so-called safe injection site in Vancouver, British Columbia, has been considered a success there -- and it has become a central goal of the San Francisco union.
Advocates for such a site say it would not only help prevent new hepatitis and AIDS infections but could also provide a contact point for other health services, including rehabilitation, for addicts who are often loath to seek help.
And in one of the more liberal cities in the nation, the idea of a safe injection site has won some support, including from several mayoral candidates last fall like John Avalos, a leader of the progressive bloc of the city's all-Democratic Board of Supervisors. Laura Thomas, the interim California director for the Drug Policy Alliance, a drug reform organization in New York that helps finance the union, said that San Francisco had a history of ''compassionate response'' to drug users, and that an injection site was not so far-fetched.
''I have a small bet with one of my co-workers as to who is going to get there first, New York or San Francisco,'' Ms. Thomas said. ''Certainly I want San Francisco to be the first.''
Still, such a plan faces political and economic challenges, said Alice Gleghorn, the county alcohol and drug administrator, who oversees the city's drug abuse prevention and treatment programs and opposes the idea of an injection site. ''We do have trouble even in San Francisco finding locations for new substance abuse programs,'' Ms. Gleghorn said. ''Can you imagine what kind of Nimbyism would come about if someone were to try to put a safe injection site somewhere?''
Mayor Ed Lee also opposes the idea, saying that the city has ample tools for attacking the problem of intravenous drug use, including syringe exchanges, said Christine Falvey, a spokeswoman for the mayor.
Mr. Jackson, 56, admits to using methamphetamine -- his drug of choice, one he said was ''love at first sight'' -- despite a personal history that would probably argue against it.
Tall and gangly, with a drifting eye, Mr. Jackson speaks with a mumble and a dry sense of humor about losing most of the perks of a normal life -- car, career, apartment -- to meth, something he feels might have been avoided had a group like his been around at the time.
''If there was more information out there, I could have known how to stay safe,'' Mr. Jackson said.
The group, whose activities never include asking anyone to stop doing drugs, holds regular meetings at the Turk Street space, in an area where drug sales are common. People wander in and out, though Mr. Jackson and Mr. West are constant presences.
Mr. West, 46, says he came to San Francisco two years ago from his home in Ishpeming, Mich., in the state's Upper Peninsula, and was attracted initially to the union by the promise of free pizza. ''It was an inside joke for me at the time,'' he said. ''My dad would be so proud of me: 'I'm a drug user, but I finally joined a union!' ''
But he found himself agreeing with much of what Mr. Jackson was talking about. ''And I need something to fill in my time as well,'' Mr. West said. ''Living on the street you get awful bored.''
He is still homeless -- ''I have a little camp in a secret locale'' -- but now draws a small salary from the union, as does Mr. Jackson. It is not much, the men say, but enough to keep them out of soup kitchens.
But both men say their experiences with a range of drugs are indispensible in helping their members.
''It helps to know what they are doing and what they're going through while they're high,'' Mr. West said. ''If they are tweaking, we got to figure out some way of how to tie them down. If they're doing heroin or something like that, that's easy, just turn on the TV, and that'll keep them occupied.''
At a meeting in late February devoted to a discussion of current events, one such member had nodded out in a chair. But still the conversation continued, touching on the presidential campaign -- ''Ron Paul would be good for us, for druggies,'' quipped Mr. Jackson -- and plans for an April exhibit at the Turk Street space outlining potential plans for the injection site.
And while those plans may be far from fruition, Mr. Jackson says that he is as committed to it as he is to his belief that drug users are people, too.
''I think people feel that drug users are powerless or are impossible to work with,'' he said. ''That we can't get it together. But I don't think that's true.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Johnny Lorenz, center, leads a support group for the Drug Users' Union in San Francisco. Isaac Jackson, left, helped found the organization, which he described as a consumers' union. (A12)
 From left, Isaac Jackson, Gary West and Lydia Blumberg, the former program coordinator, held a staff meeting at the union. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAMIN RAHIMIAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); DRUG POLICY (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); DECRIMINALIZATION (75%); CANNABIS (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (75%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (71%); AIDS & HIV (71%); ANTIVIRALS (70%); DRUG TESTING (70%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (70%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); BALLOTS (66%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



469 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Tight Primaries Suggest Less-Predictable South

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON; Trip Gabriel contributed reporting from Gulfport, Miss.

 BODY:
HUNTSVILLE, Ala. -- They stood beneath a Saturn V rocket, baby-carrying mothers, cross-armed men, workers in coveralls and financial planners, listening as Rick Santorum told them who they were and why they mattered.
''Red Alabama,'' he said to the crowd on Thursday at the U.S. Space and Rocket Center here in Huntsville. ''Conservative Alabama. The heart of conservatism.''
Along with his rivals Newt Gingrich and Mitt Romney, Mr. Santorum is pressing hard here and in Mississippi before a vote on Tuesday that could narrow the field in the Republican nominating contest or help prolong it into the coming weeks and months. But a victory is about more than just delegates -- it will give the winner a claim on the Deep South, or as Mr. Santorum described it, the heart of conservatism.
But the Deep South base is not as predictable as it once was. National polling companies have found a volatile contest in Alabama and Mississippi, a near toss-up among the three leading candidates. And indeed the primaries represent a rather neat slicing of the Southern electorate at the current moment. 
''The base is split all over the place on this,'' said Mike Ball, a Republican state legislator in Alabama.
Is this fertile ground for Mr. Santorum, whose commanding victory in Tennessee last week was largely attributable to evangelical Christian voters? Or are Alabama and Mississippi voters more like those in South Carolina, who relished Mr. Gingrich's fire-breathing style?
Or will voters here, particularly evangelicals, do what may have been unthinkable just years ago and support a Mormon from a Northeastern state who sells his corporatist approach to fixing the economy and claims he is the most electable? Mr. Romney's promising poll numbers should not come as a shock in the South of today, Mr. Ball said.
''Southern politics has really shifted,'' he said, pointing out the electoral success of Republican governors like Bobby Jindal of Louisiana, who ran on a platform of technocratic competence, and Bill Haslam of Tennessee, a moderate.
Evidence of that shift can be seen in a matter of a few blocks.
In a booth at Jean's Restaurant in Meridian, Miss., Burnie Berrey, a 50-year-old elevator service technician, had some choice words for the Obama administration. Like many here, he is essentially a one-issue voter: the man who can beat President Obama is the man for him, even if that means eventually voting for Mr. Romney. The antipathy toward the current administration among Republican voters, described here in terms ranging from the vulgar to the apocalyptic, can hardly be exaggerated.
But he is hardly more complimentary of Mr. Romney.
''He's just Obama all over again,'' Mr. Berrey said. ''I would prefer Newt get it. He knows how the government runs, and he's damn smarter than the rest of them.''
Nobody taps into the old fighting strain of Southern politics like Mr. Gingrich, who styles himself as an intellectual brawler who can outsmart the know-it-alls in Washington. If the primary had been held a month ago, Mr. Gingrich would probably have won in a walk, and even those who are leaning away from supporting him are not quite ready to let go completely.
''In the back of your mind you know what's coming,'' said Chandler Castle, a 32-year-old from Meridian who works in construction. ''But,'' he added wistfully, as if speaking of an aging prize fighter, ''I just want to see Newt and Obama in a debate.''
Mr. Castle, waiting two blocks away for what would be a trademark Gingrich tub-thumping speech on Friday, said the people in his circles were mostly undecided, though nobody liked Mr. Romney. Mr. Castle said that the objection was not Mr. Romney's religion -- ''as time goes by that's less and less important, except for some parts of the South,'' he said -- but just a sense that he could not be trusted as a conservative standard-bearer.
Mr. Romney has won endorsements from the governor of Mississippi and a raft of senior lawmakers in Alabama, where polls show him running competitively. This surprised some here, who said they knew very few people who were voting for him.
But even skeptics acknowledge that it may come down to what circles they travel in. Will Simmons, a 38-year-old lawyer who was at the Gingrich rally in Mississippi with Mr. Castle, acknowledged that Mr. Romney was not exactly exciting. But, he said, ''Romney is a guy that makes things happen,'' echoing the most common sentiment expressed by Romney supporters, who, like Mr. Simmons, tend to be professionals.
While all of the candidates appeal, to a degree, to some part of the Southern electorate, few voters find any of them just right. Southerners speak with fondness of past candidates who were more obvious fits for the region, like Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor who won five Southern states in the 2008 primaries before dropping out, or Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi, who chose not to run for president last spring.
A common wish is for some combination of the three current frontrunners, a candidate described by one caller to an Alabama talk radio show as having Mr. Romney's looks, Mr. Gingrich's brains and Mr. Santorum's moral fiber.
''Newt, he's consistent with his beliefs until he changes his mind,'' said Cleveland Poole, the head of the Republican Party in Butler County, Ala. ''Santorum seems to be more and more at ease in getting his message out, but his problem is he's more likable than he is presidential.''
Mr. Poole said he knew some Romney supporters, but they were all in the Republican establishment. ''Everybody that I talk to says that they flip-flop back and forth every day,'' he said.
Tuesday's primaries have taken on an outsize significance in the long nominating contest, with Mr. Gingrich saying that he needs to win both states, fueling speculation that a defeat here may push him out of the race. For Mr. Santorum, victory here could achieve his goal of turning the battle into a two-man contest between him and Mr. Romney.
Mr. Santorum and Mr. Gingrich campaigned in Mississippi on Sunday, with Mr. Santorum using a campaign appearance in Gulfport to attack what he portrayed as Mr. Romney's moderate stances on fiscal issues and climate change.
In Alabama, many voters, like Mr. Ball, consider Mr. Santorum the favorite, despite frequently expressed concerns about his ability to win in the fall. Some supporters, like Chris Crutchfield, a 30-year-old from Huntsville who sells firefighting equipment, are frustrated by the notion that Mr. Santorum's backers are driven only by social issues.
''He's got a great economic plan,'' Mr. Crutchfield said, though he acknowledged that as an evangelical he was left uneasy by Mr. Romney's religion as well as Mr. Gingrich's marital history.
At his rally at the space center, where children wearing ''I Support the Fair Tax'' stickers gazed at the space hardware, Mr. Santorum drew cheers when he praised home-schooling, but also when he talked of the evils of overregulation.
One man spoke approvingly of Mr. Santorum's emphasis on family values, mainly because he thought it could attract Hispanic voters in the general election.
For all the talk about conservative leadership, electability is still foremost on many Southern voters' minds. Mr. Castle said even after the Gingrich speech in Meridian that he was still looking for an alternative to Mr. Romney. However, he said, ''It's who you want and who you settle for.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rick Santorum greeted the staff behind the counter of the Sweet Peppers Deli in Tupelo, Miss. (A1)
 Children snapped photographs of Rick Santorum on Sunday at the Sweet Peppers Deli. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEN (89%); RELIGION (86%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); POLITICS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); GOVERNORS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (64%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (91%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (76%); NEWT GINGRICH (76%); BOBBY JINDAL (54%); BILL HASLAM (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (90%); MERIDIAN, MS, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (97%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



470 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: In Health Act, Roberts Given Signature Case

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. takes his usual center seat on the Supreme Court bench on March 26, he will begin presiding over an extraordinary three days of arguments that will determine the fate of President Obama's sweeping health care law.
The decision in the case, expected by June, will have practical consequences for tens of millions of Americans without health insurance, and it may affect Mr. Obama's re-election chances.
It will also shape, if not define, the chief justice's legacy.
Chief Justice Roberts is just 57, and he will probably lead the Supreme Court for an additional two decades or more. But clashes like the one over the health care law come around only a few times in a century, and he may well complete his service without encountering another case posing such fundamental questions about the structure of American government. 
The case will require the chief justice to choose between two competing instincts.
On the one hand, he views himself as a steward of the court's prestige and authority, and he has called for incremental decisions from large majorities rather than broad but sharply divided rulings. ''As chief justice, Roberts has been extremely careful with the institutional reputation of the court,'' said Barry Friedman, a law professor at New York University who has filed a brief urging the court to uphold the law.
The court has not rejected legislation as ambitious as the health care law since the 1930s. There is, moreover, only one plausible way for the justices to strike down the law, scholars who study the court say: by a 5-to-4 vote divided along ideological lines.
All of that might augur a cautious approach.
At the same time, Chief Justice Roberts has embraced an array of assertive judicial projects that have interpreted the Constitution in ways that have fundamentally reshaped American law. The court he has led since 2005 has cut back on campaign spending limits, gun control laws, procedural protections for criminal defendants and the government's ability to take account of race in decisions about employment and education.
Chief Justice Roberts has not exhibited the same intense focus on the question of federal power that is at the heart of the health care case, and he has offered only passing hints about his thinking on the subject. He did surprise some in 2010 by signing, along with the court's four more liberal members, Justice Stephen G. Breyer's majority opinion affirming Congressional power to authorize the continued civil confinement of sex offenders after they have served their criminal sentences.
That ruling led some observers to say that Chief Justice Roberts is not as interested in exploring the limits of federal power as were Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, who died in 2005, and Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, who retired in 2006.
''Federalism has less salience with this court than it did with the Rehnquist court,'' Sri Srinivasan, then a lawyer in private practice, said at a Chamber of Commerce briefing in 2010. Mr. Srinivasan is now principal deputy solicitor general.
Predicting the outcome of the health care case is hard, because it is both surpassingly important and quite idiosyncratic.
The law, Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, sets out to eliminate the United States' status as the only rich country without almost universal health care. Mr. Obama's aides compare its significance to that of Medicare or Social Security, while Republican leaders say it helps move the country dangerously close to European-style big government.
The court that will hear the health care case is in some ways as extraordinary as the case itself.
For the first time since at least 1953, when Chief Justice Earl Warren joined the court, the justices are divided along not only ideological but also partisan lines: its five more conservative members were all appointed by Republican presidents and its four more liberal members by Democrats.
Add to that the conventional wisdom about which votes in the health care case are fixed in concrete: the four justices appointed by Democrats are thought certain to vote to uphold the law, and Justice Clarence Thomas, appointed by the elder George Bush, is believed to be a sure vote to strike it down.
The consensus among scholars and Supreme Court practitioners is that Chief Justice Roberts is unlikely to add the fifth vote to those of the four justices in the court's liberal wing to uphold the law. But he is said to be quite likely to provide a sixth vote should one of the other more conservative justices decide to join the court's four more liberal members.
Either way, then, the chief justice is likely to be in the majority. Indeed, in the last two terms Chief Justice Roberts has been in the majority at least 90 percent of the time, a distinction he shares with only Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, the court's swing justice.
Should a closely divided court strike down the health care law, the decision will call to mind Bush v. Gore in 2000 and Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission in 2010. They were 5-to-4 rulings decided along ideological lines, but there were Republican appointees on both sides.
Chief Justice Roberts was not on the court when Bush v. Gore was decided (though he played a minor role in assisting George W. Bush's legal team as a lawyer in private practice). Citizens United is another matter: it is easily the most divisive decision issued by the Roberts court and so one from which he may have drawn lessons.
''In all the years he has been on the court, there had been only one firestorm, and that was Citizens United,'' Professor Friedman said. ''And I don't think he anticipated that reaction.''
The reaction to the ruling on the health care law, which will probably land just as the presidential campaign enters its final stretch, will probably be even greater. And unlike Citizens United, which overturned part of a law that predated Mr. Obama's presidency, the health care law is his signature domestic accomplishment.
The six hours the court will devote to arguments is a testament to the case's importance. The last time the court heard longer arguments in a politically charged case was in 1966, over the Voting Rights Act, a crowning achievement of the civil rights movement.
And the last time the Supreme Court ruled that a major piece of economic legislation was beyond Congressional power to regulate commerce was in 1936, when the court struck down minimum-wage and maximum-hour requirements in the coal industry.
James F. Simon, a law professor at New York Law School, said the battle over the health care case was reminiscent of the showdown between the Supreme Court and President Franklin D. Roosevelt over the New Deal. Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes, who led the court from 1930 to 1941, had much in common with Chief Justice Roberts, said Professor Simon, the author of a new book, ''FDR and Chief Justice Hughes.''
''He was, like Roberts, a brilliant lawyer and clearly had command of the cases and the calendar,'' Professor Simon said. ''He was trying to hold the court together, and he was trying to show it was impartial.''
But there are differences, too. ''Hughes came out of the progressive wing of the Republican Party,'' Professor Simon said, noting that Chief Justice Hughes voted to uphold major pieces of New Deal legislation. ''Roberts, on the other hand, comes out of the conservative wing of the Republican Party.''
Chief Justice Roberts is not an entirely blank slate when it comes to the scope of the Constitution's commerce clause. He signaled sensitivity to its limits in his very first judicial opinion, not long after he joined the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in 2003. In it, he unsuccessfully urged the court to reconsider a decision allowing Congress to protect endangered species under the clause. The case concerned, he said, ''a hapless toad that, for reasons of its own, lives its entire life in California.''
He also addressed the commerce clause at his confirmation hearing in 2005. ''It is a broad grant of power,'' he said of the clause. ''This body,'' he added, referring to Congress, ''has the authority to determine when issues affecting interstate commerce merit legislative response at the federal level.''
Opponents of the health care law say a decision sustaining it would empower Congress to pass laws concerning essentially every aspect of American life in the name of regulating commerce. The law's supporters say a decision in their favor would leave in place significant limits; for example, Congress may act only to address national problems that are economic in nature. They add that political considerations are a further constraint.
After the justices hear arguments, they will gather for a private conference and cast tentative votes. Then Chief Justice Roberts will, if he is in the majority, exercise one of the prerogatives of his position: he will choose who will write the majority opinion.
In major cases, chief justices have not hesitated to choose themselves. Whichever way the health care case comes out, the task of explaining the ruling to the American public is likely to fall to Chief Justice Roberts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and the rest of the Supreme Court are scheduled to start hearing arguments on March 26. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE LAW (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (85%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); SENTENCING (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); LIBERALISM (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (92%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); STEPHEN BREYER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



471 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: At Lunch, Bloomberg And Obama Discuss Future

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS and MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
They traded thoughts about education, ruminated on the state of immigration and discussed the federal deficit.
But most intriguingly, they talked about the future. Over a long private lunch at the White House, President Obama posed a question to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg: what are you interested in doing next?
Mr. Bloomberg's precise response is unknown. But their meeting a few weeks ago, confirmed by aides to both leaders and previously undisclosed, was potentially significant for both men, as Mr. Obama seeks support for his presidential campaign and Mr. Bloomberg ponders his post-mayoral career. 
Mr. Obama, facing a bruising re-election fight, is eager to attract the kind of centrist, independent voters drawn to Mr. Bloomberg's brand of politics.
Mr. Bloomberg, confronting the end of his career in elected office, is grappling with how to exert the kind of influence over public discourse that he has had as mayor of the nation's largest city.
The lunch invitation is striking because Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Obama are thought not to be particularly close -- nor to have an especially warm relationship. But the White House seems intent on courting Mr. Bloomberg.
Jay Carney, the White House spokesman, said the lunch was part of a continuing dialogue that the president very much valued. Over the last two years, Mr. Obama has invited Mr. Bloomberg to play golf on Martha's Vineyard and has dispatched Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to Gracie Mansion to seek the mayor's views on the economy.
''They speak from time to time,'' Mr. Carney said. ''The president always enjoys an exchange of ideas and insights with Mayor Bloomberg and is appreciative of the mayor's leadership on immigration, the economy and education, as well as his commitment to New York City.''
Mr. Carney said the election did not come up during the lunch, which took place in February and did not appear on either official's public schedule.
A spokesman for the mayor, Stu Loeser, offered a similar assessment, saying, ''It's always an honor to be invited to the White House, and the mayor appreciated the opportunity to discuss New York's and the nation's priorities with President Obama.''
Their relationship has had rough spots. In 2009, Mr. Obama endorsed former Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., Mr. Bloomberg's Democratic challenger, in the mayor's race, albeit tepidly.
More recently, the mayor has complained that American business leaders have felt vilified by Washington since Mr. Obama took office. He has reportedly mocked the president's self-assuredness, telling Rupert Murdoch that Mr. Obama was the most ''arrogant'' man he had ever met, according to Mr. Murdoch.
Further complicating matters, Mr. Bloomberg's longtime girlfriend, Diana L. Taylor, the former state banking commissioner, has taken her own recent swipes at the president. She complained in a September magazine interview that despite the promise of the Obama administration, ''that hopey-changey stuff -- it hasn't worked very well.''
This year, Mr. Bloomberg has not endorsed a presidential candidate, although aides said he had not ruled out doing so. The value of his endorsement is uncertain -- because New York is viewed with skepticism among parts of the electorate, some say it is unlikely that the mayor's endorsement would sway many voters in the battleground states where the election could turn.
But Mr. Obama's leading Republican rival, Mitt Romney, has sought to depict the president as an economic naif and an enemy of business, making Mr. Bloomberg, one of the nation's wealthiest entrepreneurs, a potentially potent White House ally.
Mr. Bloomberg, a political independent, is also a prolific campaign donor whose support has extended across the country, to both Democrats and Republicans.
Mr. Bloomberg's third term as mayor ends at the close of 2013, and speculation about his political intentions has been a longstanding parlor game in New York and Washington. He has often been talked about as a candidate for higher office, including the presidency, or as a potential nominee for a high-level national appointment. But the possibility of Mr. Bloomberg's becoming a member of the Obama administration did not come up during the lunch, according to people close to the mayor and the president.
The mayor, who has not had a boss in decades, stressed that he had little interest in joining the Obama cabinet. ''I am not an adviser,'' he told The New York Times in 2010, adding, ''You know, I am a doer.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael R. Bloomberg 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); IMMIGRATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%); JOE BIDEN (57%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



472 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include retail sales for February and business inventories for January (Tuesday); import prices for February and the current account deficit for the fourth quarter (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims, the Producer Price Index for February and the Philadelphia Fed index for March (Thursday); and the Consumer Price Index for February, industrial production for February and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for March (Friday). 
IN THE UNITED STATES On Tuesday, the Federal Open Market Committee is to meet and issue a statement; the Senate Judiciary Committee is to hold a hearing about the Freedom of Information Act; and the Walt Disney Company annual meeting is set in Kansas City, Mo.
On Wednesday, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, is to speak at the national convention of the Independent Community Bankers of America in Nashville; a House Financial Services subcommittee is to hold a field hearing in San Antonio about challenges facing community financial institutions in Texas; and a Senate Banking subcommittee is to hold a hearing about the prepaid card market.
On Thursday, the Senate Finance Committee is to hold a hearing about the implications of Russia's membership in the World Trade Organization.
OVERSEAS On Monday, euro zone finance ministers are to meet in Brussels to discuss Greece's bond swap and progress toward meeting requirements of its bailout; and the World Trade Organization's appellate body is expected to rule on an appeal of a ruling that Boeing received illegal subsidies from the United States.
On Tuesday, European Union finance ministers are to meet in Brussels to discuss a proposed financial transaction tax and other issues; Prime Minister Mario Monti of Italy is to meet in Rome with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to discuss the European debt crisis; and the Bank of Japan is to hold a policy committee meeting.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); BAILOUTS (79%); EURO ZONE (79%); DEBT CRISIS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); COMMUNITY BANKS (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); RETAIL SALES (73%); PREPAID CARDS (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); BOND MARKETS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); MONETARY UNIONS (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (70%); INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (69%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (58%); BOEING CO (54%); BANK OF JAPAN (53%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (70%); BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (70%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (70%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (70%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (76%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (67%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%); GREECE (77%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); ITALY (73%); BELGIUM (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



473 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: As Fed Officials Prepare to Meet, They Await Clearer Economic Signals

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The scheduled meeting Tuesday of the Federal Reserve's policy-making committee is unlikely to resolve the foremost question confronting the central bank: What happens next?
The Fed plans to complete by the end of June its current campaign to suppress long-term interest rates, keeping borrowing costs low for businesses and consumers. Some Fed officials see no reason for new measures, as the economy appears to be gaining strength. Others are eager for a new campaign, arguing that the recovery remains weak. But public remarks by Fed officials suggest a decision will not come before the committee's next meeting in April.
First, there is a mystery to resolve: The Fed is not sure how fast the economy is growing. Some of the main measures, which produce a murky picture in the best of times, are now telling divergent stories. In particular, people do not appear to be buying enough goods and services to sustain the rising pace of job creation. 
The Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, testified before Congress last month that job growth would probably slow because the other measures tended to be more accurate. But he added that the reverse also could be true. And the Fed would like to know the answer before it decides whether it should promise new efforts to improve growth.
''In light of the somewhat different signals received recently from the labor market than from indicators of final demand and production, however,'' Mr. Bernanke said, ''it will be especially important to evaluate incoming information to assess the underlying pace of economic recovery.''
The significance of the pending decision is easy to overstate. The Fed is already engaged in an immense campaign to improve growth, which it has said it plans to continue for the next three years. The central bank is holding short-term interest rates near zero, and it has amassed a $2.5 trillion portfolio of Treasury securities and mortgage-backed securities to pull down long-term rates. Any new program probably would amount to only a modest increase in the scale of the overall effort.
While many members of the policy-making board, the Federal Open Market Committee, remain ambivalent about doing more, Mr. Bernanke and others on the committee have made clear they are not giving serious thought to doing less.
''I am comfortable with the current stance of monetary policy,'' Sandra Pianalto, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, said earlier this month. ''Doing more at this time could create too much inflation risk, and doing less could risk weakening an already slow expansion and causing an unwelcome disinflation.''
The current campaign to reduce borrowing costs, nicknamed Operation Twist, was begun in September. The Fed is buying $400 billion in long-term Treasury securities, increasing competition and in that way forcing other investors to accept lower interest rates. The Fed is also selling the same volume of short-term securities so that the purchases do not increase the size of its balance sheet.
The program extends the Fed's earlier attacks on long-term rates through the purchase of more than $2 trillion in long-term Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities.
The Fed paused after each of the first two rounds of purchases, only to watch the economy falter. Mr. Bernanke has said that he is again inclined to pause and wait for evidence that the recovery is losing momentum. Many analysts have accordingly concluded a new round of purchases is unlikely.
But Vincent Reinhart, an economist at Morgan Stanley who served as the Fed's chief monetary policy official during the early years of Mr. Bernanke's tenure, said he still believed there was a 75 percent chance that the Fed would act by June.
In a note to clients last week, Mr. Reinhart said the recovery remained weak, inflation remained under control and the public remarks of Fed officials suggested to his practiced ear that they intended to act. And waiting any longer than June, he said, would inject the Fed into the presidential campaign.
''Economic slack persists and inflation is running below the Fed goal in its medium-term projection,'' Mr. Reinhart wrote. ''The dual shortfall from its mandate provides both justification and political cover for action.''
One possibility advocated by some committee members is a tailored effort to aid the housing market through increased purchases of mortgage securities.
Such a program would renew the concerns of critics, including some Fed officials and many Republican politicians, that its efforts to spur growth will impede its ability to respond with necessary speed and force when the pace of inflation begins to rise. Some argue that this could happen soon.
The Fed finances its purchases by creating money, but it has sought to address concerns that this could spur inflation by preventing the money from circulating. For the first two rounds of purchases, it paid the banks that sold securities to keep the money that they were paid on deposit with the Fed. During the current campaign, because it is buying some securities and selling others, the Fed is taking in exactly as much money as it is pumping out.
In any new campaign, the Fed also may consider a variant on those strategies, borrowing as much money as it spends by taking short-term loans called reverse repurchase agreements -- in effect, a different way of paying banks to keep the money off the streets. The Wall Street Journal first reported this possibility.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, is waiting to see if the central bank needs new efforts to improve growth. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN MCNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (72%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (61%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (61%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (61%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



474 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE NEW ISLAMISTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2489 words

HEADLINE: Keeper of Islamic Flame Rises As Egypt's New Decisive Voice

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Mayy El Sheikh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
CAIRO -- For more than a dozen years, Khairat el-Shater guided his family of 10 children, his sprawling business empire and Egypt's largest Islamist movement, the Muslim Brotherhood, all from a prison cell.
Each week, he held court behind prison walls as young Muslim Brothers delivered to him dossiers about the organization that sometimes were as long as 200 pages. His corporate employees paid regular visits for strategic advice about his investments in software, textile, bus manufacturing and furniture companies and other enterprises. And before consenting to the marriages of his eight daughters, he met in prison with each of their suitors. Some of the grooms were prisoners with him, others made the pilgrimage, and five said their vows in his presence, behind bars.
Now Mr. Shater, 62, commands far wider influence.
One year after the overthrow of Hosni Mubarak brought Mr. Shater freedom, he has emerged as the most decisive voice in the leadership of the Brotherhood, the 83-year-old fountainhead of political Islam, at the moment when it has established itself as the dominant power in Egyptian politics. 
With firm control of Egypt's Parliament, the Brotherhood's political arm is holding talks to form the next cabinet while Mr. Shater is grooming about 500 future officials to form a government-in-waiting. As the group's chief policy architect, Mr. Shater is overseeing the blueprint for the new Egypt, negotiating with its current military rulers over their future role, shaping its relations with Israel and a domestic Christian minority, and devising the economic policies the Brotherhood hopes will revive Egypt's moribund economy.
With power he could only dream of when he padded around Mr. Mubarak's prisons in a white track suit, Mr. Shater meets foreign ambassadors, the executives of multinational corporations and Wall Street firms, and a parade of United States senators and other officials to explain the Brotherhood's vision. To the Brotherhood, he tells them, Islam requires democracy, free markets and tolerance of religious minorities.
But he also says that recent elections have proved that Egyptians demand an explicitly Islamic state. And he is guiding its creation from a position that his critics say may undercut his avowed commitment to open democracy: he sits atop a secretive and hierarchical organization, shaped by decades of working underground, that still asks its members -- including those in Parliament -- to swear obedience to the directions of its leaders, whether in the group's religious, charitable or political work.
''The Islamic reference point regulates life in its entirety, politically, economically and socially; we don't have this separation'' between religion and government, Mr. Shater said in a lengthy interview. ''The Muslim Brotherhood is a value-based organization that expresses itself using different political, economic, sportive, health-related and social means. You can't take one part from one place and another part from another -- this isn't how it's done.''
A former leftist and a millionaire businessman who is also the Brotherhood's chief financier, Mr. Shater was known for years as the group's most important internal advocate for moderation and modernization.
In prison, he talked radical Islamist inmates into renouncing violence. He helped chart the Brotherhood's first steps into electoral politics, initially in Egypt's professional associations of doctors, lawyers, engineers and the like. Then he was at the forefront of its more transformative drive to win seats in the Mubarak-dominated Parliament; the experience did more than anything to moderate the group as it forged coalitions and courted the mainstream. And over the past decade he also oversaw its stepped-up outreach to the West through Web sites in Arabic and English.
''No need to be afraid of us'' declared the headline of a 2005 article he wrote from behind bars for the British newspaper The Guardian. ''The Brotherhood,'' he wrote, ''believes democratic reforms could trigger a renaissance in Egypt.''
Moving Toward a New Model
But in the new context of Egypt's fledgling democracy, his critics -- including both liberals and Islamists -- charge that he is using the Brotherhood's all-encompassing understanding of Islam as a tool for political power. Against dissidents arguing that in a free society the Brotherhood should allow its members to decide for themselves how to apply Islam to politics, Mr. Shater has enforced the group's traditional view of itself as the guardian of a single, take-it-or-leave-it vision.
He has defended the Brotherhood's traditional view of itself as a society within society that employs politics as just one tool, along with preaching and charity, to move society toward an Islamic model. He has led an internal crackdown on younger members who sought to change its insular and hierarchical culture. And he has pushed for the expulsion of Brotherhood members who disagree with the political decisions made by its ruling Guidance Council -- including a popular former Brotherhood leader, Abdel Moneim Aboul Fotouh, who is now running for president. At the core of his campaign is a call for a more pluralistic understanding of Islamist politics.
Mr. Shater, however, says that his critics misunderstand Islam, the Brotherhood and democracy. The Islamist landslide in parliamentary elections -- the Brotherhood's party or more conservative Islamists won 70 percent of the vote -- is an indisputable democratic mandate for an explicitly Islamic government, he said recently in a rare television interview.
''The people are insistent,'' Mr. Shater said. ''All institutions should revise their cultures, their training programs and the way they build their individuals in the light of this real popular choice.''
How to fulfill that mandate, though, is the overarching question of the Arab Spring. With Islamists approaching power in Tunisia, Egypt, Libya and Morocco, and perhaps someday in Syria, all face a similar challenge: how they reconcile their historic religious missions with more recent commitments to pluralistic democracy.
Some are seeking a new way. Convinced that fallible politicians will never know the definitive way to apply divine law to public life, Islamists in Turkey and Tunisia and in breakaway parties here have sought to extricate governing from religious interpretation -- a view some call post-Islamist.
But Egypt's Brotherhood, the original Islamist movement at the center of the Arab world, has never flinched from demanding an Islamic government and opposing secular rule. ''Egypt is the first Sunni Islamist experiment in democracy,'' said Shadi Hamid, the director of research for the Brookings Doha Center, which is based in Qatar.
Mr. Shater -- whose title is deputy to the Brotherhood's top leader, known as the supreme guide -- is acknowledged as the most important strategist and clearest exponent of the group's answer to that test. In an interview, he explained that the Brotherhood believed that Islam's concept of ''shura,'' or consultation, meant representative democracy. He said the group supported the right of those with a more secular vision to compete in free and fair elections. If differences arose over how to apply Islamic teachings to public life, then society should rely on democratic methods to settle any disputes.
But the parameters of policy choices, he argued, should be laid out by experts drawing not only on economics, political science and other disciplines, but also on a deep knowledge of Islam. ''It is better, with time, to have someone who knows both subjects,'' he said.
In practice, liberals say, the Brotherhood's approach has already made its ruling Guidance Council -- where Mr. Shater is the dominant voice -- the de facto overseer of Egypt's next government. ''Egypt is now being run from the Brotherhood's Guidance Council,'' Mohamed Abu Hamed, an outspoken liberal lawmaker, said in an interview, describing events at a recent party at the Indian Embassy to illustrate his point.
Politicians, diplomats and businessmen all rushed past the elected lawmakers and straight for Mr. Shater, Mr. Abu Hamed said, just as they once did for Mr. Mubarak's son and heir apparent, Gamal.
''This tells you where power lies,'' Mr. Abu Hamed said.
A World of Brothers
Like many who clung to the Brotherhood through years of persecution, Mr. Shater inhabits a world defined by its fellowship. He employs mostly Muslim Brothers, his daughters married Muslim Brothers and a brother-in-law, Mahmoud Ghozlan, is the group's official spokesman.
Mr. Shater is a traditionalist but also a pragmatist, his friends and critics say. He sits on the board of an Islamist study group so conservative that it opposes almost all musical entertainment. It advocates a segregation of the sexes so strict that it advises women not to talk on the telephone with men outside their immediate families. One of its leaders, Sheik Shaaban Darwish, praised Mr. Shater as ''a man of very high morality.''
But Mr. Shater's advisers say he sits on the board without endorsing its views. They say he is there to maintain a dialogue with the rival faction of ultraconservative Islamists, known as Salafis, who control nearly a quarter of Parliament.
The son of a merchant in the town of Mansoura, Mr. Shater grew up an avid socialist under President Gamal Abdel Nasser, and he read widely in the works of Western mid-century Marxists. But after Nasser's disastrous 1967 war with Israel, Mr. Shater joined the student protest movement. At 18, he was jailed for four months, expelled from college and conscripted early into military service.
He was drawn to the Muslim Brotherhood, he said, because of its comprehensiveness. ''It talks about building the individual, building the family, building the society, building the state,'' he said. ''It talks about the economy, it talks about sociology, it talks about culture.''
He also invested in his own businesses, and with another prominent Brotherhood businessman, Hassan Malek, founded one of Egypt's first software companies, Salsabeel, which signed the Egyptian military as one of its clients.
Then, in 1995, as Mr. Shater's influence in the Brotherhood was growing, the government confiscated the company after a military trial. Mr. Shater was sentenced to one of four stints in prison under Mr. Mubarak. He served a total of 12 years, longer than any other Brotherhood leader. His central role in the group's financial affairs, Brotherhood leaders say, made him a special target and now remains a source of his clout.
Disappointed Dissenters
After Mr. Shater's release last March, though, many young Brotherhood members and reformers say they were disappointed by the man who emerged. His talk of democracy and tolerance for Egypt did not extend to reforming the Brotherhood, they complained. ''We were deceived,'' said Mohamed el-Gibba, 27, a former member.
In the context of a more open and democratic Egypt, some in the Brotherhood argued that the group should let its members enter politics on their own while focusing on its missionary work, in preaching and charity. In addition to Mr. Aboul Fotouh, the presidential candidate, a procession of reformers sought to run for office on post-Islamist platforms, including some of the young members who, against their elders' advice, helped kick off the uprising against Mr. Mubarak.
But instead, Mr. Shater helped guide the Brotherhood's leadership into creating a new political party -- the Freedom and Justice Party -- financed and controlled by the Brotherhood itself. Brotherhood members are barred from publicly contesting against the party or its positions.
The only reason the Brotherhood had set up an ostensibly independent party, Mr. Shater said in the interview, was because Egyptian law required it. Otherwise, he said, they would be ''one thing.''
''You have one of two choices,'' Mr. Shater said he told a group of dissenting Brotherhood youth. ''Either you stay in the Muslim Brotherhood and the Muslim Brotherhood's party, or if you insist on another party, then you'll be the ones leaving us.''
''This is normal,'' he said, ''because the party is an expression of a political vision. If you have the same vision, you will join this party. You can't adopt a different vision from the party that represents us, that represents the vision of the group.''
Some former members say this arrangement puts the democratic Parliament under the effective control of the undemocratic Brotherhood. Abdulrahman Ayyash, 22, a former Brotherhood member who worked closely with Mr. Shater before leaving over the issue, said: ''Is it O.K. that the Freedom and Justice Party takes direction from the Guidance Council of the Muslim Brotherhood? No, it is a majority party now, not the Muslim Brotherhood party.'' But the Brotherhood leaders, Mr. Ayyash said, ''are building all their authority on the policy of blind obedience.''
The dissidents say that Mr. Shater has enforced compliance with even internally controversial positions. He is overseeing revisions of the Brotherhood's internal teaching materials to reflect a more tolerant stance toward Israel as the group's political arm comes to terms with the Camp David treaty. People who work with him say that he has led talks to consider offering criminal immunity or limited scrutiny of the defense budget as trade-offs to ease the ruling generals out of power. He has also promoted an understanding of Islam that includes business-friendly free-market economics. ''They tightened the screws on anyone who had different ideas about economics,'' said Mohamed Habib, a former deputy Supreme Guide of the Brotherhood who also recently quit the group over its intolerance of internal political dissent.
''It is a group for Muslims, not 'the' group for Muslims,'' Mr. Habib complained.
But for now, American officials say they value Mr. Shater's cool effectiveness. ''He is the behind-the-scenes guy,'' said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who recently met with Mr. Shater along with a group of mostly Republican lawmakers. ''Very impressive.''
Mr. Shater assured them of the group's commitments to free-market capitalism, to equality for Egypt's Christian minority and to freedom of association for nonprofit groups, Mr. Graham said. When the senators asked him to publicly clarify the last point in order to help resolve the criminal charges against some nonprofit organizations backed by the United States, the Brotherhood's party released a statement a few hours later, Mr. Graham said, earning the senators' gratitude.
Mr. Graham said he noticed that Mr. Shater seemed to wield considerable power without holding any public office, and that he saw some American parallels. ''I think they call that Chicago,'' the senator said.
The New Islamists: Articles in this series explore the rise of political Islam in the Middle East, as Islamic movements struggle to remake the Arab world.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SOCIAL SERVICE: The Muslim Brotherhood operates many enterprises intended to assist Egyptians in need, including a hospital in Cairo, above.
 ARCHITECT: Khairat el-Shater, a leader of the Muslim Brotherhood and its chief financier, is overseeing the transformation of Egypt. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MOISES SAMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); PRISONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MARRIAGE (78%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); POLITICS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); CHURCH & STATE (66%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (62%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (56%); HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MFG (56%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (50%)

COMPANY: WALLS AS (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (72%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (72%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (91%) EGYPT (97%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



475 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Obama a Frequent Flier To 2012 Swing States

BYLINE: By MCHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
If there is one thing a president has to do in an election year, it is to find a way to balance official duties with campaign travel. Too much focus on official duties can make an incumbent look isolated and aloof. Too much electioneering risks exposing the president to attacks that he is losing focus on the nation's problems.
President Obama will confront just that challenge in the coming days as he hosts a world leader and then travels to South Korea - cramming donor events and re-election rallies in between. His Republican rivals have already accused him of holding too many fund-raisers and playing too much golf. 
The real trick? Figuring out how to carry out his official duties and achieve his campaign objectives at the same time. Just look at Mr. Obama's recent travel, as he has pitched his economic plans around the country. The places he has gone for official presidential travel? Mostly swing states that will be crucial in November.
Here is a look at the week ahead for the president:
Swing State Diplomacy
Perhaps the best example of Mr. Obama's balancing act will occur on Tuesday when the president welcomes Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain for a two-day state visit. Their first event? A quick trip on Tuesday to watch the opening games of the N.C.A.A. men's college basketball tournament.
The tournament just happens to be in Dayton, Ohio - perhaps the most important swing state in the country. On Wednesday morning, the papers and television stations in Dayton will be filled with images of Mr. Obama the sports fan sitting with Mr. Cameron at the games. That is a good thing for his campaign, and probably not bad for relations with the United States' closest ally, either.
Mr. Obama is sure to be criticized by his Republican rivals for the taxpayer-financed trip, which, they will note, seems all too convenient. On Wednesday, he will play host to Mr. Cameron for a more traditional state dinner back at the White House.
Presidential Travel
Once Mr. Cameron leaves, Mr. Obama will take the opportunity for a couple of true campaign events as he looks for re-election cash in Chicago and Atlanta. Most of Mr. Obama's travel this year has conveniently combined official business with trips to states that he would like to win in the fall.
Since January, Mr. Obama has flown to Iowa, Arizona, Nevada, Michigan, Virginia, Wisconsin, Florida, New Hampshire and North Carolina. All were official trips in which the president talked about his economic plans, toured factories and prodded Republicans in Congress to act on his proposals. But they are also among the states that will be critical for Mr. Obama in November. The speeches he gives in those places - like the fiery one he delivered on Feb. 28 to the United Auto Workersin the nation's capital - serve as much to rouse voters as they do to outline his economic policies.
Leaving the Country
Among the riskiest things that a president can do when he is running for re-election is to leave the country. Yet being president requires travel abroad, and Mr. Obama is headed to South Korea in a couple of weeks. He will attend a nuclear security summit meeting, but it will be a quick trip. Mr. Obama will be there just a little more than a day or so and then head back.
Mr. Obama was a globetrotter in his first two years in office, traveling all over the world (though some of the trips were delayed because of debates in Congress over health care and taxes). This year, the president is likely to curtail his overseas trips, hoping to avoid criticism from voters or his Republican rivals. One piece of good fortune? The annual NATO summit meeting and Group of 8 meeting of world leaders will take place in the United States this year.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (74%); SPORTS FANS (69%); BASKETBALL (65%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF DAYTON (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); DAVID CAMERON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (69%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (52%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2012



476 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: Word of the Day | outstrip

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK


HIGHLIGHT: This word has appeared in 41 New York Times articles in the past year. 

 BODY:
outstrip \[#x2cc]au[#x307]t-[#x2c8]strip\ verb
1. go far ahead of
2. be or do something to a greater degree
The word outstrip has appeared in 41 New York Times articles in the past year, including on July 29 in "Japanese, in Shortage, Willingly Ration Watts" by Norimitsu Onishi:
Already a leader in conservation, Japan consumes about half as much energy per capita as the United States, according to the United Nations Population Fund. But it has been pushed to even greater lengths since the nuclear disaster even as it tries to revive its economy. The accident at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant and the resulting backlash against nuclear power have left only 17 out of Japan's 54 reactors online as the nation steels itself for August, the hottest month of the year.
... At Meiwa Rubber, a manufacturer of printing equipment with factories in Tokyo, lights were dimmed, the use of hot water was restricted, and the air-conditioning was curtailed. An employee tracked the factory's real-time power use, using software supplied by Tepco. If demand neared the company's maximum use for the year before, orange lights flashed on the factory and management floors; if demand threatened to outstrip maximum use, red lights flashed, leading employees to shut down three air-conditioning units.
The Word of the Day and its definitions have been provided by Vocabulary.com and the Visual Thesaurus.
Learn more about the word "outstrip" and see usage examples across a range of subjects on the Vocabulary dictionary.
Click on the word below to map it and hear it pronounced:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (76%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (75%); POWER PLANTS (71%) Word of the Day

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS POPULATION FUND (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



477 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: March 12, 1947 | Truman Doctrine Announced

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK


HIGHLIGHT: On March 12, 1947, in a speech before a joint session of Congress, President Harry S. Truman asked Congress to grant economic and military aid to Greece and Turkey to help those countries resist Communism. 

 BODY:
On March 12, 1947, in a speech before a joint session of Congress, President Harry S. Truman asked Congress to grant economic and military aid to Greece and Turkey to help those countries resist Communism. The speech established what became known as the Truman Doctrine, a policy "to support free peoples who are resisting attempted subjugation by armed minorities or by outside pressures."
As The New York Times reported, "Although the president refrained from mentioning the Soviet Union by name, there could be no mistaking his identification of the Communist state as the source of much of the unrest throughout the world."
The United States and the Soviet Union had been allies during World War II, but this relationship had quickly deteriorated in the post-war years. The Soviets delayed pulling out of Iran and had, in Truman's words, "made frequent protests against coercion and intimidation, in violation of the Yalta agreement, in Poland, Rumania, and Bulgaria."

Greece and Turkey were "threatened" by Communism in different ways. Greece was in the midst of a civil war between the government and Communists supported by Yugoslavia (though only indirectly by the Soviet Union). Turkey, at that time, was under pressure from the Soviet Union to relinquish partial control of the Dardanelles. Both countries had been receiving aid from Britain, but Britain announced in February 1947 that it would soon cut financing, prompting Truman to act.
Truman's announcement marked a distinct shift in U.S. foreign policy. While the country had traditionally been reluctant to enter conflicts outside the Americas, Truman was now pledging to intercede in conflicts all over the globe to contain the growth of Communism. 
The Truman Doctrine would form the basis of U.S. policy during the cold war with the Soviet Union -- in fact, many historians argue that the cold war began with the Truman Doctrine. Over the next several years, the United States would strengthen its policy of containment through the Marshall Plan to provide economic aid to Europe, the formation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) to protect against the Soviet Union, and the National Security Council's top-secret
NSC-68 paper, which supported a military build-up to combat the Soviets. The containment policy presented in the Truman Doctrine would lead the U.S. into conflicts like the Korean and Vietnam wars.
Connect to Today:
An August 2011 post on The Times's Opinionator blog referred to President Obama's "non-doctrine" policy on Libya, and questioned whether it was effective and what it meant for the future of U.S. foreign policy.
Michael Tomasky, of The Daily Beast, wrote similarly of Mr. Obama's approach, "Call it the doctrine of no doctrine: using our power and influence but doing so prudently and multilaterally, with the crucial recognition that Egypt is different from Libya is different from Syria is different from someplace else. According to the foreign-policy establishment, if you want to have a self-respecting big-D doctrine, you're not supposed to recognize differences. The doctrine must guide all cases. But that is exactly the kind of thinking that has led - always - to tragedy. The Truman Doctrine was never meant to be applied to Vietnam. The Bush Doctrine was applied to Iraq based on a series of lies told to the American people."
Do you think "doctrines" are a sensible way to guide foreign policy? Is it important to have a firm establishment of principles with which to approach international issues? Or is it better to take a unique approach to different issues? Do you think future history books will refer to an "Obama Doctrine"? If so, how will they define it?
Learn more about what happened in history on March 12
Learn more about Historic Headlines and our collaboration with findingDulcinea 

        
PUB-DATE: March 5, 1946
        
Feb. 17, 1972 | Nixon Departs for Diplomatic Trip to China
        
PUB-DATE: March 8, 1917
        
Feb. 9, 1943 | U.S. Defeats Japan at Guadalcanal
        
Feb. 3, 1917 | U.S. Breaks Relations With Germany and Plans to Declare War

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); COLD WAR (89%); HISTORY (88%); CIVIL WAR (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (69%) communism; foreign policy; Global Conflicts; Harry S. Truman; President Truman; world history; Historic Headlines

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GREECE (91%); POLAND (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); BULGARIA (79%); UKRAINE (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (57%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



478 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: What Europe Could Have Learned From the U.S. Bank Bailout

BYLINE: PETER EAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: The United States government intended its rescue programs to support lending and prevent death spirals in the banks' stocks with two little known features that its European counterparts didn't implement. 

 BODY:
Was the United States government savvier about its banks than the Europeans? 
Banks with inadequate capital are vulnerable to losses on their loans and securities and can become a source of instability for the whole financial system. As a result, regulators around the world have been taking measures to increase the capital loss buffers at their banks.
But in doing so, they face two major challenges.
 The first: How do you keep banks from meeting their capital requirements by decreasing their holdings of loans and bonds?
Such asset reductions can damp economic growth. On Monday, the Bank for International Settlements released a report that said shedding assets was likely to have played a "small part" in Europe's most recent bank recapitalization plan. 
The Europeans have also expressed their capital target as a ratio. By the end of June, one crucial measure of capital at Europe's largest banks needs to be equivalent to 9 percent of risk-weighted assets. 
The United States deliberately did things differently. As part of the bank recapitalization plan that went along with the 2009 bank stress tests, American regulators chose not to express its target as a ratio, since it can crimp lending. 
Capital ratios divide a bank's capital by the amount of its assets, so that $8 billion of capital supporting $100 billion of assets gives a capital ratio of 8 percent. If regulators said the bank had to hit a 10 percent capital ratio, it could simply cut assets to $80 billion rather than increase the dollar amount of capital from $8 billion.
By contrast, American regulators stated in 2009 that banks had to hit a certain dollar amount of capital. As a result, banks could not achieve their capital targets by reducing assets. 
"We specified the capital need in terms of dollars rather than in terms of a capital ratio," William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New Yorksaid in 2011. "In other words, we did not allow banks the option of shrinking their risk-weighted assets in order to push up their capital ratios. We didn't want banks to shrink to minimize the amount of capital needed because such behavior might have damaged the macroeconomy."
Franca Rosa Congiu, a spokeswoman for the European Banking Authority, said the regulator took steps to avoid asset reductions that would hurt the wider economy. Its capital plan stated that any asset reductions that had "a direct impact on lending to the real economy would not be considered for achieving the 9 percent target."
The second challenge with capital plans involves banks' stock prices.
A typical way to increase capital is to issue new shares. But if investors believe a bank is going undertake a big capital raise, the bank's share price is likely to decline in advance of the share sale, forcing the bank to issue an increasing number of shares to fill the capital gap. If that process feeds on itself, a bank's stock price can go into a tailspin, which can lessen the general appetite for bank shares and damage the wider capital plan. UniCredit's share issue earlier this year behaved a lot like this. 
But the Americans' 2009 bank capital plan had a little-noticed feature that potentially removed this threat. The United States government said, if necessary, it could make capital available out of its bailout fund to banks based on a preset share price that in most cases would not have been punitive. 
Banks rarely took this option, because they didn't want the stigma that comes with having a government stake, and because private investors were willing to provide the capital. But its existence may have played a crucial role in protecting banks from speculative attacks aimed at creating death spirals in their stocks. 
Granted, the latest European bank capital plan recommends that "government backstops should be made available" to make up any capital shortfalls. And European banks may not have wanted to tap such backstops, because, like their American counterparts, they don't want their government as stakeholders. 
Even so, the Americans appeared to better understand the dynamics surrounding the 2009 bank capital raises. That may have helped bolster confidence at a time when, as with Europe today, a large degree of nervousness was swirling around the big banks. 

        
European Banks Hunt for Ways to Raise Cash
        
Treasury to Sell $6 Billion Worth of A.I.G. Shares

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); CURRENCIES (69%) Bank of International Settlements; European Banking Authority; Federal Reserve Bank of New York; William Dudley; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (64%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (83%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (64%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (64%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



479 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1594 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: Another Jobs Bill!

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Do you think you have benefited from the government's jobs bills? 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my business and other small-business owners this week.
The Big Story: Conflicting Job Numbers
ADP reports the private sector added 216,000 (pdf) jobs but the unemployment rate stays at 8.3 percent. Gallup says unemployment rose to 9.1 percent. Small businesses report their third straight month of job gains. But productivity starts to fall as labor costs jump. Weekly jobless claims rise. A study finds there is a disconnect between recent unemployment statistics and real-world demand for skilled temporary workers. A report says that cloud computing could create 14 million new jobs by 2015. The House passes a bipartisan jobs bill intended, in part, to make it easier for small businesses to raise money. A congresswoman makes a voting goof.
The Economy: Is Consumer Confidence Useless?
Forty percent of Americans believe the economy is growing, and Zions Bank says there is an upturn in optimism for small businesses. But Avi Gilburt says the United States has two choices: depression or bankruptcy. General Motors suspends production of the Volt. New manufacturing orders slowed in January. But the Institute for Supply Management says services are up. Even though the Fed is taking a break on stimulus, Eric Parnell is concerned about "Dr. Bernanke's monster." Morgan Stanley still expects another round of easing. Consumer borrowing increases. James Bianco says consumer confidence is the world's most useless statistic: "The conference board index is calculated by asking consumers a series of five questions. ... To most Americans these questions are too abstract. It is like asking them, 'What is the weather in the United States and what do you expect the weather of the United States to be?' How does one answer this? You would probably look out the window and describe what you see."
People: Destroying an Employee's Life 
Teresa Amabile and Steven Kramer explain how to completely and utterly destroy an employee's work life. As more employers demand an applicant's Facebook log-ins, a new study finds that professionalism among entry-level and young employees has declined over the past five years. Could this also be why wages of younger workers are declining? Mike Brooks explains how to make your sales manager better. For the 12th year in a row, identity theft was the No. 1 consumer complaint. Lauren Carlson reports on five ways women in sales sabotage their success, including "undervaluing themselves and their services." A study finds that women who used birth control had an 8 percent higher income by the time they became 50.
Start-Up: Break Out the Booze
Nearly half of start-ups are founded by "user entrepreneurs." A new "social-activation platform" raises $3.2 million to help marketers reach an influential audience. A "Bad Girl" entrepreneur, Candace Klein, introduces a new lending platform. If you really want to get your start-up financed, try breaking out the booze. Brandon Ballenger suggests three resources every start-up should know. And could this be the best start-up video ever?
Marketing: Why S.E.O. Will Disappear
A "trends manager" from YouTube explains why videos go viral. Meanwhile, a video about a Ugandan warlord gets seven million views in two days. Greg Shuey explains how to market your business for less than $5 a month. Bob Thompson has a great barbecue-grill-buying experience. Five platforms are excellent for tracking and analyzing customer habits. Jeff Haden says there are eight guaranteed ways to drive customers away, such as "Focus too heavily on price": "If your marketing focuses mostly on price, you'll train customers to constantly look for a lower price, both from you and your competition." Axel Schultze explains why search engine optimization will disappear in the next 10 years.
Social Media: Where It's Going
Kevin Kelleher talks about where social networking is headed. Kate Hyslop believes that one of the five most important things small and midsize businesses can do online is to create a compelling online-offline journey: "Focus on offers and promotions that will turn online interest into offline purchases." Pinterest's rapid rise increases small-business sales and the only guy on the site says hello. Jay Baer says there are 14 ways the new Facebook betrays small businesses. Facebook Offers is one of seven changes Andrea Vahl says are now affecting businesses. Christopher S. Penn offers five tips for using Facebook's new Timeline.
Management: Keeping Customers
Gladys Edmunds has this advice about minding your budget and adding value to your company. The influential chef Ming Tsai discusses his success starting a business (but the world's most influential otter has died). Joseph Rangel explains why you must have passion. Eric T. Anderson and Duncan I. Simester say that stable prices keep customers coming back. And why is this goat eating at a New York pizza shop? Meg Cadoux Hirshberg offers a guide for entrepreneurs and their spouses, including: "Turn off the phone." Warren Rutherford says you need the right action plan. Mark Levinson explains why retailers don't recover from bankruptcy.
Ideas: A Use for Twitter!
The Oreo turns 100, and you can now buy a Sprinkles cupcake from a vending machine. Rising gas prices create smoking hot demand for used cooking oil. You can now send beer over Twitter. "Cash mobs," the anti-Groupon, are the new rage. Online pet stores can be profitable. Here are 10 Google search tricks you might not know. Both Yahoo! Small Business and Orbitz introduce new services for business owners.
Around the Country: California Leavin'
Economists believe that shale gas and oil will add $5 billion to Ohio's economy by 2014 and the Marcellus Shale Coalition introduces an online business directory to connect the natural gas industry with small and medium-size regional companies. A bunch of companies left California in 2011, and the state introduces a bill for fairer franchising. A South Carolina bill would require public restrooms in all shops. Here are a few women to watch at Austin's SXSW this week. After 47 pitches, 16 teams, 54 hours and thousands of Post-it notes in Iowa, the "Yankees" of Startup Weekend took home the top prize.
Around the World: Massive Spider Webs
Ashvin Pandurangi says financial projections around the world are getting ugly. Some feel that Europe's recession has barely begun. The Australia Services Index plunges and massive spider webs engulf an Australian town. An escaped penguin outraces Tokyo authorities. Scott Lincicome offers a dose of United States-China trade optimism. Michael Beckley wonders if China is a competitive threat: "China is obviously an important economic player. Simply because of its size, it commands attention in global negotiations on trade, finance and the environment. But China will remain poor and technologically underdeveloped for many years. As a result, its prosperity will remain dependent on ties to the global economy and, in particular, on good economic relations with the United States." Amid signs of weaker loan demand, China cuts its growth target for this year to 7.5 percent. Some predict the country is heading for only 3 percent growth.
Boss of the Week
The John Conti Coffee Company sends trucks of supplies to help tornado victims.
Technology: A New iPad
As small-business iPad use explodes, a new model is announced. Here are the numbers - and why every small business needs one. But watch out: the Kindle Fire is grabbing one-third of tablet traffic. And there are many ways Windows 8 outshines the iPad. Small businesses should proceed with caution on Ultrabooks. Here's how to choose between an Android phone and an iPhone for your company. Joe McKendrick offers 10 action items information technology departments should complete by next year. A new gadget invented at Bell Labs can add capacity to data networks. Here are four techie office pranks. Harry Mylonadis offers 10 reasons to date a geek.YouSendIt introduces a collaboration tool with Sharepoint tie-ins. Fuel economy in new autos is up 18 percent since 2007. Amazon cuts its Web services prices again. Here are 12 signs you have become a tech dinosaur.
The Week's Bests
Reasons America Is Not in Decline. Steve Yetiv, a political science professor at Old Dominion University, says the United States has "the world's best entrepreneurs and by far the highest number of Fortune 500 companies. It remains at the forefront of the technologies of the future, such as biotechnology and nanotechnology, and has the advantage in cyberspace, even though it has fallen behind in some other areas, like green technologies."
Advice for Using Mobile at a Trade Show. Chad Udell has four suggestions, including, "Allow attendees to use their own devices to interact with your content": "What better way to get people engaged with your content and your offering than by enabling them to use their own smartphones and tablets to interact directly with your booth?"
Quick Ways to Improve Your Life. Want a quick fix? Eric Barker says, "Visualize yourself doing, not achieving": "People who visualize themselves taking the practical steps needed to achieve their goals are far more likely to succeed than those who simply fantasize about their dreams becoming a reality."
This Week's Question: Do you think you have benefited from the government's jobs bills?
Marks Group

        
Economic Indicator? How About Picture Framing?
        
This Week in Small Business: An Immense Fiscal Cliff
        
This Week in Small Business: Redefining Small
        
This Week in Small Business: Lessons From Chuck Norris
        
This Week in Small Business: The Bacon Milkshake

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); STATISTICS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); NEW ORDERS (76%); TRENDS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); SALES MANAGEMENT (75%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); IDENTITY THEFT (60%) economy; Entrepreneurship; Small Business; Economic Conditions and Trends; Start-ups; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (68%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%); FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%); MS (NYSE) (54%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



480 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: How Important Is It to Have a Driver's License?

BYLINE: SHANNON DOYNE


HIGHLIGHT: Student Opinion | Do You Think Teenage Rites of Passage Have Changed in Recent Years? 

 BODY:
In the Opinion piece "The Go-Nowhere Generation" Todd G. Buchholz and Victoria Buchholz write about the tendency of young people today to stay close to home upon entering the workforce and be less interested in driving:
In the most startling behavioral change among young people since James Dean and Marlon Brando started mumbling, an increasing number of teenagers are not even bothering to get their driver's licenses. Back in the early 1980s, 80 percent of 18-year-olds proudly strutted out of the D.M.V. with newly minted licenses, according to a study by researchers at the University of Michigan's Transportation Research Institute. By 2008 - even before the Great Recession - that number had dropped to 65 percent. Though it's easy to blame the high cost of cars or gasoline, Comerica Bank's Automobile Affordability Index shows that it takes fewer weeks of work income to buy a car today than in the early 1980s, and inflation-adjusted gasoline prices didn't get out of line until a few years ago.
Perhaps young people are too happy at home checking Facebook. In a study of 15 countries, Michael Sivak, a professor at the University of Michigan's Transportation Research Institute (who also contributed to the D.M.V. research), found that when young people spent more time on the Internet, they delayed getting their driver's licenses. "More time on Facebook probably means less time on the road," he said. That may mean safer roads, but it also means a bumpier, less vibrant economy.
Students: Share your observations about your generation's interest in reaching milestones in independence like getting a driver's license, having a part-time job, and negotiating an agreeable curfew. Do you think Facebook affects teens' desire to assert their independence or establish their identity apart from their families? Or are there other factors, like having to pay for a car or its maintenance and gas, at work here? Are parents today more willing to provide transportation? How do your parents and other adults describe their teenage years? Would you like to have grown up in the pre-Internet era? Why or why not?
Students 13 and older are invited to comment below. Please use only your first name. For privacy policy reasons, we will not publish student comments that include a last name.

        
Film Festival | Documentaries About Technology
        
Does Your Digital Life Have Side Effects?
        
Do You Have a Blog?
        
A 'Rock Star Emissary' From the World of Teenagers
        
Jan. 10, 2000 | AOL and Time Warner Announce Merger

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DRIVERS LICENSES (91%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); LICENSES & PERMITS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (87%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); FAMILY (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (68%); GASOLINE MARKETS (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (58%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (50%) digital culture; driving; Facebook; identity; Internet; rites of passage; teenagers; Teenagers and Adolescence (Des);; Student Opinion

COMPANY: COMERICA INC (69%); FACEBOOK INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%)

TICKER: CMA (NYSE) (69%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (69%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



481 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
: On the need for a stable food supply in Egypt, where people eat more bread than anywhere else in the world. ... -- Julia Moskin
Specialty Food.com: ... And the latest in staff-of-life statistics: Despite price spikes due to lower crop yields, the United States reached record-high yearly bread sales of $21.6 billion last year, and bread consumption in the down economy is increasing while eating out is decreasing. Can bread continue to rise? -- Glenn Collins 
: The first, best dessert of spring: rhubarb cake. ... -- Julia Moskin
Culture: ... And suggestions for a spring cheese plate. -- Jeff Gordinier
: The rising popularity of rye whiskey is leading to the increasing scarcity of some brands, as distillers struggle to keep up with demand. -- Robert Simonson
Wine, naturally: Jason Lett recounts in detail an industrial recipe for making the sort of smooth, plush, sweet wines that are commercially popular. -- Eric Asimov 
The New York Post: In December, our own Jeff Gordinier reported on Gradisca, a restaurant in the Village where "Mama" Caterina Schenardi makes pasta right under the noses of diners. The showbiz lure of live noodle-slinging is apparently catching on. -- Patrick Farrell 
The Wall Street Journal: Three variations on hummus, including a melted-butter-enriched Turkish spin from Zahav, in Philadelphia. -- Jeff Gordinier
The New Potato: A brief encounter with Jon DeLucie, self-proclaimed purveyor of "comfort food for millionaires." Asked what drink he has just discovered, he gives a Romneyish response: "Water." -- Patrick Farrell
Outside: How is Gulf Coast seafood doing in the wake of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill? Rowan Jacobsen, on a quest to cook up a truly local gumbo, learns that the bad mojo is a long way from evaporating. -- Jeff Gordinier
: Things aren't quite as bad yet as in Toyko, but New York is flirting with the $50 steak. Blame a dwindling cattle herd in this country and a growing hunger for beef abroad. -- Patrick Farrell
Bloomberg Businessweek: Way before that comment about Wall Streeters, and before his recent legal troubles, Mario Batali had an excellent restaurant-opening adventure in Singapore: marathon tasting sessions, a death-defying golf round and a booze cruise with a casino magnate. --
Glenn Collins 
Decanter: "He has been, and remains, the great galvanizer: inspiring producers to do better, and inspiring drinkers to engage with the wines he feels passionately about.'' Andew Jefford ruminates on Robert M. Parker Jr.'s exaltation of the 2009 Bordeaux vintage. -- Eric Asimov 
The Journal News: A new director for the Native Plant Center at Westchester Community College. -- Jeff Gordinier
The New York Daily News: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg may be known as a nag on food-health issues, but his favorite coffee shop rates a B for cleanliness. -- Patrick Farrell
Vice: Cooking, drinking, eating and talking about food and creative freedom during a night in San Francisco with Danny Bowien from Mission Chinese Food. -- Jeff Gordinier

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BAKED GOODS (90%); CHEESE (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); DISTILLERIES (74%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (74%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); OIL SPILLS (63%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (63%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (61%); METAL COATING & ENGRAVING (60%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (91%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



482 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: America's Fossil-Fuels Jobs Boom

BYLINE: ANNIE LOWREY


HIGHLIGHT: As rising global demand drives up oil prices, employment in industries based on oil and gas extraction has grown sharply in the United States. 

 BODY:
With gasoline prices spiraling higher and weighing on economic confidence, President Obama called over the weekend for further investment in a "clean-energy future." But there is a flip side to that increasing pain at the pump: a huge jobs boom in fossil fuels industries.
Rising global demand - along with, more recently, concern over the situation in Iran - has driven gasoline prices higher. The climbing prices have been a boon for oil businesses even as they have cut into household budgets, and big oil companies have added rigs and workers in recent years.
The natural-gas industry has seen a coinciding boom as advances in extraction have made it possible to get more gas out of shale rock - the controversial practice known as hydraulic fracturing, or fracking. The United States is now extracting record volumes of natural gas - enough that domestic prices have fallen to their lowest level in a decade. (Other countries, particularly Japan, are eager for the United States to build better infrastructure to export it, and prices are two to three times as high abroad.)

It all adds up to a fossil fuel jobs boom: oil and gas extraction alone created 150,000 jobs last year - about 9 percent of all new jobs created in 2011, according to a new study from the World Economic Forum, though the industry accounts for only about 5.2 percent of total employment.
Looking more closely at Bureau of Labor Statistics data, virtually all parts of the oil and gas industry have seen job growth since the recession ended. Pipeline employment has risen 4 percent since June 2009. Oil and gas extraction has seen job growth of 18 percent. Employment in support activities for mining - like surveyors for drilling sites - has jumped 41 percent. During the same time period, total employment has increased just 2.1 percent.
Clean-energy industries have also grown, though not with the might of the fossil fuel industries. To be fair, good data is harder to come by. The Bureau of Labor Statistics does not track the wind or solar industries in the way it does oil and gas, with workers dispersed across the manufacturing, construction, operations and maintenance worker categories, among others. But the bureau has recently estimated that about 85,000 Americans work in wind energy and 93,000 in solar power.
A 2009 report by Pew Charitable Trusts found that the number of green jobs grew 9.1 percent between 1998 and 2007. A more recent study from the Brookings Institution estimated that the "clean economy" added 500,000 jobs between 2003 and 2010 - a respectable jobs-growth rate of about 3.4 percent per year.
But even with a breakneck pace of growth, the clean-energy industry would not be creating as many jobs as the fossil fuel industry: It simply is not big enough at the moment to draw in hundreds of thousands of new workers per year. The Pew study, for instance, estimated that 770,000 people worked in green energy. That compares with more than nine million jobs for oil and gas, and many more for coal and other industries.

        
Why Job Growth Is Likely to Slow
        
Unemployment by Job Category
        
Jobs Figures Keep Improving
        
Comparing Recessions and Recoveries: Job Changes
        
Looking for a Labor Force Comeback

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); STATISTICS (87%); WIND ENERGY (78%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%) energy; green jobs; jobs; Natural Gas; Energy and Power; Labor and Jobs; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (54%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



483 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Can Sarkozy, the Candidate, Make Voters Forget Sarkozy, the President?

BYLINE: MARCUS MABRY


HIGHLIGHT: Starting to narrow the gap with challenger Fran&#231;ois Hollande, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France hit right-wing themes hard last night. But will his tough words be enough to win over a country angry at him and Europe's disconnected political elite? 

 BODY:
Nicolas Sarkozy, the incumbent French president, has been fighting a seemingly uphill battle for re-election. Polls put him behind his leading challenger, Franois Hollande, the Socialist candidate. And even Mr. Sarkozy has conducted himself at times as if the race was already lost. He made bizarre remarks in late January to journalists, ostensibly off the record, where he seemed negative, even morose, about his chances, and last week he was talking again about losing.
Indeed, photos at the time showed a man who appeared beaten and weary. 
So, I was surprised when some of my fellow panelists on the French news channel France24, French journalists, insisted that Mr. Sarkozy might convince the French electorate that he is the very embodiment of the rage they feel toward a moribund economy and diminishing prospects - despite having been president for almost five years. 
"If Sarkozy The Candidate can make the French people forget about Sarkozy The President - in a matter of weeks," I said, underscoring that Mr. Sarkozy had not yet declared his candidacy for an election in April, "then he truly is one of the most talented politicians of his generation."
But, at the time, all over the French press there were clues that one way Mr. Sarkozy might hope to make one of the greatest comebacks in recent political history was to change the conversation - from France's economic malaise and a growing distrust of the country's political elite to one about the country's changing ethnic makeup and a persistent distrust of Muslim and other immigrants, including French citizens descended from North African immigrants.
One of the clearest indication months ago of what in the U.S. is called a "culture war" campaign - if one were needed after decades of vitriol around issues of immigration, "insecurity" and national identity in France, including under Mr. Sarkozy as interior minister and President - was the Feb. 9 cover of the conservative weekly Valeurs Actuelles, or Values Today. The issue insisted with chest-thumping bravado that a recent slip of the tongue by Claude Guant, the current interior minister, was no slip of the tongue at all. 
Both the comment and, the magazine insisted, Mr. Sarkozy's full-throated defense of Mr. Guant, were extremely deliberate.
Speaking before a right-wing student political organization, in a speech meant to psych them up to be the foot soldiers of Mr. Sarkozy's campaign, the interior minister said, "We must protect our civilization."
"Contrary to the relativist ideology of the left, for us, not all civilizations have the same value," he said. After the comment set off a political storm, he restated it. 
The meeting, which is usually off the record and from which the media is barred, was nonetheless recorded by a party activist who is attending journalism school.
The cover of the magazine (Thatchermania: Why She Succeded. A Role Model for Sarkozy?) also included the title of a column inside: "Voting for the FN, is a vote for the left," meaning those who vote for the ultra-right National Front are helping elect Mr. Hollande. 
Last week, Mr. Sarkozy attracted global attention when he declared there are "too many foreigners" in France. Our colleagues over at The Lede blog followed coverage of the speech.
And yesterday, with six weeks until the first round of presidential voting, Mr. Sarkozy gave a speech that crackled with the issues and the arguments that he will use to convince the French people that he is, indeed, the embodiment of their anger and anxiety. 
Speaking at a rally of the faithful, Mr. Sarkozy struck "strongly conservative notes on immigration, Islam and protectionism," as my colleague Steven Erlanger reports, threatening to suspend French participation in the Schengen open-borders group and pushing for "Buy European" legislation. 
As my exchange with my colleagues indicated a month ago, this is hardly a surprise. Right-wing parties across the world often root their electoral arguments in these issues. Just as, in this election year, candidates from left-leaning parties like Mr. Hollande and President Obama will be inveighing against big, rich banks. 
Still, with the economic problems facing France, and Mr. Sarkozy's recent attempt to raise the valued add tax, Sarkozy The Candidate may find it hard to distance himself from Sarkozy The President. 
To win, he must also overcome that famous mouth. The U.K. daily, The Telegraph ran a story dated today about how Mr. Sarkozy told a farmer's wife complaining about how hard it is to make ends meet: "And I don't own 40 hectares. OK?" 
The Telegraph described Mr. Sarkozy as "clearly annoyed, and tapping her husband on the chest."
From calling journalists "paedophiles" to telling David Cameron to "shut up" and describing sumo wrestlers as "obese guys with Brylcreemed buns," the hot-headed, hyperactive French president has never been a great loss to the diplomatic service or knowingly minced his words.
But many around Mr. Sarkozy say he is better at the rough and tumble of campaigning than the methodical and often slow business of governing. 
They say he needs something - or someone - to fight.
Claude Guant, the French interior minister, said "toutes les civilisations ne se valent pas," meaning "not all civilizations have the same value" not, as a previous version of this post translated, "not all civilizations have value."

        
Europe Doesn't Like Sarkozy Either ... And Few Other Leaders
        
Throwing His Hat Into the Ring at Last, Will Sarko Lose His Head Too?
        
Celebrities Weigh Into Elle Dispute

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (60%) 2012 French Presidential Elections; European immigration; France; nicolas sarkozy; Sarkozy; Schengen; Hollande, Francois; Sarkozy, Nicolas; Elections; Immigration and Emigration; Muslims and Islam; Politics and Government; National Front (France); Europe; View From Europe

ORGANIZATION: National Front (France)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (95%); FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (92%) Hollande, Francois; Sarkozy, Nicolas

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) Europe; France

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012



484 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Bailout Watchdogs Criticize A.I.G. Tax Breaks

BYLINE: KEVIN ROOSE


HIGHLIGHT: A special tax provision granted to the American International Group at the height of the financial crisis is drawing criticism from the Congressional Oversight Panel for the Troubled Asset Relief Program. 

 BODY:
A special tax provision granted to the American International Group during the financial crisis is drawing attention from the former watchdogs who oversaw the government bailout programs.
On Monday, four former members of the Congressional Oversight Panel for the Troubled Asset Relief Program released a statement condemning a tax-related exemption given to A.I.G. in 2008 by the Treasury Department. 
The exemption allowed A.I.G. and several other struggling companies to apply their "net operating losses" against future tax bills, despite a rule that eliminates them when a company is acquired or files for bankruptcy. By doing so, the insurer - which was effectively taken over by the government after a $182 billion bailout - was able to lower its tax burden by billions of dollars. Last month, A.I.G. reported a $19.8 billion profit for the fourth quarter, largely related to its net operating losses.
 "When the government bailed out A.I.G., it should not have allowed the failed insurance giant to duck taxes for years to come," said Elizabeth Warren, the committee's former chairwoman and a current Senate candidate in Massachusetts. The statement was also signed by Damon Silvers, J. Mark McWatters and Kenneth Troske, former members of the committee, a bipartisan group that was disbanded last year.
Mark Herr, an A.I.G. spokesman, said that the company was simply "adhering to well-settled tax law that a company can use losses to offset its income." Mr. Herr added that the insurer had "repaid the American taxpayer more than $45 billion to date and is committed to taking all possible steps so that American taxpayers can continue to recoup their investment in A.I.G. at a profit."
In a blog post this month, Emily McMahon, the acting assistant secretary of the Treasury for tax policy, said that recent press reports about A.I.G.'s tax provision had presented an "incomplete picture." Allowing A.I.G. and other companies to apply the losses, Ms. McMahon wrote, "made them stronger businesses, helped attract private capital and further stabilized the overall financial system."
 Still, former committee members said that it represented a "stealth bailout."
"Exempting A.I.G. from the normal corporate tax rules is harmful to the public interest," Mr. Silvers said in the statement. "This corporate tax break transfers public money to A.I.G.'s private shareholders and inflates executive pay at A.I.G. - both at the public's expense."
News of the panel members' statement was earlier reported by Politico.
The full text of the joint statement is below:
Former Members of Congressional Oversight Panel Condemn Stealth Bailout of American International Group (AIG): Failed Insurance Giant Should Not Get Special Deals to Avoid Taxes
BOSTON - Congress should not allow American International Group (AIG) to avoid paying taxes for years into the future in addition to the $182 billion bailout the company has already received, said a bipartisan group of former members of the Congressional Oversight Panel for the Troubled Asset Relief Program. The group includes former Chair Elizabeth Warren and former panel members Damon Silvers, Mark McWatters, and Kenneth Troske.
When a company changes ownership, long-standing tax laws limit the extent to which it can offset future taxes with past losses. Beginning in late 2008, however, the Treasury Department quietly issued a series of notices that exempted AIG from those limits. This provided AIG an additional taxpayer subsidy: bailout money and a special tax break that some estimate has contributed to $17.7 billion in profits for the company. Today, the former members of the oversight panel called for Congress to end the special tax deals and stop bailing out AIG.
"AIG gambled recklessly on mortgage-backed securities and lost," said Warren, former chair of the Panel. "When the government bailed out AIG, it should not have allowed the failed insurance giant to duck taxes for years to come. That kind of bonus wasn't necessary to protect the economy. It also gives AIG a leg up against its competitors at a time when everyone should have to play by the same rules - especially when it comes to paying taxes," said Warren.
McWatters and Troske added in a joint statement: "This tax break only adds to the benefits received by the executives, shareholders and creditors of AIG, all of whom profited from the taxpayer-financed bailout. More important, this benefit exacerbates the distortions produced by Treasury's bailout of too-big-to-fail firms while also allowing Treasury to further mask the true cost of the TARP."
Silvers added: "Exempting AIG from the normal corporate tax rules is harmful to the public interest. This corporate tax break transfers public money to AIG's private shareholders and inflates executive pay at AIG - both at the public's expense."
The group agreed that Washington needs to stop doing special deals for too-big-to-fail companies that hurt American families, and that a good way to start is for Congress to stand up, end these special tax breaks and make companies like AIG pay their fair share.
The Congressional Oversight Panel was established by the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act, passed by Congress in October 2008, and completed its oversight work last year. The Panel had reviewed the AIG bailout for Congress in a 273-page report dated June 10, 2010.
Each member of the bipartisan oversight Panel was appointed by Congressional leadership: Warren was appointed by Senator Harry Reid; McWatters was appointed by Rep. John Boehner; Silvers was appointed jointly by Rep. Nancy Pelosi and Senator Harry Reid; and Troske was appointed by Senator Mitch McConnell.

        
Full A.I.G. Payment Called Uncertain
        
A.I.G. Is Now Worried About Bad P.R. - for Policyholders

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (92%); BAILOUTS (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); CREDIT CRISIS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INSURANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); CORPORATE TAX (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); INVESTMENT BANKING (63%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (63%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (59%); SUBPRIME LENDING (59%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (52%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%) A.I.G.; AIG; American International Group; Elizabeth Warren; ongressional Oversight Panel for the Troubled Asset Relief Program; Troubled Assets Relief Program; Warren, Elizabeth; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; American International Group Inc; American International Group Inc|AIG|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: American International Group Inc

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (95%); 8685 (TSE) (95%) American International Group Inc; AIG; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (95%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (92%) Warren, Elizabeth

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



485 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Well)

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: New Worries About Sleeping Pills

BYLINE: RONI CARYN RABIN


HIGHLIGHT: A study finds an unsettling link between the use of sleeping pills and increased risk of death. 

 BODY:
Talk about sleepless nights.
Patients taking prescription sleep aids on a regular basis were nearly five times as likely as non-users to die over a period of two and a half years, according to a recent study. Even those prescribed fewer than 20 pills a year were at risk, the researchers found; heavy users also were more likely to develop cancer.
Unsurprisingly, the findings, published online in the journal BMJ, have caused a quite a stir. Americans filled some 60 million prescriptions for sleeping pills last year, up from 47 million in 2006, according to IMS Health, a health care services company. Panicked patients have been calling doctors' offices seeking reassurance; some others simply quit the pills cold turkey.
Some experts were quick to point out the study's shortcomings. The analysis did not prove that sleeping pills cause death, critics noted, only that there may be a correlation between the two. And while the authors suggested the sleeping pills were a factor in the deaths, those who use sleep aids tend as a group to be sicker than those who don't use them. The deaths may simply be a reflection of poorer health.
Still, the findings underscore concern about the exploding use of sleeping pills. Experts say that many patients, especially the elderly, should exercise more caution when using sleep medications, including the non-benzodiazepine hypnotics so popular today, like zolpidem (brand name Ambien), eszopiclone (Lunesta) and zaleplon (Sonata).
"If someone comes to me on a sleeping pill, usually my tactic is to try to take them off it," said Dr. Nancy A. Collop, president of the American Academy of Sleep Medicine and director of the Emory Sleep Center in Atlanta, who was an investigator in a clinical trial of Lunesta five years ago.
The non-benzodiazepine sedative hypnotics, on the market since the late 1980s, are believed to be safer and less likely to be abused than benzodiazepines or barbiturates. But many people take them for years, even though most are approved only for short-term use and generally their safety and effectiveness have not been evaluated beyond several weeks in clinical trials. (One exception is Lunesta, which was tested for up to six months.)
Some data suggest that the medications do not even do what they promise all that well, said Dr. Steven Woloshin, a professor of medicine at the Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice.
"The definition of insomnia is that you get less than six and a half hours of sleep, and it takes you 30 minutes or more to fall asleep," said Dr. Woloshin, who is advocating for new labeling that spells out how well a drug actually works compared with a placebo. "But even when the drugs work better than placebos, and they don't always, people still don't fall asleep in less than 30 minutes, and they still don't sleep much longer than six hours."
And, the clinical trials show, some still feel groggy the next day, a side effect of the drugs.
Data from the largest trial reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration when it approved Sonata found the drug did not extend sleeping time, Dr. Woloshin pointed out; subjects on a 10-milligram dose and those taking a placebo both slept 6 hours 20 minutes on average. And those on the drug took 36 minutes on average to fall asleep during the first week of the trial, only 14 minutes less than the control group needed to fall asleep.
One in 20 said they felt sleepy the next day, and some reported memory problems.
Data from a large trial of Lunesta, also reviewed by the F.D.A., showed that subjects slept 37 minutes longer than a control group, but got only 6 hours 22 minutes of sleep, and it still took them 30 minutes to fall asleep; it took the subjects on placebo 15 minutes longer.
Even setting aside the controversial new study, the risks of popular sedative hypnotics can be significant. They can trigger severe allergic reactions in rare cases and may increase breathing problems; they can worsen depression, often a cause of sleeplessness.
They can contribute to confusion that affects judgment and behavior and have been implicated in falls that can be fatal for older adults. They may be involved in overdoses in combination with alcohol, and their use raises the risk of car accidents.
Patients who use hypnotics also have reported engaging in complex and bizarre behaviors while they are in a half-awake, half-asleep state, from raiding the fridge in the middle of the night to having sex, talking on the phone and even driving.
Drug company officials say the sedative hypnotics have been shown to be both safe and effective, though like other prescription sleeping pills, they may carry some risks.
The study published last month, by researchers from the Viterbi Family Sleep Center at Scripps Clinic in San Diego, was not the first to tie sleeping pills to an increased risk of death. A 2007 study in Norway of nearly 15,000 people found men were 1.5 times as likely to die and women 1.7 times as likely to die if they used sleeping pills. A 2010 Canadian study of more than 14,000 people found users were 1.36 times as likely to die as non-users.
A 2009 Swedish study that followed several thousand men and women for 20 years found that men who were regular users of hypnotics were 4.5 times as likely to die, while women were twice as likely to die.
In the latest study, researchers used health system medical records to compare survival rates of 10,529 patients who used hypnotic drugs with 23,671 people who used none during the same period. Non-users were a much healthier group, but the researchers were able to compare users and non-users with the same chronic conditions. They did not, however, have access to critical information about psychiatric diagnoses, nor did they know the causes of death.
"We think there are many things going on, not just one," said Dr. Daniel F. Kripke, the paper's lead author. He believes the drugs may worsen depression and may damage DNA, leading to cancer.
Representatives of drug companies making popular sleeping pills were critical of Dr. Kripke's study. For one thing, they said, the observation period was too short to conclude that the drugs could contribute to the development of cancer. Sanofi-Aventis, maker of Ambien, issued a statement calling the new study "highly questionable."
So what is an insomniac to do?
Nothing rash. Quitting sleeping pills abruptly can result in serious withdrawal symptoms and agitation, not to mention sleepless nights. Patients must taper off the medication over many weeks, experts say.
If sleeplessness is a chronic problem, talk to your physician. Ask for a thorough evaluation to determine if an underlying medical or psychiatric condition may be the cause; sleeplessness can also be a side effect of some medications. Consider asking for a referral to a doctor who specializes in sleep medicine.
Practice good "sleep hygiene" - habits that are conducive to sleeping well. Have a set bedtime and adopt a pre-sleep ritual, like reading. Do not nap during the day. Do not watch television or use the computer before going to sleep. Avoid exercise, nicotine, alcohol, caffeine and spicy food for several hours before going to sleep. Block out light and noise from the bedroom.
Some studies suggest that cognitive behavioral therapy can be effective in combating insomnia. If your insurance does not cover face-to-face counseling, there are online programs that have been found to be successful for both insomnia and anxiety.

        
Do Noises Wake You Up at Night?
        
Does Exercise Help You Sleep?
        
Finding a Sleep Solution
        
Common Sleep Problem Linked With Memory Loss
        
The Wretched Life of the Insomniac

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (89%); SLEEP DISORDERS (89%); SLEEP (89%); DRUG SAFETY (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); CANCER (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); HEALTH CARE (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); WRITERS (71%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (70%); CLINICAL TRIALS (68%) Insomnia; Sleep; the consumer; Deaths (Fatalities); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Medicine and Health; Mental Health and Disorders

COMPANY: CARE SERVICE CO LTD (71%); IMS HEALTH INC (57%)

TICKER: 2425 (JASDAQ) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS621610 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (71%); SIC8082 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (71%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



486 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Gas Rewards Cards That Lessen the Sting of High Prices

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Rising gas prices can make cash-back gas credit cards attractive. 

 BODY:
With gas prices edging toward an average of $4 gallon, it may be time to consider a credit card that gives you cash-back rewards at the pump.
There are two types of credit cards that offer cash-back gas rewards: cards affiliated with a specific petroleum brand, and general purpose cards, which provide rewards for spending on gas and, often, on other categories of purchases.
If you visit the same gas station regularly and you're diligent about paying off your balance monthly, a branded card, which often carries higher interest rates, may work. Often, though, it makes sense to use a card that offers rewards at multiple locations. "I prefer general purpose cards," said Erica Sandberg, editor-at-large for CreditCardGuide.com. "That way, you don't end up with a wallet full of plastic."
CreditCardGuide and other Web sites, like Nerdwallet and CardHub, help keep track of cards offering generous rewards for gas purchases.
One card that crops up frequently is Blue Cash Everyday from American Express, which gives 2 percent back at gas stations. It has no annual fee and offers a $100 bonus for spending $1,000 in the first three months.
Both CreditCardGuide and Nerdwallet like Chase's Freedom card, which offers as much as 5 percent cash back on gas, up to $1,500 in spending -- but only at certain times of the year. Otherwise, you get 1 percent. The 5 percent level is being offered in the current quarter, through the end of March, and then again in the quarter that begins in July, according to the card's Web site.
CardHub cites Pentagon Federal Credit Union's Platinum Cash Rewardscard, which offers 5 percent back for purchases at any station, as long as you pay at the pump. (The card does require a Pen Fed membership. If you don't meet the credit union's eligibility criteria, such as a military affiliation or a job with a qualifying employer, you can still join by making a one-time donation of $15 or $20, respectively, to Voices for America's Troops or the National Military Family Association, nonprofit groups that are advocates for military personnel and their families.)
Another worthwhile offering, according to CardHub, is the TrueEarnings card from Costco and American Express, which gives you 3 percent back on all gas purchases up to $3,000, and 1 percent after that. (Costco members pay no annual card fee.)
CreditDonkey.com, meanwhile, suggests the Discover Open Road card, offering 2 percent back on gas and restaurant spending.
Ms. Sandberg advises reading any card offer carefully before applying. Offer details can change frequently.
Do you use a gas rewards credit card?
An earlier version of this post referred incompletely to the eligibility requirements for the Pentagon Federal Credit Union.

        
Credit Builder Loans Can Help Burnish Your Credit Score
        
FICO Says Hola to Spanish-Speaking Consumers
        
New Rule Requires Fee Disclosure for Overseas Cash Transfers
        
Impatient? It May Be Hurting Your Credit Score
        
A New Credit Report Tracks More of Your Financial Life

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); LOYALTY MARKETING (89%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (86%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); RESTAURANTS (69%); ARMED FORCES (66%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (66%); FAMILY (66%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%) Credit Scores; Credit Cards; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; American Express Company; American Express Company|AXP|NYSE

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (91%); PENTAGON FEDERAL CREDIT UNION (67%)

ORGANIZATION: American Express Company

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (91%) American Express Company; AXP; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (91%); NAICS522130 CREDIT UNIONS (67%); SIC6061 CREDIT UNIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



487 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Mark Bittman)

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Daylight Savings Links

BYLINE: MARK BITTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Read these in sunlight at 6 p.m. while you get ready to complain about the heat. 

 BODY:
Read these in sunlight at 6 p.m. while you get ready to complain about the heat:
Check out the latest updates from the Coalition of Immokalee Workers' Fast for Fair Food.
Under a new U.S.D.A. rule, nutrition labels will be placed on all ground meat and poultry. But why is the U.S.D.A. still buying "pink slime" (a mixture of ground beef scraps and tissue treated with ammonia hydroxide) when even major fast food chains have dropped it?
The Center for Science in the Public Interest released a report linking Coca-Cola, Diet Coke, Pepsi and Diet Pepsi to a chemical that has been known to cause cancer in lab rats and mice. 
Nestl, the world's biggest food company, announced that it has removed all artificial ingredients from the candy it sells in Britain. That means that all the flavors and dyes in its British candy are now derived from so-called "natural" sources. Why only there?
A recent study found strong evidence that communities that rely on big box retailers and large corporate employers are less healthy and have higher rates of obesity and diabetes than those that don't.
Kids are eating an average of 322 calories of added sugar a day (362 for boys and 282 for girls). That's about 16 percent of their daily caloric intake. Probably related: The Times reports that dentists are seeing more preschoolers (of all income levels) with 6 to 10 cavities or more. On the brighter side: California's campaign to curb childhood obesity is kinda working. Also, check out this video from Daniel Klein of kids tasting their first radishes as part of their school garden program.
For Native Americans, the already-urgent national obesity problem is even more dire: American Indian and Alaska Native adults are 1.6 times more likely to be obese than Caucasians, and almost 33 percent of all American Indians and Alaskan Natives are obese. At a meeting of the National Congress of American Indians, Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack announced that 17 tribes will receive additional funding for nutrition education programs this year.
With encouragement from Big Food, the "second breakfast" is catching on: totally unnecessary post-breakfast, pre-lunch snacks including breakfast bars, yogurts and mini-breakfast sandwiches. Also, the food industry continues to resist paying fees that would fund the F.D.A.
More Americans said they struggled to buy food in 2011 than in any year since the financial crisis. Chain restaurants are doing well at the expense of independents.
Mexico City's floating gardens-small artificial islands full of crops and built up on shallow lake beds-once sustained the Aztec capital of Tenochtitlan, producing multiple harvests every year. But today they're threatened by urbanization and could soon disappear. Meanwhile, Seattle residents hope a seven-acre patch of green in the middle of the city will soon become one of the country's largest "food forests."
Wolfgang Puck has written a letter imploring fellow restaurateurs to embrace the coming ban on foie gras.
Last (and potentially least), Sprinkles Cupcakes, a Los Angeles-based cupcake chain, will open 24-hour cupcake A.T.M.s at three Manhattan locations this year.

        
Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About Immokalee, Fla.
        
What if the U.S.D.A Subsidized Gardens?
        
Immokalee, America's Tomato Capital

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FOOD INDUSTRY (91%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); NUTRITION (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OBESITY (89%); FOOD MFG (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (89%); GARDENING (77%); MEATS (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); FAST FOOD (77%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (74%); RODENTS (74%); CONFECTIONERY (73%); SNACK FOODS (73%); MIGRANT WORKERS (72%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (72%); FOOD LABELING (72%); POULTRY (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (71%); CHILDREN (71%); URBANIZATION (70%); RETAILERS (70%); CANCER (69%); EDUCATION FUNDING (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (61%); DIABETES (51%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) childhood obesity; Coalition of Immokalee Workers; Coca-Cola; Daniel Klein; F.D.A.; Foie Gras; National Congress of American Indians; Nestle; Pepsi; pink slime; Seattle; Sprinkles Cupcakes; Tenochtitlan; The Center for Science in the Public Interest; Tom Vilsack; U.S.D.A.; Wolfgang Puck; Puck, Wolfgang; Vilsack, Tom; Children and Childhood; Diet and Nutrition; Migrant and Foreign Workers; Obesity; Agriculture Department; Center for Science in the Public Interest; Coca-Cola Company; Food and Drug Administration; Nestle SA; PepsiCo Inc; Pepsico Inc|PEP|NYSE; Coca-Cola Company|KO|NYSE

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (57%); NESTLE SA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR SCIENCE IN THE PUBLIC INTEREST (91%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (91%); NATIONAL CONGRESS OF AMERICAN INDIANS (59%) Agriculture Department; Center for Science in the Public Interest; Coalition of Immokalee Workers; Coca-Cola Company; Food and Drug Administration; Nestle SA; PepsiCo Inc

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (57%); NESN (SWX) (56%) Pepsico Inc; PEP; NYSE; Pepsico Inc; PEP; NYSE; Coca-Cola Company; KO; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (56%)

PERSON: WOLFGANG PUCK (88%); TOM VILSACK (83%) Puck, Wolfgang; Vilsack, Tom

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



488 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: Springsteen Tops Charts in Britain

BYLINE: JAMES C. MCKINLEY JR.


HIGHLIGHT: It was the ninth time Mr. Springsteen has scored a No. 1 album in Britain, going back to "Born in the U.S.A." in 1984. 

 BODY:
Bruce Springsteen has still got it as far as the British are concerned. His new album, "Wrecking Ball" (Columbia), wasthe top-selling long-play recording in the United Kingdom last week, according to the Official Charts Company. It was the ninth time Mr. Springsteen, 62, has scored a No. 1 album in Britain, going back to "Born in the U.S.A." in 1984.
The latest release is full of protest songs and working-class anthems, inspired by the recession in the United States. Though the themes of income inequality and the loss of the American Dream are familiar ones in Mr. Springsteen's work, his latest effort with the E Street Band features a wider range of sounds and studio concoctionsthan anything he's done in recent years, incorporating rock, Irish folk music, gospel strains and a large New Orleans-style brass section into the mix.
Mr. Springsteen starts a United States tour to promote the album on March 18 in Atlanta. On Friday night, he gave a group of 1,500 invited guests and contest winners an intimate preview of this year's show when he played the Apollo Theater in Harlem to celebrate Sirius XM's 10th anniversary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RECORD RELEASES (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%) Springsteen, Bruce; Music; Apollo Theater; E Street Band; Great Britain

COMPANY: SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (82%) Apollo Theater; E Street Band

TICKER: SIRI (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (55%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (55%)

PERSON: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (94%) Springsteen, Bruce

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (98%); UNITED STATES (93%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



489 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: The Great Gatsby Comes to India

BYLINE: VIVEK DEHEJIA


HIGHLIGHT: Will India's new, celebrated economic mobility last? 

 BODY:
In January, Alan Krueger, chairman of President Barack Obama's Council of Economic Advisers, gave an important policy address in Washington in which he addressed the growing problem of inequality in America, an issue that has come to define the president's re-election campaign.
From Occupy Wall Street to the general loathing of the "1 percent" who've captured the lion's share of economic growth in the past few decades, Americans today increasingly question whether true equality of opportunity - the "American dream'' - is still possible in a land in which social and economic mobility is now more of a pipe dream for those at the bottom.
Mr. Krueger, an economics professor at Princeton University, marshaled a striking piece of evidence that, not just in America but around the world, there's a strong correlation between income inequality and the likelihood of increased socioeconomic stratification in the future, which perpetuates inequality over the generations.
Drawing on work by the Canadian economist Miles Corak, Mr. Krueger has
dubbed this finding the "Great Gatsby curve," taking a leaf from the great American Jazz Age novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald. On the horizontal axis is the country's Gini coefficient, the most commonly used measure of inequality (zero represents perfect equality among a country's citizens, and 1 means, roughly, that one person gets all the money in a society). On the vertical is what labor economists call inter-generational earnings elasticity, or IGE -- roughly a measure of how likely it is that if you're rich (or poor), your kids will be, too. In a society with perfect equality of opportunity, the child of rich parents would have neither a higher nor a lower income than the average, yielding an IGE of zero.)
Each labelled dot represents a country, and the straight line that runs through the figure is the line of best fit: clearly upward-sloping, which tells us that countries which are more unequal in outcome are also more unequal in opportunity. As you would expect, egalitarian Scandinavian countries such as Denmark and Norway are in the lower left corner of the figure, with both low inequality and a low IGE, and some very stratified Latin American countries such as Brazil and Peru are at the upper right corner, with high inequality and a high IGE. The United States falls just about in the middle. 
Mr. Corak, whose work on the IGE is an input into Mr. Krueger's Great Gatsby curve, explained to me via email that he couldn't compute comparable data for India on IGE, which is why we don't appear on the curve. But recent research by the World Bank suggests that India's Gini has been rising steadily, even as extreme poverty drops, and was measured at 0.33 in 2005.
As inequality continues to rise in India, I would conjecture that India today would be close to where the United States appears, around 0.40, although we'll only know for sure when the latest numbers have been crunched.
If India conforms to the "Great Gatsby" curve -- and there's no reason to believe it would be an outlier -- that would mean the country would have an IGE of around 0.4, corresponding to a Gini coefficient of 0.40. This IGE implies that if Indian citizens are earning 50 percent more than the average income today, their children will earn 20 percent more than average in their generation. 
Whether we want to admit or not, the Great Gatsby has, in my judgement, come to India.
It's unlikely that Mr. Krueger was aware of the delicious irony, in an Indian context, of the name he gave the figure. Writers about India are increasingly reaching for America's Jazz Age, or its even earlier Gilded Age, as tropes to help explain India's dizzying mixture of rampant inequality and corruption, marked by the rise of a new class of super-rich entrepreneurs whose wealth - much like that of Fitzgerald's title character - often seems to derive at least as much from proximity to power and shady dealings as it does to hard work and productivity.
So where can the culprits be found for rising inequality, whether in America or in India? Here the tales diverge.
There's an increasing consensus that for the United States and other rich countries, the double whammy of technological change, which favors the educated and skilled, and globalization, which has led to the loss of blue-collar and lower-end white-collar jobs, has taken a heavy toll on the incomes and life prospects of the poor and the lower middle class.
In India, there's heated debate among scholars about whether India's increasing integration into the global economy since the economic liberalization of 1991 has amplified inequality or attenuated it. The impossibility of observing what economists call the counterfactual scenario, that is, what would have happened without globalization, makes it possible for partisans on both the right and the left to stick to their guns.
The truth is surely more nuanced than either ideological extreme would suggest: while some have wildly benefited from the opportunities that participation in the global economy presents, others are, as yet, left out.
For every Jay Gatsby that the "new India" has produced, there are many others for whom the dream is elusive, if not illusory. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); EVIDENCE (54%) Fitzgerald, F Scott; Krueger, Alan B; Obama, Barack; Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market; Labor and Jobs; Princeton University; White House Council of Economic Advisers; World Bank; India; United States

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (93%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%) Princeton University; White House Council of Economic Advisers; World Bank

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%) Fitzgerald, F Scott; Krueger, Alan B; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); INDIA (95%); PERU (79%); BRAZIL (79%); NORWAY (79%); ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); DENMARK (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (67%) India; United States

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



490 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Sears, Once Outfitter of Westward Expansion, Now Stocks Saris

BYLINE: ANKITA RAO


HIGHLIGHT: Retailer has more than 200 saris from India in stock. 

 BODY:
Long before chants of "think global, buy local" hit the airwaves, Richard Warren Sears and Alvah C. Roebuck created America's first major mail-order catalog store, Sears, Roebuck & Co. by shipping goods from Chicago to rural America in the late 1800s. Farmers rejoiced as their sewing machines and flour arrived for half the price offered by small town merchants.
Almost a century and a half later, Sears seems to be putting down new roots. Amid the blenders, brake pads and treadmills on its Web site, the company now offers a collection of South Indian saris.
The Sears women's dress section features about 200 styles of polyester and silk saris priced between $50 and $150 with names like "Black Art Silk" and "Bellydance." Some mimic the South Indian Kanchivaram look associated with temples and wedding ceremonies, while others, with large floral prints, can only be described as retro. Like a store-bought sari, the fabric comes with extra material to cut and tailor into a blouse.
While Indians make up one of the wealthiest ethnic groups in the United States, and non-Indian designers and celebrities flaunt saris on occasion, the collection seems to have come about partially by accident.
Last spring, Sears approached Anurag M., the chief executive of the New York textile company Indian Selections, to order home furnishings. Mr. M, who does not use his full surname, took the opportunity to expand the partnership to his clothing line, which is made by hand and machine throughout India, and shipped from Nagpur, Maharashtra state, to Rego Park, New York.
"I was surprised it worked," he said of Sears' response. "But I think all online sales will continue to grow as vendors provide good return policies."
A Sears representative said the offering is a direct result of customer demand, and a reflection of the company's clientele, but did not provide more details about sales.
Mr. M estimates 20 percent of the customers for his saris are people of Indian origin living in the United States. Other important buyers, he said, are non ethnic Indians who might be looking for something to wear to a wedding or to meet Indian in-laws.
Sears is probably attracting a cross-section of Indians living in small town America, and non-Indian women who are looking for new trends, said Gunjun Bagla, managing director of Amritt Ventures, a consulting firm that works with Indian and American companies.
"It is a substantial enough niche market for Sears," Mr. Bagla said.
So far, the new venture has not translated into standout numbers for Indian Selections, and the partnership has proven less lucrative than the company's eBay store and own Web site, which have remained stable through the recession. Nor has it significantly helped financially troubled Sears, which has announced plans to close between 100 and 120 stores this year.
Mr. Bagla predicts the Sears line will have little impact on the larger industry, including the online traders and Indian manufacturers, who still rely on weavers and artisans in cities like Banaras. But he sees a future in the United States for the garment itself.
"The sari is creating an interesting part of the repertoire of the American women, whether it's Lady Gaga or Naomi Campbell wearing it," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (90%); TEXTILES (77%); FABRICS (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); INTERNET RETAILING (76%); CLOTHING LABELS (75%); FASHION & APPAREL (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (74%); CLOSINGS (72%); TRENDS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); WEB SITES (70%); ETHNIC GROUPS (66%); ETHNICITY (66%); SALES PROJECTIONS (63%) Fashion and Apparel; Indian-Americans; Shopping and Retail; Sears, Roebuck & Co; United States

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Sears, Roebuck & Co

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST INDIA (79%); MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (57%) UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (94%); ASIA (54%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



491 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Europe Must Defend Itself

BYLINE: BRIGITTE ADS


HIGHLIGHT: Guest commentator Brigitte Ad&#232;s writes that with the U.S. cutting nearly a half-trillion dollars in defense spending over ten years, Europe and NATO must evolve. The question is, are they ready? 

 BODY:
After President Barack Obama's announcement this year of significant changes to the U.S. defense strategy, the world has mostly focused on the shift toward Asia and the Pacific. However. this is only one aspect of the new U.S. posture. It also has a great impact from a European defense point of view, as senior American strategists and NATO officials told me during the meeting of NATO defense ministers in Brussels last month. 
In the Pentagon's new "Strategic Guidance," released in January, the ability to conduct two simultaneous and prolonged wars - one of the constants of American military doctrine since the end of World War II - is being discarded. This has a particular significance for the United States' NATO partners: if the U.S. is involved in a conflict, it will need to call in allies if it wants to wage a second war. 
This official text indicates a willingness to downgrade the doctrines of counterinsurgency (COIN) used in Afghanistan and in Iraq. As we know, this strategy of long-term commitment of troops on the ground has had mixed results and certainly didn't win the hearts and minds of local populations, as the Americans expected. This change is bound to be welcomed by the British and the French, also involved in Afghanistan, but aware from past experience of the difficulties linked to counterinsurgencies. 
Since 1963, the French political establishment has turned away from "counterinsurgency" as a war-winning strategy. It is therefore ironic that until recently the U.S. military academies extensively taught the precepts of a French officer, David Galula, whose guidelines despite initial success in the 1950s in Algeria, were not followed by the French, but whom General David Petraeus, formerly Commander of the United States Central Command, called "the Clausewitz of counterinsurgency". 
From now on, the Pentagon will favor "high impact and low footprint" operations. To this end, the American military says it is prepared to encourage U.S. allies to share capabilities and interoperability for coalition operations. In this context, the success of the Franco-British intervention in Libya, proving that the Europeans can efficiently lead a light operation, is bound to comfort the Americans. The Americans preferred to exercise "leadership from behind" in the conflict in Libya and provided the necessary logistics, including 70 percent of the air power. 
With the Pentagon budget being cut to save $487 billion over the next decade, the United States has announced its intention to reduce the presence of American troops in Europe, including removing two of four combat brigades, and replacing them with rotating forces. This will undoubtedly worry some European countries close to Russia, including the Baltic States.
But among the Western allies, the French and the British have long anticipated a withdrawal of U.S. troops and have been more forward than most in their attempts to promote the idea of a European defense, as evidenced by the Franco-British agreement signed in Lancaster in November 2010. Nevertheless, looking at the agreement closely, the content seems motivated by budgetary constraints rather than by a genuine desire to build an independent European defense. Against the backdrop of severe economic crisis, it is unlikely that Europeans will accelerate the building of a common defense. And NATO will therefore remain Europe's primary defense organization in the years to come.
Senior NATO officials confirmed to me their intention to adapt to the new American policy, and to the changing world, with a more flexible approach. They say they look forward to new, more flexible partnerships within NATO and even with outside partners, adapted to new challenges, such as cyber warfare, environmental crisis and energy security.
In a briefing with defense editors in Brussels, a NATO officer said : "We are already engaged in military counter piracy in the Indian Ocean, and we intent to be forward looking and contribute to the flow of vital resources securing commercial routes. We are also ready to envisage punctual operations in the Asia Pacific region." 
He explained that Australia's forces engaged in Afghanistan were greater in number than those of many NATO members. "Afghanistan has served as a catalyst," he added. "It has set up a new culture. We must keep working on the links which have been made through joint operations so far. We must invest in permanent ties by having global partners such as Australia, Japan. South Korea, India and even China. We are connecting NATO to the global landscape."
In the "Strategic Guidance,'' the Pentagon was sure to repeat Article 5, the anchor of NATO, stipulating that an armed attack against one member of the alliance is an attack against all members. 

        
Afghanistan: When Even the Danes Turn on the War...
        
No Easy Exit From Afghanistan
        
Sorry Seems to Be the Hardest Word
        
Damage Control (Again) in Afghanistan
        
Excitable Boy, They All Said

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); WORLD WAR II (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (70%); BUDGET CUTS (60%) military; NATO; Pentagon; Defense and Military Forces; United States Defense and Military Forces; North Atlantic Treaty Organization; Europe; View From Europe

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%) North Atlantic Treaty Organization

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); DAVID PETRAEUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); BELGIUM (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ASIA (92%); FRANCE (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (91%); ALGERIA (79%); IRAQ (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



492 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: State of Utah Says It Is a Happy Backer of 'John Carter'

BYLINE: MICHAEL CIEPLY


HIGHLIGHT: The Disney film may be a commercial flop, but Utah's economic development office said the state's incentives for filming there had already paid off in increased tourism. 

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES - Nothing highlights the economic puzzlement of state-supported filmmaking like a good, old-fashioned megaflop. This morning's example: Walt Disney's "John Carter."
For Disney, the film is a disaster. It cost an estimated $350 million to make and market, took in just $30.6 million at the domestic box office over the weekend, and has analysts predicting a write-down in the range of $100 million to $165 million.
But state officials in Utah, which helped pay for the sci-fi turkey with a generous incentives program, have declared the movie a triumph. In a news release accompanying the film's opening, Utah's economic development staff said "John Carter" was sure to "create interest in the state as a tourism destination,"and had already brought $20 million in economic benefit and 275 jobs during its filming in 2010.
Utah's announcement did not say precisely how much the state contributed to the cost of Disney's failed adventure to the Red Planet. But it pointed out that Utah's film incentives - one of many programs under which states contribute to the making of feature films - pays studios a tax credit or cash rebate that can equal 25 percent of the money "left in the state" by a production.
"Disney has been showcasing Utah scenery in promotions with the movie in theaters in the United Kingdom, and our travel trade team is in Berlin promoting 'John Carter' and Utah at" a trade show, said Leigh von der Esch, managing director of the Utah Office of Tourism and Film, in the Monday announcement.
Good, bad or indifferent, in fact, the state can hardly wait to ante up again. "We are looking forward to the next Disney production that will come our way this summer with the filming of 'The Lone Ranger' in Utah and surrounding western states," said Marshall Moore, director of the Utah Film Commission.

        
In Filings, Disney Rebuffs Criticism of Shareholders Advisory Service
        
Deal Puts Mickey Mouse and Spielberg on Chinese Screens
        
Theme Park Income Spurs Profits at Disney
        
Univision and Disney in Talks for an English-Language News Channel
        
At 'Upfronts' for Children's TV, It's Viacom vs. Surging Disney

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); FILM (90%); TOURISM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE FILMING (89%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (75%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (74%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (74%); LEISURE TRAVEL (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TRADE SHOWS (64%); SALES REBATES (55%) "John Carter"; The Walt Disney Company; Utah; Disney, Walt, World; John Carter (Movie); Movies

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (84%); VIACOM INC (51%); CHILDREN'S TELEVISION WORKSHOP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Disney, Walt, World

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (84%); VIA (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (84%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (84%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (51%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) UTAH, USA (99%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (53%) Utah

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



493 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: New York Is World's Top City to Do Business, Study Finds

BYLINE: PATRICK MCGEEHAN


HIGHLIGHT: A survey commissioned by Citigroup placed New York highest over all, and in economic strength, the only Western city in the top 15. 

 BODY:
Anybody who has tried to hail a cab in Midtown during a rainstorm will not be surprised by the results of a survey released on Monday that ranked New York City as the most competitive city in the world.
But in the context of the report, that was intended as a compliment. Citigroup, which has its headquarters on Park Avenue, commissioned the Economist Intelligence Unit (a subsidiary of the company that puts out the magazine The Economist) to compare 120 cities around the globe on a set of measures of their standing as places to do business.
New York ranked above London, Singapore, Paris and Hong Kong - the rest of the top five - largely on the basis of its No. 4 placing on economic strength, which included the growth rate of its economy. Another important criterion was the size of its middle class, which was defined as the share of households whose annual consumption exceeded $14,000. (Even a New Yorker living alone on the maximum weekly unemployment benefit of $405 a week could qualify as middle-class.)
New York was not only the sole American city but the only Western city to rank among the top 15 in economic strength. Eleven of the others are in China. Los Angeles ranked 17th. 
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg took some of the credit for the results. "New York City's position at the very top of this list is no accident," he said in a statement. "It's due to the investments our administration has made and the world-famous ingenuity and creativity of New Yorkers."
Economic strength carried more weight than the other components of the index, which were chosen to measure cities' ability to attract businesses, capital, workers and tourists. New York also ranked at or near the top on financial maturity and social and cultural character.
But on its global appeal, New York ranked eighth, far behind London and Paris. And on the quality of its physical infrastructure and its telecommunications network, New York ranked 28th, behind much smaller cities, like Hamburg, Geneva, Boston and Washington.
No attempt was made to determine where it is easiest to catch a cab in the rain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); TRENDS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); CITIES (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%) Bloomberg, Michael R; Economic Conditions and Trends; Citigroup Inc; Economist Intelligence Unit; New York City; Citigroup Inc|C|NYSE; Housing & Economy

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc; Economist Intelligence Unit

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%) Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (77%) Bloomberg, Michael R

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (87%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (87%); CHINA (79%); HONG KONG (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



494 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: A Little-Known Guest Arrives to Make an Impression

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH

 BODY:
As the Boston Symphony Orchestra enters a second year without a music director, a parade of guest conductors continues to cross its podium. Some are legitimate candidates to succeed James Levine, who resigned last March, though two heavyweight contenders had to cancel appearances with the orchestra this season: Riccardo Chailly, for health reasons, and Andris Nelsons, for the birth of his baby. 
The conductors of the first two of the orchestra's three concerts at Carnegie Hall last week, John Oliver and Christoph Eschenbach, have no chance. Among other reasons, both are 72, and the post-Levine Boston Symphony has every reason to look for someone young and vital.
But Stephane Deneve, the 40-year-old French maestro who conducted the Friday evening concert, must be considered at least a long shot. Though still relatively little known in America, Mr. Deneve is chief conductor of the Stuttgart Radio Symphony Orchestra and music director of the Royal Scottish National Orchestra, and he made a mostly favorable impression here.
In his hands, Ravel's ''Ma Mere l'Oye'' (''Mother Goose'') shows what a great French orchestra Boston can still be, a half-century after the directorship of Charles Munch. Wisely, Mr. Deneve played just the five movements originally written for piano duo, not the interstitial material added to the orchestration for ballet, which undercuts the work's essential economy.
Tempos were a little logy, but the sonorities were gorgeous, especially in the strings, and the proportions were elegant. Mr. Deneve held the end of the finale, ''The Fairy Garden,'' which can so easily be overblown, in good restraint.
Next came Stravinsky's quirky Concerto for Piano and Winds (and double basses), hardly less French in spirit. Written in the composer's Neo-Classical mode and teeming with well-behaved dissonances, the work had its premiere in Paris in 1924, a year after the Paris premiere of Milhaud's jazz-inflected ballet score ''The Creation of the World,'' and some funky harmonies in Stravinsky's central Largo closely resemble Milhaud's.
Mr. Deneve and the pianist Peter Serkin achieved a fine balance, though in truth, Stravinsky deploys pianist and orchestra as much in alternation as together. Mr. Serkin conveyed well his part's manic energy and angularity.
Mr. Deneve seemed less fully at home in the moodier parts of Shostakovich's Fifth Symphony. Whether you buy the work's ostensible triumphalism or sense an underlying sarcasm, there is no denying (at least since Leonard Bernstein made it clear) the sense of foreboding in the slow, murky sections of the opening movement.
Mr. Deneve seemed to find little mystery there, raising fears for what might come (or not) in the third-movement Largo, but by then he seemed more attuned to the work's ebb and flow. And he fully captured the dynamism of the Allegretto and the finale.
The orchestra played well for him everywhere. Malcolm Lowe, the concertmaster, provided excellent solos, as did the woodwind principals, especially the clarinetist William R. Hudgins.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Boston Symphony Orchestra: Stephane Deneve conducted the ensemble at Carnegie Hall, one of the orchestra's three concerts there last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (92%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



495 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
HAGUE COURT TO SET SITE
FOR FORMER DICTATOR'S TRIAL
International judges in The Hague are hearing a complex case that boils down to a single question: which country has the right to try Hissene Habre, the former president of Chad, who has been indicted in two nations on charges of political killings, torture and a host of other brutalities. Page A4
BRITAIN'S EUTHANASIA RULING 
A British stroke victim paralyzed from the neck down and suffering from so-called locked-in syndrome won the right on Monday to seek changes in a law that would enable a doctor to end what he has called ''intolerable life'' without risking murder charges. Page A4
CALL TO END TRADE SANCTIONS
Prominent organizers of antigovernment demonstrations in Moscow urged the United States Congress to end cold war-era trade restrictions against Russia, saying that leaving them in place would only help President-elect Vladimir V. Putin. Page A5
SAVING LIVES IN SYRIA
At the age of 71, Dr. Jacques Beres, a veteran of war zones, left his comfortable Paris life last month to smuggle himself into Homs, the center of the Syrian revolt, to tend to the wounded and the sick. Page A6
RAILWAY COLLAPSES IN CHINA
China's troubled state-run rail system suffered another setback with news reports that a section of railway that already had undergone test runs has collapsed. According to the official Xinhua news agency, the collapse was possibly a result of heavy rains. Page A7
OPPOSITION AGAINST STRIKE
Britain will add its voice to President Obama's in discouraging an Israeli military strike on Iran when Prime Minister David Cameron begins a three-day visit to Washington this week, a senior British diplomat said. Page A9
National
U.S. BLOCKS TEXAS LAW
ON PHOTO ID FOR VOTING
The Justice Department's civil rights division on Monday blocked Texas from enforcing a new law requiring voters to present photo identification at the polls, contending that the law would disproportionately suppress turnout among eligible Hispanic voters. Page A14
HOPE FOR OPEN CONVENTION
Rick Santorum's campaign has begun to argue forcefully that Mitt Romney will fail to win the 1,144 delegates needed to clinch the Republican nomination for president, leaving the decision to a wide-open national convention in Tampa, Fla., this summer. Page A14
ACCOMPLICE TO PLEAD GUILTY
Catherine Greig, the companion of the purported Boston mobster James (Whitey) Bulger, is expected to plead guilty to charges that she helped Mr. Bulger evade capture for 16 years, according to relatives of murder victims in Mr. Bulger's cases. Page A12
Obituaries
FRISNER AUGUSTIN, 63
A Haitian voodoo master drummer, Frisner Augustin's deep knowledge of traditional rhythms and leadership of the Brooklyn-based Troupe Makandal made him a major force in preserving and popularizing his Afro-Haitian heritage. Page A17
New York
AT J.F.K., SEEING FUTURE
IN IMPORTS AND EXPORTS
The cargo warehouse for American Airlines at Kennedy International Airport processes a million pounds of imports and exports every day, offering a preview of areas as varied as fashions or economic trends. Page A18
Business
TRADE TENSIONS WITH CHINA
BEGIN TO HEAT UP AGAIN
A month after Vice President Xi Jinping's visit to the United States and Europe, the brief trade policy detente between China and its two biggest export markets is about to end. Page B1
GOOGLE'S NEW COLLABORATION
Google plans to announce that it is forming a partnership with a museum in Mons, Belgium, dedicated to a long-ago venture to compile and index knowledge in a giant, library-style card catalog with millions of entries -- an analog-era equivalent of a search engine or Wikipedia. Page B3
OPTING FOR GENERIC BRAND
India's government authorized a drug manufacturer to make and sell a generic copy of a patented Bayer cancer drug, saying that Bayer charged a price that was unaffordable to most of the nation. Page B2
Sports
WASHINGTON AND DALLAS
WILL BE PENALIZED ON CAP
The Washington Redskins and the Dallas Cowboys will each be docked millions of dollars in salary cap space -- $36 million for the Redskins, $10 million for the Cowboys -- because they dumped salaries in 2010, when the league operated without a salary cap after the collective bargaining agreement expired. Page B13
Arts
NBC BRINGS 'COMMUNITY'
BACK TO ITS PASSIONATE FANS
The NBC comedy ''Community,'' a collage of pop-culture references and elaborate, inventive parodies involving a group of likable misfit students at a community college, returns, much to the relief of one of the most passionate fan bases in television. Page C1
Science
SMALL-PICTURE APPROACH
FLIPS MEDICAL ECONOMICS
Accountable care organizations, a new kind of health care practice, are gaining momentum in part because of the Affordable Care Act signed into law two years ago. Page D1
Op-Ed
Frank Bruni PAGE A21
Joe Nocera PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PARALYSIS (90%); MURDER (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); INDICTMENTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); COLD WAR (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); SMUGGLING (72%); STROKES (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%); MITT ROMNEY (57%); DAVID CAMERON (56%); RICK SANTORUM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (88%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%) TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHAD (92%); CHINA (92%); SYRIA (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



496 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: Dream Act for New York

 BODY:
The Dream Act is an aptly named-but-star-crossed piece of federal legislation that would open a path to legal status for young unauthorized immigrants who pursue college degrees or serve in the military. Its goal is to help ambitious youths who were brought here as children and are American in all but the paperwork. 
But, since the bill has been stalled in Congress, some states have found a way to help these blameless young people. Though they cannot fix anyone's visa problems, some states have passed their own versions of the Dream Act to make college more affordable to undocumented students. Thirteen, including New York, allow the undocumented to qualify for in-state tuition rates. Only three -- Texas, New Mexico and California -- allow them to receive government tuition aid.
New York should become the fourth. It has long been a global beacon for immigrants and a leader in higher education. One bill in the Legislature would make undocumented students eligible for the state's Tuition Assistance Program; another would provide aid through a fund with private donations.
Yet Gov. Andrew Cuomo, who should be leading this effort, has been on the sidelines, studying the legislation. It's hard to see why Mr. Cuomo should be hesitant to support these measures. It shouldn't be the expense; a new study by the Fiscal Policy Institute found that the Dream Act would add roughly $17 million, or only 2 percent, to the cost of the Tuition Assistance Program. Students with college degrees make a state more attractive to businesses, earn more and pay more in taxes. Giving a boost to the dreams of undocumented young people is not only the decent thing to do, it's also a wise investment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



497 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Slowdown in China Weighs on Wall St.

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks were mixed on Monday in light trading as investors weighed whether an economic slowdown in China could lead to an easing of monetary policy.
Commodities slipped, which helped bring down stock in Newmont Mining and Schlumberger by more than 1.9 percent. Investors were concerned about how banks would perform in Federal Reserve stress tests, and the cost of insuring against default on European sovereign bonds rose to the highest in eight weeks -- news that helped bring down financial stocks.
Gauges of utility and telephone providers in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which are least tied to economic growth, gained. Apple shares rose 1.3 percent. 
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced 0.22 point, or 0.02 percent, to 1,371.09. The Dow Jones industrial average increased 37.69 points, or 0.29 percent, to 12,959.71. The Nasdaq composite index fell 4.68 points, or 0.16 percent, to 2,983.66.
''The U.S. is in good shape, yet China is a big question mark,'' said Erick F. Maronak, chief investment officer of Victory Capital Management in New York. ''How much will they have to ease to get things back on track? Europe is still going to be a huge work in progress. Now that there's some greater visibility on the Greece situation, everyone starts looking at Dominoes 2 and 3.''
The S.& P. 500 has advanced 2.1 percent in the last four weeks on better-than-expected economic data and as companies beat analysts' profit forecasts for a 12th straight quarter. The benchmark gauge is up 9 percent this year.
Equities swung between gains and losses after China reported its biggest trade deficit in at least 22 years. Also weighing on results was the weakest January-February factory-production gain since 2009, and retail sales below the median of economists' estimates.
Gauges of energy and raw material shares in the S.& P. 500 fell as the S.& P. GSCI index of 24 commodities dropped 0.4 percent. Shares of Newmont Mining, the largest gold producer in the United States, slid 2 percent to $55.75. Stock in Schlumberger, the world's largest oil field services provider, declined 2.4 percent to $74.02.
''Some people are pointing to the evidence of slower growth in China as the catalyst for today's weakness,'' said Mike Ryan, the chief investment strategist at UBS Wealth Management Americas in New York. ''Incremental demand for commodities still largely comes from Asia. The central banks are not going to be providing as much liquidity as they had in the past.''
The KBW Bank Index lost 0.7 percent as 17 of its 24 stocks retreated. JPMorgan Chase shares slid 1.2 percent to $40.54. Regions Financial stock slumped 2.9 percent to $5.63.
''The concern is that while banks may not have to raise capital, they might not be able to return capital as fast as shareholders want,'' said Walter Todd, chief investment officer at Greenwood Capital in Greenwood, S.C.
Stock in Oracle, the software maker, slipped 1.4 percent to $29.71.
Companies least dependent on economic activity rose. Shares of the Constellation Energy Group increased 3 percent to $37.23. Wal-Mart Stores added 1 percent to $60.68. Apple stock rose 1.3 percent to $552, a record high.
Harley-Davidson gained 2.6 percent, to $48.11, after Citigroup said the company's retail sales had risen 16 percent to 18 percent so far in the first quarter and raised its share price estimate on the company to $50, from $46.
Interest rates were steady. The Treasury's 10-year note fell 2/32, to 99 22/32, and the yield rose to 2.04 percent, from 2.03 percent late Friday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); BONDS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); RETAIL SALES (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (58%); VICTORY CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (55%); UBS WEALTH MANAGEMENT (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); NEM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (58%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (58%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6091 NONDEPOSIT TRUST FACILITIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); GREECE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



498 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE NEW ISLAMISTS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: An Islamist Stakes Out Liberal Ground in Egypt's Presidential Race

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Mayy el Sheikh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
CAIRO -- Rabab El Mahdi is an unlikely adviser for an Islamist presidential campaign. A 37-year-old Marxist and feminist with cascading waves of unveiled dark hair, she was a political science professor at Yale before she returned last summer to rejoin Egypt's revolution.
But as the first credibly contested presidential race in Egyptian history officially opens this week, Ms. Mahdi is pinning her hopes on Abdel Moneim Aboul Fotouh, an Islamist stalwart who used to be a popular leader with the Muslim Brotherhood. In the topsy-turvy politics of the Arab Spring, Mr. Aboul Fotouh is now the leading liberal in the race.
''I felt Egypt needs to hear the core ideas of the left, but through an Islamist voice so it does not sound so alien,'' Ms. Mahdi said in explaining her support for Mr. Aboul Fotouh. 
The success or failure of Mr. Aboul Fotouh's campaign is a pivotal unknown at the start of an unpredictable three-month race that promises to be the first broad public debate over Egypt's future. All agree that economic revival and public security are the most salient issues. But the campaign is also shaping up to be the first national conversation about the balance of free trade and big government, the application of Islamic law, the status of women and Christians, and relations with the United States and Israel.
Most politicians and observers consider Mr. Aboul Fotouh, 60, to be the leading rival to the acknowledged front-runner, Amr Moussa, a charismatic veteran of the Egyptian political scene.
Polling is scarce, and in the two days since candidate registration forms were released, more than 300 people have sought them. But most of the serious contenders represent familiar political types here: an old-school ultraconservative Islamist, a Nasserite populist-socialist, and a former air force general and airlines executive who was Mr. Mubarak's last prime minister and represents the old government's neoliberal and military elite.
Then there is the silent but inescapable presence of the Muslim Brotherhood, the mainstream Islamist group whose political party won nearly 50 percent of the parliamentary vote.
The Brotherhood pledged soon after Mr. Mubarak's overthrow that it would not field a presidential candidate for fear of provoking the kind of military backlash that happened in Algeria after Islamists won elections there 20 years ago and that led to civil war. But these days, Egyptian politics buzzes with rumors about which outside candidate the Brotherhood might endorse or oppose.
The Egyptian military rulers who took power on Mr. Mubarak's overthrow say the presidential election will be their finale. The first round of voting is scheduled for May 23 and 24, with a runoff on June 16 and 17 and a winner to be declared by June 21. That is when the generals have promised to hand over power.
But, intentionally or not, the military-led transitional government has already tilted the playing field in favor of the best-known candidates -- which in practice means Mr. Moussa.
The military has preserved the cumbersome Mubarak-era election rules that hindered potential challengers. A compressed schedule, convoluted financing rules and strict spending limits all make it hard for newcomers to reach voters. Even getting on the ballot is a significant obstacle: the easiest way is to win the endorsement of one of the handful of parties in Parliament or at least 30 of the roughly 500 lawmakers. Alternately, a candidate has to get a total of 30,000 citizens from 15 provinces to fill out an elaborate form during business hours in various central administrative offices -- all in less than a month.
Only the campaign of Mr. Moussa, who is far ahead in name recognition, is happy with the rules. Mr. Moussa, who is 75, spent a decade in the 1990s as Mr. Mubarak's foreign minister, during which time he conducted a legendary televised debate with his Israeli counterpart that made him a national hero. In 2001, he even inspired a popular song, ''I Hate Israel and I Love Amr Moussa.''
That is when Mr. Mubarak moved Mr. Moussa to the less-threatening but still highly visible role of secretary general of the all-but-dormant Arab League, where he stayed until he quit to run for president.
Despite the song, however, Mr. Moussa is not expected to shake up the Egyptian government or its relations with Israel. He has sought to stake out the political center without spelling out specifics or offending powerful interests, including either the military or the Islamists.
Political activists, though, despise him as a conservative Mubarak-era holdover -- an image his campaign acknowledges may be his biggest challenge.
''The question is not, 'Was he part of the previous regime?' Yes, absolutely, he was,'' said Hisham Youssef, a senior adviser. ''But the question should be about his performance. Was he inferior or superior to those who preceded and succeeded him? Was he corrupt, or an honest politician?''
Mr. Aboul Fotouh, a trained physician, is not as well known outside Islamist or political circles. He first came to national attention as a student at Cairo University, after a public forum with President Anwar el Sadat. He challenged the president over the removal of an Islamist sheik from a major mosque, telling the president that he was surrounded by ''sycophants'' and ''hypocrites.''
''Stand right there, stop,'' Mr. Sadat shouted.
''I am standing, sir,'' Mr. Aboul Fotouh replied evenly.
Many had gone to prison for less, and Mr. Aboul Fotouh's defiance became legendary. Recordings of the exchange still circulate on the Internet.
He was later elected to lead the doctors' trade group -- a Brotherhood stronghold. He spent more than six years in jail for his work with the group, then the principal opposition to the Egyptian dictatorship. But he also became outspoken as an internal advocate of liberalization.
In 2007, Mr. Aboul Fotouh took the moderates' side in a debate over whether the Brotherhood should seek to bar women or non-Muslims from the presidency, or to form a council of religious scholars to vet new legislation. Two years later, in a purge of moderates, he was removed from the group's ruling Guidance Council. Last year, he was expelled from the Brotherhood for defying its orders not to run for president.
His advisers say that many Muslim Brotherhood members -- especially its youth -- still support him, and he has won the endorsement of some prominent religious scholars, including Sheik Yusuf al-Qaradawi, an influential cleric living in exile in Doha, Qatar.
Mr. Aboul Fotouh argues in television interviews -- a staple of his campaign -- that the Brotherhood should stop calling itself Islamist and merely say it is conservative, since in an open society Islamists can be moderate or liberal. When asked about Islamic law, he talks about protecting individual freedoms.
Of all the presidential contenders, Mr. Aboul Fotouh has been the most outspoken about full civilian control of the military, the protection of civil liberties and government spending on health care and education. His biggest challenge, his advisers say, is the opposition of his former colleagues in the Muslim Brotherhood. Its spokesman, Mahmoud Ghozlan, declared this week that the group would expel any member who supported Mr. Aboul Fotouh.
''Dr. Aboul Fotouh is very dangerous for them -- a matter of life and death,'' Ms. Mahdi said. ''If he succeeds, it means the Brotherhood loses its monopoly on moderate Islam. It shows that there is a multiplicity in Islam big enough to include Marxists and liberals. It tells their moderates that you can leave the Brotherhood and it is not the end of life.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (89%); 2011 EGYPTIAN PROTESTS (79%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); WOMEN (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); CIVIL WAR (76%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); ARMED FORCES (67%); AIR FORCES (64%); AIRLINES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (74%) EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); ALGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



499 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: Feeling Solyndra's Chill

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
More than $16 billion in loans authorized five years ago by Congress to develop fuel-efficient vehicles has yet to be disbursed, with applicants for the money complaining that the Energy Department is crippling plans for greener cars and trucks at a time of rising gas prices.
Some companies contend that the loans, administered by energy officials, have dried up because of a political firestorm that followed the bankruptcy last year of the solar panel company Solyndra, which had received a federal loan from a related program. The bankruptcy fed Republican criticism of the Obama administration's handling of clean energy loans because one of the investors in Solyndra was a major fund-raiser for the president.
''Since Solyndra became politicized last fall, the Department of Energy has failed to make any other loans,'' said William Santana Li, chief executive of Carbon Motors, which on Wednesday dropped its $310 million application to build police cars with diesel engines that use 40 percent less fuel than current models.
Echoing other companies that were denied loans or have withdrawn their applications, Mr. Li said that in recent months federal officials had repeatedly altered the terms of the possible loans. Last month, Chrysler withdrew its application for $3.5 billion in loans -- after three years of negotiations -- because the government kept raising the amount of collateral required, company officials said. 
''I don't want any favors,'' Sergio Marchionne, the Chrysler chief executive, said before the withdrawal. ''I just don't want to be mistreated.''
Energy Department officials declined to discuss specific loan requests because of confidentiality agreements, but they denied that the political fallout of Solyndra's bankruptcy was an issue.
''It's not unusual for terms to continually shift and change and evolve as a negotiation moves forward,'' said Damien LaVera, a department spokesman. ''It's a constantly evolving process from the day they apply to the day they close their loans.''
Supporters of the program have expressed disappointment with the rash of withdrawals.
''It's unfortunate that more companies have not been approved recently,'' said Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan. ''We are looking at options to ensure that the initiative will continue to help manufacturers create advanced technology jobs in America.''
Applicants for the loans, big and small, said the department had inexplicably altered financial terms of pending loans with no earlier hint that the applications might be in jeopardy. The consequences have been dire for Bright Automotive, a start-up in Michigan that withdrew its application last month. It is shutting down operations to produce a plug-in hybrid delivery van after energy officials suddenly demanded that the company raise $345 million in private funds for a project that needed a $314 million loan.
Company executives said that federal officials told them that they were impressed with the Bright van, but often talked about how the Energy Department could not risk ''another Solyndra situation.'' Solyndra ceased operations last August but it was evident to the Energy Department some months earlier that the company was in trouble; in May 2010, some White House officials were concerned that the company might not survive.
The auto loan fund, known as the Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturing program, or A.T.V.M., was created in 2007 in conjunction with new federal fuel economy requirements. The intent was for loans to spur development of vehicles that would get 20 percent improvements in gas mileage over models they replaced. Since then, the program has become all the more relevant because fuel-efficiency rules were increased even further in 2011 to a target of 54 miles per gallon by 2025.
Even with President Obama's emphasis on promoting cleaner cars, only $8.4 billion of the $25 billion authorized by Congress for the A.T.V.M. program has been allocated, with just one small project of $50 million gaining approval in the last two years. With the recent withdrawals of applications, it is unclear whether any car loan applications are still being considered.
The biggest loans so far went to Ford and Nissan for electric-car projects. When Chrysler tried to tap into some of the same money, the delays became so frustrating that its chief executive, Mr. Marchionne, went to Washington in January for an unusual one-on-one meeting with the energy secretary, Steven Chu.
''Can you just give us a decision, yes or no?'' he asked Mr. Chu, according to company officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to comment on the talks.
But Mr. Chu refused to be pinned down, these people said, and last month, Chrysler withdrew its application. Mr. Marchionne said his company was being forced to meet stiffer requirements for loans. ''The D.O.E.'s proposed terms were very restrictive,'' a Chrysler official said.
A senior adviser to Mr. Chu, Richard L. Kauffman, acknowledged that some applicants had lost patience with the government's scrutiny of their finances and business plans.
''It's a very extensive due diligence process, maybe to the point of irritation,'' Mr. Kauffman said. ''We're trying to protect the taxpayer.''
In fact, there has been some debate about at least one of the auto loan recipients, Fisker Automotive.
A high-end electric-car maker, Fisker stopped construction in February at a Delaware plant it bought from General Motors after the Energy Department blocked the company from using a portion of its $529 million loan. Fisker had missed certain deadlines it had agreed to when it was awarded its loan in April 2010. The company has drawn $193 million on its loan so far.
The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is expected on Tuesday to discuss the clean energy loan efforts, including both the auto loan program and the related renewable energy loan program, which provided the money for Solyndra. A White House audit of the two programs, released last month, suggested they needed more rigorous financial oversight and stricter performance standards, but it did not find greater risk of losses or default than anticipated by Congress in 2007.
In the meantime, the 60 employees of one of the recent losers, Bright Automotive, have been packing up their offices in a former Chrysler customer call center in suburban Detroit.
Bright's chief operating officer, Michael F. Donoughe, said investors had spent ''upwards of $25 million'' and almost three years trying to get the company started.
Their plan was to build hybrid gas-electric delivery vans that would get 85 m.p.g. The company had secured General Motors as an investor and parts supplier, and contracted to manufacture the vans in an Indiana factory owned by AM General, the maker of Humvee military vehicles.
Mr. Donoughe said his company planned to hire more than 600 production workers and eventually build 50,000 Bright ''Idea'' vans annually. ''This vehicle can operate on two gallons of gas a day, versus 10 gallons for a conventional full-size van,'' he said.
Bright lowered its loan request to $314 million, from $450 million, and last summer agreed to raise private equity equal to 70 percent of the loan amount as assurance that the company would succeed.
When federal officials and consultants later wanted an equity commitment that was larger than the loan itself, Bright decided to pull the plug. ''We got tired of waiting for heaven and earth to move,'' Mr. Donoughe said.
''Bright has not been explicitly rejected by the D.O.E.,'' the company's management said in a Feb. 28 letter to Mr. Chu, the energy secretary. ''Rather, we have been forced to say 'uncle.' ''
Last week, at a commercial truck show in Indiana, one of Bright's employees, Amy Dobrikova, asked Mr. Chu about the company's application.
The energy secretary, who was touring the event to promote energy-efficient vehicles, described Bright's technology as ''good.'' But he told Ms. Dobrikova that his department had known the company's application would not succeed ''for the last year and a half.'' He did not, according to an audio recording of the exchange, explain why.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael F. Donoughe of Bright Automotive, which had plans to produce a plug-in hybrid delivery van, but is instead closing. (B1)
After Bright Automotive decided to shut down its operations, it held a meeting on Michigan unemployment benefits.
 Executives at Bright said federal officials were impressed with its van, but talked about avoiding ''another Solyndra situation.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); FUNDRAISING (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); APPROVALS (71%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (63%)

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); DEBBIE STABENOW (58%); SERGIO MARCHIONNE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



500 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: At Kennedy, Cargo Workers See the Future

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
He is as unlikely a trend spotter as they come, working in a cargo warehouse at Kennedy International Airport.
But some moments do not escape Rich Burkhardt: like the time a customs agent opened a box from Brazil and, inspecting its contents, found a pair of patent-leather shoes with exotic animal prints.
''I said, 'God, those are the ugliest shoes in the world,' '' Mr. Burkhardt recalled. ''Sure enough, I was with my wife a couple of weeks later at Nordstrom, and there they were.'' 
New York is filled with people trying to discern the next big thing, but few cover the ground that Mr. Burkhardt does: the American Airlines cargo warehouse at Kennedy. The warehouse, which is slightly larger than two football fields, is nondescript and removed enough from the main terminals that many airport visitors miss it. But every day, about one million pounds of imports and exports pass through, making it the region's largest air cargo terminal.
The goods processed have given the 275 American Airlines workers here a glimpse into what the world is about to wear, eat and sell.
On a recent afternoon, over the steady chimes of forklift bells gliding across the floor, terminal workers talked about how foodies from Zurich were craving California asparagus and how the latest fabrics from Milan were burgundy and tan.
They talked about how much less United States mail they had seen lately, and how they could tell when companies had lost their patents on drugs: generic versions suddenly filled the warehouse.
''We get to see it first,'' said Mr. Burkhardt, the managing director of cargo services for American Airlines. ''You see them coming in, sort of the edge of the wave, before it gets out there.''
In many ways, the cargo terminal resembles the airport's passenger terminals, with designated areas for imports and exports and a massive X-ray machine to screen the most ungainly packages.
In the departures section, goods were organized by airport. Under a sign for Paris's Charles de Gaulle Airport sat shrink-wrapped containers stuffed with 2,000 lobsters apiece. Under a sign for Miami-bound goods, there were stacks of newspapers to be flown to Bermuda from Jamaica, Queens, and a casket heading to Panama from Brooklyn, with the name of the deceased written in green marker on the top. (The terminal ships 450 human remains a year, mostly to Latin America, airline officials said.)
The arrivals section was more chaotic. There were 63 Mercedes engines arriving from Stuttgart, Germany, giant spools of fabric from Milan and a package of brown leather the size of a small car from Peru.
Carlos Alfaro, who works in international sales for Baldor Specialty Foods in the Bronx, said his workers picked up eight containers of food from Kennedy each night: haricots verts from Peru, greengage plums from New Zealand and porcini mushrooms from South Africa. His workers deliver the food the next morning, to restaurants like the Four Seasons.
Business seems to be growing for some goods. Wesley Wheeler, chief executive of Marken, which ships pharmaceuticals, said his company shipped up to 5,000 parcels a month through the cargo terminal. He said many regional pharmaceutical companies shipped drugs for conditions like cardiac disease and depression to Europe for use in drug trials.
''It's a growing area,'' Mr. Wheeler said. ''Just think about how many drugs are being developed at any given time.''
In other areas, business is shrinking. Jim Mullen, director of transportation for Worldwide Perishables, which ships lobsters through the cargo terminal to places like Paris and Barcelona, said he had been shipping fewer lobsters lately. Europeans, he said, are not splurging and eating out the way they used to.
''I think the situation in Europe is getting worse,'' Mr. Mullen said. ''I'm not laying any people off, but I'm not hiring.''
American Airlines has its own financial problems, and it remains unclear what will happen to the cargo workers as the airline files for bankruptcy.
David R. Brooks, president of American Airlines's cargo division, said the airline had presented a proposal to the Transport Workers Union that would outsource much of the cargo operations by the fall. He said discussions were continuing on ''these and other restructuring alternatives.'' The union did not respond to a request for comment.
Still, transportation experts said cargo terminals like Kennedy's were vital to the region's economy.
Robert M. Gottheim, district director for Representative Jerrold L. Nadler, said airports were cash cows for transportation agencies like the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, bringing in far more income than other sources, like tolls from bridges and tunnels. Cargo is especially profitable, Mr. Gottheim said, because businesses will pay whatever they have to to ship certain perishable goods quickly.
''These terminals won't go away,'' Mr. Gottheim said in an e-mail. ''Air cargo, which focuses on high-value goods, is a key part of J.F.K. and contributes significantly to the airport's bottom line.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Drivers prepare flower orders in the American Airlines cargo terminal at Kennedy Airport. Cargo workers get an early look at trends, from fashion to the economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
William Figueroa, above, logs a shipment from World Courier at Kennedy Airport. At right, fleet service clerks unload cargo from a Boeing 767. (A18)
 Demand for fresh lobsters is down in Europe, but crates of them are still shipped through the cargo warehouse at J.F.K. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (90%); AIR FREIGHT (90%); AIRLINES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (77%); GENERIC DRUGS (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (62%); FOOD INDUSTRY (60%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (67%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (92%); GERMANY (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); BERMUDA (79%); FRANCE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



501 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: In Appeal, W.T.O. Upholds A Decision Against Boeing

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW and NICOLA CLARK

 BODY:
The World Trade Organization's appellate body affirmed on Monday that Boeing had received at least $5 billion in improper subsidies from the United States government to develop its 787 Dreamliner and other jet models, giving it an unfair advantage over its European rival, Airbus.
European and American officials said the ruling generally upheld findings that the trade organization released last March. The decision was the latest step in a long-running battle over subsidies for airplane sales that might be settled eventually only through trans-Atlantic negotiations. 
Both the European Union and the United States claimed victories in the latest ruling. European leaders said on Monday that they were delighted that the appeals judges confirmed that the United States had improperly subsidized Boeing's aircraft development, while American officials maintained that the subsidies were smaller than those Europe had provided to Airbus.
In an earlier case, W.T.O. investigators found that Airbus had benefited from four decades of improper subsidies to vault past Boeing to become the world's top jet builder.
That ruling concluded that Airbus had received $15 billion in loans from European governments at below-market interest rates and several billion dollars in grants to produce the A380 superjumbo jet and five other best-selling models. The trade panel did not quantify the savings from the lower interest rates, but it said that Airbus could not have introduced many of its models when it did without the loans.
Rainer Ohler, the head of public affairs at Airbus, said on Monday that Boeing's Dreamliner, a lighter-weight passenger plane that has outsold Airbus's midsize models, ''is now to be called the 'Subsidy-liner.' ''
But Ron Kirk, the United States trade representative, said that, from the various rulings, ''It is now clear that European subsidies to Airbus are far larger -- by multiples -- and more distortive than anything that the United States does for Boeing.''
European supporters of Airbus had focused much of their complaint on research contracts that Boeing received from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the Pentagon since the late 1970s to develop lightweight carbon composite materials that the manufacturer subsequently used in the design of the Dreamliner. As much as 50 percent of the 787's primary structure, including the fuselage and wings, is made of composite materials, more than any other large civil aircraft.
United States officials said $2.6 billion of the subsidies that the panel found were from NASA. The appellate body also found that tax breaks that Boeing received from states like Washington and Kansas represented improper subsidies.
Boeing has said that about $2 billion in government export subsidies has already been eliminated, though they were included in the W.T.O.'s reports.
The W.T.O. has no enforcement mechanism, and both sides pointed to different aspects of the ruling in their efforts to seek more negotiating leverage.
In one change that favored Europe, the appellate body added $476 million in subsidies in Kansas to the tally, which had previously focused on those from Washington State. European officials complained that the state and local subsidies continued while the case was under investigation.
But Robert T. Novick, a lawyer for Boeing, said the appeals judges also lowered the W.T.O.'s assessment of the harm that the American subsidies had caused Airbus in terms of lost plane sales.
One major goal for Boeing and American officials has been to try to prevent Airbus from receiving similar low-interest loans to complete its A350 XWB, which will be similar to Boeing's Dreamliner.
The United States has asked the W.T.O. to form a compliance panel to determine if changes that Europe plans to make will eliminate the subsidies attributed to it. If the European Union plan is found lacking, the United States might consider $7 billion to $10 billion in retaliatory measures, American officials have said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); CHEMICALS (84%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (76%); COMPOSITE MATERIALS (75%); JUDGES (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); EXPORT PROMOTION (73%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (60%)

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (92%); BOEING CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%)

PERSON: RON KIRK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



502 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Team Tracks a Food Supply at the End of the World

BYLINE: By SUSAN MORAN

 BODY:
One recent morning at the bottom of the world, Kim Bernard spotted two humpback whales gorging in the Southern Ocean not far offshore. Dr. Bernard, a biological oceanographer, was spending the austral summer at Palmer Station, the United States research outpost on an outcropping off the western Antarctic Peninsula.
Dr. Bernard and her team, known at Palmer as ''The Psycho Krillers,'' are studying the feeding patterns of Antarctic krill, the small, bug-eyed shrimplike crustaceans that are the central diet for whales, penguins, seals and seabirds. She is one of a growing number of scientists concerned about the effects of a kind of gold rush, as fishing companies race to the Southern Ocean to catch krill and turn it into animal feed and lucrative omega-3 dietary supplements.
The former Soviet Union began fishing krill in the ocean in the 1960s, but it was not until the 1990s that Luc Rainville, a graduate student at the University of Victoria in British Columbia, discovered that the omega-3 fatty acids in Antarctic krill were readily absorbed by the human body. In 2002 he helped found a company, Neptune Biotechnologies and Bioresources, to bring krill oil to the market as a supplement. 
The annual krill harvest is still well within the limits set by the Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources, which regulates fishing in the Southern Ocean. Some scientists say the Antarctic krill fishery is the world's most underexploited marine resource.
But fishing is not the only threat to the krill population. The creatures, especially in their larval and juvenile stages, feed on algae that live on the underside of sea ice -- which is retreating as the climate warms.
And while no one argues that Antarctic krill are currently threatened or overfished, scientists and environmental groups fear that as more companies deploy more vessels -- especially huge factory ships -- fishing and climate change could prove a double blow to krill and the delicate Antarctic food web that depends on them.
''I'm not worried at current levels of the fishing effort,'' said Deborah K. Steinberg, a biological oceanographer at the Virginia Institute of Marine Science in Gloucester Point who oversees Dr. Bernard's krill research at Palmer Station. ''But I do worry about the future if the industry really starts to take off. We have to keep a close eye on it.''
The western Antarctic Peninsula is warming faster than most of the rest of the earth. Winter temperatures have shot up roughly 11 degrees Fahrenheit over the past 60 years, reducing sea ice cover. Those and other effects of climate change have caused Antarctic krill populations to plummet 40 to 80 percent in the last three decades around the South Shetland Islands near the tip of the peninsula, according to research published last May in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
The research, led by Wayne Z. Trivelpiece of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, also showed that populations of Adelie and chinstrap penguins, which rely heavily on krill, declined more than 50 percent in the northern peninsula, where krill fishing vessels concentrate.
Marine scientists are working hard to make sure the Antarctic krill fishery does not collapse as many others, like Atlantic cod, have. At a meeting in November in Hobart, Australia, an international science advisory committee called for a more active approach to fisheries management.
''We'd rather not have a krill fishery,'' said John Hocevar, director of Greenpeace USA's Oceans Campaign, who represented the United States at the meeting. ''But this is the world we live in. The fact that they're in the Southern Ocean is as much an acknowledgment of the failure of fisheries management on a global scale.''
New krill-harvesting technology introduced by Aker BioMarine of Norway, the largest krill fishing company in the South Atlantic, has made it economically feasible to send vessels to the punishingly icy waters at the bottom of the world. These factory ships continuously vacuum up krill (Aker calls it ''eco-harvesting'') and process it immediately on the ship. Last year Aker, which started harvesting krill in 2006, bought a second factory ship.
Many major retailers, including CVS, Costco and Walmart, sell krill oil capsules along with other omega-3 supplements. Most come from krill oil processed by Aker BioMarine and its main rival, Neptune.
Whole Foods Market pulled krill oil from its shelves in May 2010, citing a decline in predatory sea animals -- whales, penguins and seals -- in areas where krill are fished.
But Aker has gained two important allies. Its krill oil was approved by the Marine Stewardship Council, a global program that issues labels certifying seafood products as sustainable, despite objections from some scientists and environmental organizations. And Aker has joined forces with WWF-Norway, an arm of the international environmental organization WWF, paying it an undisclosed amount to help Aker make its fishing practices more sustainable. Aker also provides data on krill populations to WWF-Norway and scientists studying krill and its predators.
''Krill is one of the more sustainable fisheries today,'' said Matts Johansen, head of marketing at Aker BioMarine. ''Compared with fish oil it's very sustainable. And it comes from the cleanest waters on earth, with no pollutants.''
Wael Massrieh, vice president of scientific affairs at Neptune, said the company was also applying for eco-certification and was awaiting regulatory approval in the United States for a drug based on krill oil. Because ''krill is at the bottom of the food chain,'' he said, ''it doesn't accumulate as many heavy metals'' as fish-based oils.
Vegetarian alternatives, particularly algae-based omega-3 oil made by the Netherlands company Royal DSM N.V., are also gaining ground. Altogether, sales of omega-3 supplements reached more than $1 billion in 2009 in the United States alone, up from $40 million in 1995. The claimed benefits include improving heart, brain and vision health.
Back at the bottom of the world, Dr. Bernard was thinking much more about krill health than human health on a recent morning as she plunged an echo sounder from her rubber Zodiac boat into the Southern Ocean, its water just 31 degrees Fahrenheit.
The reading looked good. ''There was a massive influx!'' she wrote by e-mail. ''I had never seen so much krill on the echogram before.''
She collected nearly 1,000 krill in a plankton net. A whale nearby was ready to grab the ones Dr. Bernard missed; it can eat four tons of krill each day.
Dr. Bernard attributed the abundance to a healthy buildup of sea ice last winter. But the long-term trend is less certain, she said, and that does not bode well for krill or the larger creatures that depend on them.
On a good day just a year earlier, she noted, she had caught a mere 10 lonely krill.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: UNDER THE SEA: Kim Bernard and her research team, ''The Psycho Krillers,'' have been studying the feeding patterns of Antarctic krill in the Southern Ocean. The team has been tracking the population in recent years as krill harvesting has increased. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN NELSON
 SUSAN MORAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OCEANOGRAPHY (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); OILS & FATS (90%); CRUSTACEANS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); MARINE BIOLOGY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WHALING (78%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (78%); BIOLOGY (78%); SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (78%); ANIMALS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); SHELLFISH FISHING (76%); BIRDS (75%); LIVESTOCK FEED (75%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (74%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); ANIMAL FOODS (70%); FISHERIES (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMISSION FOR THE CONSERVATION OF ANTARCTIC MARINE LIVING RESOURCES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHERN OCEAN (94%) ANTARCTICA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



503 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Small-Picture Approach Flips Medical Economics

BYLINE: By BRUCE JAPSEN

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- Even as she struggled to manage her Type 2 diabetes, Fannie Cline's condition spiraled downward. It was not uncommon for Mrs. Cline, a 69-year-old retiree, to have dizzy spells, some so bad that they landed her in a hospital emergency room near her home here on the South Side.
But last May, she began to receive extra attention from Gwlie Lloyd, a registered nurse and care manager at Advocate Health Care, which operates a number of Chicago hospitals and clinics. Ms. Lloyd frequently calls to check on Mrs. Cline; she offers advice on diet and exercise, schedules appointments, orders meals for delivery and arranges appointments with a social worker.
As a result, Mrs. Cline's health has markedly improved. She is more active, the dizzy spells have subsided and she has not been hospitalized since May. Now she spends her days visiting friends. 
''It is nice to have someone call you in between your visits to the doctor's office to see how you are,'' Mrs. Cline said. ''If my blood sugar is elevated and I feel off balance, she will ask me what I have been eating lately. She might say, 'Maybe you need more oatmeal or fruit.' ''
The extra attention Mrs. Cline receives is the result of a radical departure from traditional fee-for-service medicine. Advocate runs one of the nation's first and largest accountable care organizations, a new kind of health care practice gaining momentum in part because of the Affordable Care Act signed into law two years ago by President Obama.
A.C.O.'s, as they are known, are collections of medical providers who band together under one business umbrella. The organization can include primary care doctors, specialists, social workers, pharmacists and nurses. The difference is in how these providers are paid: Instead of an insurance company or the government reimbursing each provider for each service provided to each patient, the A.C.O. is paid simply to care for a group of patients.
If the organization can reduce the cost of caring for the patients while maintaining their health, it gets to keep and divide up some of the savings -- a powerful incentive to do things differently, experts hope. But if the A.C.O. cannot meet quality measures and costs rise, the providers in the organization may well receive lower payments.
The A.C.O. may strike some critics as a worrying repackaging of the H.M.O. in its earliest incarnations, but there is little doubt that more Americans will be enrolled in these provider groups in the coming years. ''A.C.O.'s are coming, and it will change the way we pay for health care,'' said Dr. Michael Cryer, national medical director for the employee benefits consultancy Aon Hewitt. ''Providers are doing things in a positive way rather than a reactive way. We are seeing the beginnings of a tsunami.''
For the past year, Advocate has cared for more than 200,000 patients insured by Illinois Blue Cross plans, and so far the A.C.O. has managed to reduce hospital stays and overall costs for patients, according to Steve Hamman, vice president for network management at Illinois Blue Cross. Advocate, like other A.C.O.'s, manages to do this in large part by hiring people like Ms. Lloyd to better coordinate patient care.
Care managers exist outside of A.C.O.'s, but they are particularly important in this new health care setting. Care managers keep patients like Mrs. Cline out of expensive hospitals by reminding them to take their medications, helping them to eat properly, and troubleshooting logistical problems that elderly and sick patients often encounter.
''A care manager may care for up to 150 patients, and the savings from keeping these patients healthy, and potentially out of the hospital, pays for their salary several times over,'' said Dr. Lee Sacks, chief medical officer at Advocate. ''But it's more than just the economics. It's the right thing to do.''
Private insurers nationwide have begun enrolling beneficiaries in A.C.O.'s, but they may have an even bigger effect on Medicare participants. In April, A.C.O.'s participating in the Medicare Shared Savings Program will begin accepting Medicare patients. By the end of the year, at least two million will be enrolled, according to government estimates.
Medicare plans to require that A.C.O.'s achieve 33 quality measures for patients, like reducing readmissions of patients who experience an infection or complication the hospital should have prevented. (Private insurers like Illinois Blue Cross have similar requirements, though they can vary.)
Unlike H.M.O.'s that restrict a patient's choices of doctors and hospitals to the health plan's network, A.C.O.'s must offer Medicare enrollees a choice of how they get their care and from whom. Patients in A.C.O.'s can go outside of a network and still receive reimbursement, and an A.C.O. has latitude in how it organizes providers and coordinates care.
Medicare beneficiaries will be assigned to an A.C.O. through the doctor that provides them with the most primary care services. They may opt out, but many may not even realize they are enrolled in an A.C.O.
''This is not about restricting care, but to proactively coordinate care and to ensure that the patients' needs are met early in the process,'' said Jonathan Blum, deputy administrator at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
Still, some experts are concerned about the advent of an untested model of care that is expensive and complicated to put in place, and that recalls to some degree the practices of H.M.O.'s 20 years ago, when doctors were paid monthly fixed fees in hopes that they could provide all the care a patient needed -- and still have money left over for a profit.
Not so long ago, politicians and the news media feasted on terrible stories of patients denied care by their H.M.O.'s. And it was not uncommon to see doctors' practices go out of business or file for bankruptcy when they were unable to manage the financial risks.
Dr. Joseph Golbus, president of NorthShore University HealthSystem's medical group, a rival to Advocate in Chicago's northern suburbs, said the A.C.O.'s structure places even more of the financial risk of caring for sick patients on providers, not the insurance companies or Medicare.
While many hospitals nationwide are snapping up local practices in hopes of transforming themselves into A.C.O.'s, others are hesitating because they worry about high administrative costs and more bureaucracy.
''The costs are going to accrue to the providers, but the benefits are going to accrue to everyone else,'' said Dr. Golbus. ''What I think killed H.M.O.'s in the '90s was limiting access to patients and telling the doctor he is now worth 17 cents per member, per month. We don't want to see that again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CHICAGO: Gwlie Lloyd, a nurse and care manager, and Dr. Steven Wolf at an Advocate Health clinic. Advocate is one of the nation's first accountable care organizations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE KAGAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIABETES (90%); NURSES & NURSING (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); PHARMACISTS (77%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (77%); HOSPITALS (77%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (76%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); DIETING (70%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (80%); ADVOCATE HEALTH CARE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (80%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (80%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (80%); SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



504 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: The Fertility Implosion

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
When you look at pictures from the Arab spring, you see these gigantic crowds of young men, and it confirms the impression that the Muslim Middle East has a gigantic youth bulge -- hundreds of millions of young people with little to do. But that view is becoming obsolete. As Nicholas Eberstadt and Apoorva Shah of the American Enterprise Institute point out, over the past three decades, the Arab world has undergone a little noticed demographic implosion. Arab adults are having many fewer kids.
Usually, high religious observance and low income go along with high birthrates. But, according to the United States Census Bureau, Iran now has a similar birth rate to New England -- which is the least fertile region in the U.S. 
The speed of the change is breathtaking. A woman in Oman today has 5.6 fewer babies than a woman in Oman 30 years ago. Morocco, Syria and Saudi Arabia have seen fertility-rate declines of nearly 60 percent, and in Iran it's more than 70 percent. These are among the fastest declines in recorded history.
The Iranian regime is aware of how the rapidly aging population and the lack of young people entering the work force could lead to long-term decline. But there's not much they have been able to do about it. Maybe Iranians are pessimistic about the future. Maybe Iranian parents just want smaller families.
As Eberstadt is careful to note, demographics is not necessarily destiny. You can have fast economic development with low fertility or high fertility (South Korea and Taiwan did it a few decades ago). But, over the long term, it's better to have a growing work force, not one that's shrinking compared with the number of retirees.
If you look around the world, you see many other nations facing demographic headwinds. If the 20th century was the century of the population explosion, the 21st century, as Eberstadt notes, is looking like the century of the fertility implosion.
Already, nearly half the world's population lives in countries with birthrates below the replacement level. According to the Census Bureau, the total increase in global manpower between 2010 and 2030 will be just half the increase we experienced in the two decades that just ended. At the same time, according to work by the International Institute of Applied Systems Analysis, the growth in educational attainment around the world is slowing.
This leads to what the writer Philip Longman has called the gray tsunami -- a situation in which huge shares of the population are over 60 and small shares are under 30.
Some countries have it worse than others. Since the end of the Soviet Union, Russia has managed the trick of having low birthrates and high death rates. Russian life expectancy is basically the same as it was 50 years ago, and the nation's population has declined by roughly six million since 1992.
Rapidly aging Japan has one of the worst demographic profiles, and most European profiles are famously grim. In China, long-term economic growth could face serious demographic restraints. The number of Chinese senior citizens is soaring by 3.7 percent year after year. By 2030, as Eberstadt notes, there will be many more older workers (ages 50-64) than younger workers (15-29). In 2010, there were almost twice as many younger ones. In a culture where there is low social trust outside the family, a generation of only children is giving birth to another generation of only children, which is bound to lead to deep social change.
Even the countries with healthier demographics are facing problems. India, for example, will continue to produce plenty of young workers. By 2030, according to the Vienna Institute of Demography, India will have 100 million relatively educated young men, compared with fewer than 75 million in China.
But India faces a regional challenge. Population growth is high in the northern parts of the country, where people tend to be poorer and less educated. Meanwhile, fertility rates in the southern parts of the country, where people are richer and better educated, are already below replacement levels.
The U.S. has long had higher birthrates than Japan and most European nations. The U.S. population is increasing at every age level, thanks in part to immigration. America is aging, but not as fast as other countries.
But even that is looking fragile. The 2010 census suggested that U.S. population growth is decelerating faster than many expected.
Besides, it's probably wrong to see this as a demographic competition. American living standards will be hurt by an aging and less dynamic world, even if the U.S. does attract young workers.
For decades, people took dynamism and economic growth for granted and saw population growth as a problem. Now we've gone to the other extreme, and it's clear that young people are the scarce resource. In the 21st century, the U.S. could be the slowly aging leader of a rapidly aging world.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOE MORTIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); AGING TRENDS (76%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); CENSUS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); FERTILITY RATES (76%); FAMILY (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (74%); RELIGION (73%); HISTORY (71%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (71%); AGING (66%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (57%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); OMAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SYRIA (78%); MOROCCO (76%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (65%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



505 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Volkswagen Growth to Slow

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WOLFSBURG, GERMANY -- Volkswagen's pursuit of record profits may take a breather this year as Europe's largest car maker invests in a technology overhaul.
VW has a goal of matching last year's record 11.3 billion, or $14.8 billion, in operating profit in 2012 before aiming for another increase in 2013, the company said in its annual report published on Monday. Revenue may beat last year's 159.3 billion in 2012 and 2013. 
''We need to recoup our substantial development and start-up costs,'' the chief executive Martin Winterkorn said at a news conference in Wolfsburg, where VW is based.
Recent efforts to expand parts-sharing across VW's range of small and mid-sized vehicles may yield ''substantial savings'' over the longer term, he said. VW estimates its parts sharing across brands, including the luxury division Audi and the Czech unit Skoda, may cut production costs by 20 percent and assembly times by 30 percent.
The continued growth of car markets in Asia, the United States, Latin America and Russia may help VW to increase group deliveries this year beyond the record 8.3 million cars achieved in 2011. The company plans to roll out more than 40 new models or updated vehicles in 2012, according to Mr. Winterkorn.
VW said last month that fourth-quarter operating profit slipped nearly 1 percent to 2.29 billion. The company plans to increase its dividend by 80 cents to 3 per share for common shareholders and 3.06 for preferred.
''The unbroken automotive boom is providing an additional tailwind for our growth plans,'' Mr. Winterkorn said on Monday, adding that the global market for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles could exceed 100 million units by 2018, by when VW aims to be the world's biggest auto manufacturer.
VW's new compact car production system is more flexible than previous platforms and allows the car maker to build models with different height, width and length. The new architecture is designed for use in as many as 3.5 million small and mid-sized cars including Audi's new A3 compact and the next generation of VW's Golf, the carmaker's best-selling vehicle.
VW said last September that 62.4 billion will be spent on factories, vehicles and development as part of its rolling five-year budget. The auto manufacturer has not disclosed costs for launching its new compact-car technology, though it admits an impact on earnings.
''It initially entails considerable upfront costs in order to adapt a range of production plants to the new platform,'' the chief financial officer Hans Dieter Poetsch said at the news conference.
VW is still facing hurdles to combining with Porsche SE's automotive operations, Mr. Winterkorn said. VW faces having to pay about 1 billion in tax if it were to buy the remaining 50.1 percent of Porsche's car-making business before 2014.
The German manufacturer dropped plans for a full merger with Porsche last September after lawsuits against the sports-car manufacturer in the United States and Germany complicated Porsche's valuation.
''All parties involved are continuing to work at full speed on achieving the integrated automotive group with Porsche at conditions that make good economic sense,'' Mr. Winterkorn said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); COMMON STOCK (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (74%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%)

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN FINANCIAL SERVICES AG (92%); PORSCHE AUTOMOBIL HOLDING SE (60%)

TICKER: PAH3 (FRA) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (60%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (89%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (75%); ASIA (70%); CZECH REPUBLIC (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



506 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: The Millennials Check In

BYLINE: By JANET MORRISSEY

 BODY:
The hotel industry, struggling to recover from the depths of the recession, has begun to contemplate a group of travelers it sees as crucial to its economic growth -- those in their 20s to mid-30s who are obsessed with technology, social media and design.
Many hotel owners and operators are remodeling existing hotels or introducing new ones that offer free hotelwide Wi-Fi connections; large, welcoming lobbies with plush, comfortable furnishings; state-of-the-art fitness areas; in-room power consoles to plug in iPads, laptops and other devices; and stylish bars that spill into the lobby.
Some are also scheduling nightly social events, like happy hours and free wine tastings, aimed at luring the iPhone-toting generation to their hotels.
''All of the major brands -- Hilton, Starwood, Marriott, InterContinental -- have developed hip products that are targeted at the younger traveler,'' said Chris Klauda, a vice president at D. K. Shifflet & Associates, a travel and hospitality market research company. 
Travel spending by these younger travelers rose 20 percent in 2010, making them the fastest-growing age segment, according to American Express Business Insights, though they still lag the baby boom generation in overall spending.
Hotels that ignore these younger travelers, said Mark Woodworth, president of Colliers PKF Hospitality Research, will be at ''a very severe competitive disadvantage.''
About a decade ago, the hotel industry was concentrating much of its effort on luring people who are now mostly in their 50s and 60s. The changes involved higher-quality beds, brighter lighting and bigger work spaces. And those travelers were loyal to brands that offered reliable, comfortable services.
Today, the Millennials, or Generation Y, seem to be seeking the opposite: the innovative and the off-the-wall attract their attention and their wallets.
''Interesting is more important than comfort,'' said Bjorn Hanson, divisional dean of the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University. ''It's the reverse for baby boomers.''
Mr. Hanson said wall-to-wall -- and free -- Wi-Fi service was not only demanded but expected. ''High-speed Internet is almost like air to Millennials,'' he added, with most considering it as essential as beds and towels.
Hotel owners are also installing power consoles in rooms and public areas so that charging all those cellphones and laptops is easy and accessible.
''Gen Y'ers don't want to have to unplug lamps or crawl under the bed to get their laptops and P.D.A.'s plugged in,'' Ms. Klauda said.
The Plaza Hotel in New York has gone one step further, placing iPads in every hotel room. Guests can use the device to control the lighting, adjust the air-conditioning, order room service and read the morning paper.
Marketing and communicating through social networks are also important among hoteliers. When young travelers have a problem at a hotel, they are less inclined to complain to the hotel manager, as their predecessors generally do; they go online and post on Twitter about it. In early 2010, Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide responded by setting up a team of about 20 people whose sole job is to monitor and respond to online complaints and comments.
Probably the biggest physical change has been to the hotels' lobbies. Executives are retrofitting lobbies with comfortable sofas and Art Deco furnishings.
''If Millennials are wearing shorts, a T-shirt, a baseball cap and athletic shoes, a lobby that has mahogany paneling, English hunting scenes and Oriental rugs doesn't connect as well,'' Mr. Hanson said.
Young travelers also tend to spend far more time socializing and working in the lobby than they spend in their hotel rooms. ''We coined the phrase 'isolated togetherness,' because if you watch them in the lobby, a lot of them are texting -- but they're texting each other in the lobby,'' Ms. Klauda said.
Older travelers, on the other hand, often prefer solitude at the end of the day. They ''like the face-to-face interaction during the day, but at the end of the day, we're done -- bring us our room service and leave us alone,'' said David Loeb, a senior research analyst at Robert W. Baird & Company, a wealth management firm.
Younger travelers also tend to visit three or four different restaurants and bars a night, so some hotels are opening up multiple bars and lounges with different themes at different times of the day to keep them in the hotel. Many also offer free daily events, including tea tastings, yoga sessions and wine tastings, said Raj Chandnani, vice president for strategy at WATG, an architectural design firm for the lodging industry.
The hotelier Ian Schrager, a founder of the Studio 54 nightclub, was a pioneer in creating designer hotels with hip nightclubs, like the Paramount, Royalton and Hudson hotels in Manhattan in the 1980s and '90s.
Starwood followed with its W hotels in the late 1990s and the debut of its Aloft brand in 2005. Other major brands have since jumped in, among them the InterContinental Hotels Group's Indigo brand, Hyatt Hotels Corporation's Andaz and Hyatt Place brands, and Marriott International's concept to turn its lobbies into so-called great rooms.
Gerard Greene, a former hotel analyst, said he felt so strongly about the need for designer hotels at affordable prices that he quit his job, sold his home in London and used cash from the sale to finance his dream.
Now, 10 years later, his brand, Yotel, has four hotels, including one in Midtown Manhattan that some guests have described as futuristic. That hotel has an airportlike check-in kiosk (there is no registration desk); social public spaces; Wi-Fi access, power consoles and entertainment systems that devices can plug into; giant Monsoon shower heads; and compact 200-square-foot rooms, which were inspired by airline cabins, that have floor-to-ceiling windows.
Yotel's other hotels are at the Gatwick and Heathrow airports in London and at Schiphol Airport in Amsterdam, and it is planning on new ones in Miami, San Francisco, Paris, Hong Kong and New York, at Kennedy Airport.
But could all of this be a passing fad that will fade as the travelers get older?
Mr. Greene said he was not concerned, comparing it with the Apple phenomenon.
''Younger people were the first to adopt the iPods, iPads and so forth, and now my mom has an iPhone, as do much older people,'' he said. ''But the people who got it first were the younger people.''
Similarly, he said he believed that older travelers would follow the young in hotel trends.
''My sense is most people think there's been a change,'' said John Fox, a senior vice president at PKF Consulting, ''and it's a permanent change.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The music of Luke Rathborne at the Ace Hotel in Manhattan does not prevent some from going online. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CASEY KELBAUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); LODGING (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); GENERATION Y (89%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (89%); TABLET COMPUTERS (89%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (89%); BABY BOOMERS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); SMARTPHONES (75%); DRINKING PLACES (75%); SPORTS BUSINESS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); TOURISM (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); BRAND EQUITY (68%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (67%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



507 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Watchdogs Condemn A.I.G. Tax Exemption

BYLINE: By KEVIN ROOSE

 BODY:
A special tax provision granted to the American International Group during the financial crisis is drawing attention from the former watchdogs who oversaw the government bailout programs.
On Monday, four former members of the Congressional Oversight Panel for the Troubled Asset Relief Program released a statement condemning a tax-related exemption given to A.I.G. in 2008 by the Treasury Department.
The exemption allowed A.I.G. and several other struggling companies to apply their ''net operating losses'' against future tax bills, despite a rule that eliminates them when a company is acquired or files for bankruptcy. By doing so, the insurer - which was effectively taken over by the government after a $182 billion bailout - was able to lower its tax burden by billions of dollars. Last month, A.I.G. reported a $19.8 billion profit for the fourth quarter, largely related to its net operating losses. 
''When the government bailed out A.I.G., it should not have allowed the failed insurance giant to duck taxes for years to come,'' said Elizabeth Warren, the committee's former chairwoman and a current Senate candidate in Massachusetts. The statement was also signed by Damon Silvers, J. Mark McWatters and Kenneth Troske, former members of the committee, a bipartisan group that was disbanded last year.
Mark Herr, an A.I.G. spokesman, said that the company was simply ''adhering to well-settled tax law that a company can use losses to offset its income.'' Mr. Herr added that the insurer had ''repaid the American taxpayer more than $45 billion to date and is committed to taking all possible steps so that American taxpayers can continue to recoup their investment in A.I.G. at a profit.''
In a blog post this month, Emily McMahon, the acting assistant secretary of the Treasury for tax policy, said that recent press reports about A.I.G.'s tax provision had presented an ''incomplete picture.'' Allowing A.I.G. and other companies to apply the losses, Ms. McMahon wrote, ''made them stronger businesses, helped attract private capital and further stabilized the overall financial system.''
Still, former committee members said that it represented a ''stealth bailout.''
''Exempting A.I.G. from the normal corporate tax rules is harmful to the public interest,'' Mr. Silvers said in the statement. ''This corporate tax break transfers public money to A.I.G.'s private shareholders and inflates executive pay at A.I.G. - both at the public's expense.''
News of the panel members' statement was earlier reported by Politico.
The full text of the joint statement is below:
Former Members of Congressional Oversight Panel Condemn Stealth Bailout of American International Group (AIG): Failed Insurance Giant Should Not Get Special Deals to Avoid Taxes
BOSTON - Congress should not allow American International Group (AIG) to avoid paying taxes for years into the future in addition to the $182 billion bailout the company has already received, said a bipartisan group of former members of the Congressional Oversight Panel for the Troubled Asset Relief Program. The group includes former Chair Elizabeth Warren and former panel members Damon Silvers, Mark McWatters, and Kenneth Troske.
When a company changes ownership, long-standing tax laws limit the extent to which it can offset future taxes with past losses. Beginning in late 2008, however, the Treasury Department quietly issued a series of notices that exempted AIG from those limits. This provided AIG an additional taxpayer subsidy: bailout money and a special tax break that some estimate has contributed to $17.7 billion in profits for the company. Today, the former members of the oversight panel called for Congress to end the special tax deals and stop bailing out AIG.
''AIG gambled recklessly on mortgage-backed securities and lost,'' said Warren, former chair of the Panel. ''When the government bailed out AIG, it should not have allowed the failed insurance giant to duck taxes for years to come. That kind of bonus wasn't necessary to protect the economy. It also gives AIG a leg up against its competitors at a time when everyone should have to play by the same rules - especially when it comes to paying taxes,'' said Warren.
McWatters and Troske added in a joint statement: ''This tax break only adds to the benefits received by the executives, shareholders and creditors of AIG, all of whom profited from the taxpayer-financed bailout. More important, this benefit exacerbates the distortions produced by Treasury's bailout of too-big-to-fail firms while also allowing Treasury to further mask the true cost of the TARP.''
Silvers added: ''Exempting AIG from the normal corporate tax rules is harmful to the public interest. This corporate tax break transfers public money to AIG's private shareholders and inflates executive pay at AIG - both at the public's expense.''
The group agreed that Washington needs to stop doing special deals for too-big-to-fail companies that hurt American families, and that a good way to start is for Congress to stand up, end these special tax breaks and make companies like AIG pay their fair share.
The Congressional Oversight Panel was established by the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act, passed by Congress in October 2008, and completed its oversight work last year. The Panel had reviewed the AIG bailout for Congress in a 273-page report dated June 10, 2010.
Each member of the bipartisan oversight Panel was appointed by Congressional leadership: Warren was appointed by Senator Harry Reid; McWatters was appointed by Rep. John Boehner; Silvers was appointed jointly by Rep. Nancy Pelosi and Senator Harry Reid; and Troske was appointed by Senator Mitch McConnell.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BAILOUTS (91%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); INSURANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); CORPORATE TAX (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (62%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (51%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (94%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (94%); 8685 (TSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



508 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Bank Officials Cited in Churn of Foreclosures

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and J. B. SILVER-GREENBERG

 BODY:
Managers at major banks ignored widespread errors in the foreclosure process, in some cases instructing employees to adopt make-believe titles and speed documents through the system despite internal objections, according to a wide-ranging review by federal investigators.
The banks have largely focused the blame for mistakes on low-level employees, attributing many of the problems to the surge in the volume of foreclosures after the housing market collapsed and the economy weakened in 2008. 
But the report concludes that managers were aware of the problems and did nothing to correct them. The shortcuts were directed by managers in some cases, according to the report, which is by the inspector general of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The examination is among the most extensive to date of the banks' foreclosure practices, which caused a national uproar and prompted a $25 billion settlement between the banks and the government that was filed in federal court Monday.
''I believe the reports we just released will leave the reader asking one question -- how could so many people have participated in this misconduct?'' David Montoya, the inspector general of the housing department, said in a statement. ''The answer -- simple greed.''
What is more, rather than focusing on misconduct at outside law firms, loan processors and other third parties as some past inquiries did, the department's investigation takes aim at internal bank processes and the chain of command. It does not name the supervisors or indicate how many knew of the problems, however.
At Bank of America, which until late last year was the nation's largest mortgage servicer, two employees testified that they had raised concerns about whether documents were being properly notarized, but managers told them to proceed. One vice president said documents in her department were checked only for ''formatting and spelling errors,'' not the underlying figures or facts in the case.
''Bank of America did not establish effective control over its foreclosure process,'' according to the report, to be released Tuesday. And as foreclosure cases multiplied, Bank of America's management turned up the pressure on employees to move faster. ''Despite management representations to the contrary,'' the report says, ''employee performance reviews demonstrated that Bank of America used defined goals and metrics to evaluate performance-based production in its document execution group.''
At Wells Fargo, now the nation's largest mortgage servicer and originator, employees told the inspector general's office that the company's management had assigned them bogus titles, including ''vice president of loan documentation,'' even though they had no training in document review. Before becoming vice president, one employee worked at a pizza restaurant.
Wells Fargo's management quashed an independent study by a manager responsible for overseeing the affidavit process. The study had started to show that the document department was critically understaffed. ''The midlevel manager was directed to stop the study and return to the practice of signing affidavits without reading or verifying data,'' the report said.
And instead of remedying the problems, Wells Fargo's management shortened the review period to less than 48 hours instead of five to seven days, the employees said.
The banks have argued that despite document errors, foreclosures were justified because borrowers had fallen behind on their payments. But the report, which focused on foreclosures from 2008 to 2010 of federally backed loans serviced by five major banks, suggests that the banks violated state laws governing the foreclosure process.
In a statement, Bank of America said the report ''references activities from over a year ago that have been addressed as we do all we can to modify loans when possible and to ensure foreclosures are fair when they are unavoidable.'' A representative for Wells Fargo declined to comment. At Ally, a spokeswoman said that when managers became aware of ''procedural deficiencies,'' they ''took quick and decisive action to address it.''
At the center of the foreclosure controversy, regulators accused the banks of so-called robo-signing, in which employees churned out thousands of documents used to seize homes without reviewing them for accuracy.
A team leader in Ally Financial's foreclosure department admitted signing up to 10,000 affidavits a month without reviewing them for accuracy, according to the report. The team leader also said he had routinely signed documents used in foreclosure proceedings with ''no knowledge of the facts without reviewing the supporting documents.''
At JPMorgan Chase, operations supervisors ''routinely signed foreclosure documents, including affidavits, certifying that they had personal knowledge of the facts when they did not,'' according to the review.
As at Wells Fargo, employees at JPMorgan Chase took on titles like ''vice president of Chase Home'' even though ''the titles were given by Chase for the sole purpose of allowing individuals to sign documents and came with no other duties or authority.''
In one review of 36 foreclosures at JPMorgan Chase, the bank was able to find documents explaining what the borrowers purportedly owed in only four cases. And in three of those four instances, the underlying documents proved incorrect.
A representative at JPMorgan Chase declined to comment.
Vice presidents at Citigroup told the inspector general that some employees had ''regularly'' signed foreclosure documents without reviewing them for accuracy. While the foreclosure procedures were improved in 2010, the bank continued to employ outside law firms to file foreclosure documents that were potentially sloppy and plagued by errors, the report concluded.
Some employees signed stacks of documents a day without reviewing them. Unlike the other major servicers, Citi never halted foreclosure sales. In 2010, Citi told regulators that it had found its internal procedures to be sound.
In a statement, Citi said it was ''making every effort to ensure that no foreclosure goes forward based on an inaccurate or defective affidavit.''
The five big banks written about in the report face stiff penalties and intense public scrutiny if they fail to live up to the standards of the settlement.
While the broad outline of the deal was announced last month, the mechanics of the agreement that took more than a year to negotiate were laid out in Monday's filing.
The five banks covered by the settlement -- Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo, Citigroup and Ally -- engaged ''in a pattern of unfair and deceptive practices,'' the complaint says.
The settlement covers mortgages owned by the banks or serviced by them on behalf of private investors. Mortgages held by government-sponsored enterprises or backed by the Federal Housing Administration do not fall under the scope of the accord.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The headquarters of Bank of America in Charlotte, N.C. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR J. BLUE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MISCONDUCT (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); LAWYERS (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); RESTAURANTS (64%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (63%); CITIES (54%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); WELLS FARGO & CO (82%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); WFC (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



509 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Split Over a Bid To Revise Budget Deal

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The House is bracing for a rancorous showdown over a 2013 budget plan that has already divided Republicans because of a push by conservatives to cut spending below the level both parties agreed to in last year's deal to raise the federal deficit.
Trying to demonstrate anew their push to reduce the size of the government, conservative House Republicans want to cap spending on programs under Congress's discretion well below the $1.047 trillion cap set by the budget deal last summer. But House Appropriations Committee leaders and Republican moderates, facing tough re-election campaigns, want to stick to the agreement struck with President Obama seven months ago. 
''We voted for it. That's the number we should use,'' said Representative Charles Bass, Republican of New Hampshire.
The budget blueprint for the coming fiscal year -- to be unveiled next week -- will also reignite the fight over Medicare, an election-year prospect that has both parties digging in.
Whatever the House produces, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, has already said he has no intention of bringing a budget to a vote in the Senate -- meaning the House debate will be essentially symbolic.
But the symbolism could define the battle for control of the House in 2013 between Republicans -- who say they are willing to make the difficult choices to overhaul Medicare, limit the size of government and control the deficit -- and Democrats running as a party that will preserve Medicare and make the rich shoulder more of the economic burden.
''An argument for a sounder, more sensible future for Medicare is one that we can very comfortably make,'' said Representative Nan Hayworth of New York, a freshman Republican on the Democrats' target list.
Before they can get to that debate, Republicans must decide among themselves whether and how far to break the agreement on spending levels reached in July during the last budget fight, the one over raising the statutory limit for federal borrowing.
Last week, House Budget Committee Republicans met privately with Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the majority leader, to try to set a spending limit for the 2013 fiscal year that almost certainly would be below the cap set last year. That brought indignant protests from Democrats and predictions of another spending stalemate, this time just before the November election. The Senate will stick with the $1.047 trillion figure, meaning House and Senate spending bills will start out tens of billions of dollars apart.
Senator Kent Conrad, a North Dakota Democrat and chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, said the budget deal spending levels should be more sacrosanct than a conventional nonbinding budget agreement since the debt limit figure is enshrined in law. Democrats say that if the House and Senate stick to that number, Congress could devote much of its energy to working on a long-term deficit reduction plan that would be ready for a vote shortly after the November election.
Instead, the Capitol could again be tied in knots over differing levels of spending in a dozen routine spending bills.
''I do not understand their fascination with government shutdowns and looking dysfunctional,'' said Senator Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington, a senior member of the Appropriations Committee.
Beyond that number loomed another fight over Medicare, the health care program for the elderly. House Republicans say their new budget will step back from last year's plan, which would have replaced the guaranteed benefits of Medicare with a fixed government allowance that the elderly would receive to purchase private health care.
Instead, the elderly would be offered an allowance that could be used to buy a private plan or the existing government coverage, a proposal embraced by the House Budget Committee chairman, Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, and Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon.
House Republicans are using Mr. Wyden's name as a political shield. In an interview, Ms. Hayworth used the term Wyden-Ryan three times. But some Republicans are returning to the Medicare fight with trepidation this election year.
Yet despite the unease, House Republicans say they are willing to produce a budget, even if the Senate does not.
''The point is to lay that marker out there and say this is the preferred path forward,'' said Representative Steven C. LaTourette, a veteran Republican from Ohio, ''and then like so many things, the Senate and the administration are going to have to come up with some way to deal with it. I'm perfectly comfortable with that. What's not worth it is to come up with some goofy, pie-in-the-sky entitlement reform that's never going to happen, and that's going to expose our members to criticism.''
Democrats are not waiting. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has produced a mock movie poster proclaiming, ''Just when you thought Medicare was safe, they're back.'' Representative Steve Israel, the committee's chairman, predicted that the budget fight could define the 2012 election campaign for his party, especially if, as expected, the budget eschews any tax increases.
''Instead of asking seniors to be the first to experiment,'' Mr. Israel said, ''why not ask millionaires to do a little more? That's the dividing line.''
The Republican presidential front-runner, Mitt Romney, provoked the first skirmish of the fight on Monday when he tried to turn the political tables and accuse Mr. Obama of ''ending Medicare as we know it.''
The Romney campaign pointed to Medicare cuts in the 2010 health care law and the law's newly created independent board empowered to press for Medicare cost savings. Democrats fired back with Mr. Romney's embrace of the Ryan approach to Medicare changes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Charles Bass, Republican of New Hampshire, wants to stay with the $1.047 trillion spending cap deal, while Representative Nan Hayworth of New York prefers changes. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JIM COLE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); DEBT CEILING (77%)

PERSON: CHARLES BASS (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); HARRY REID (58%); NAN HAYWORTH (58%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); KENT CONRAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



510 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Britain to Join Obama in Discouraging a Strike on Iran

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and JOHN F. BURNS; Mark Landler reported from Washington and John F. Burns from London.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Britain will add its voice to President Obama's in discouraging an Israeli military strike on Iran when Prime Minister David Cameron begins a three-day visit here this week, a senior British diplomat said Monday.
''The prime minister is pretty clear that he does not think military action against Iran would be helpful,'' the diplomat, Peter Westmacott, Britain's recently appointed ambassador to the United States, told reporters. ''We do not regard that as the right way forward in the months to come.'' 
Mr. Cameron, he said, supports Mr. Obama's vow that Iran will not be allowed to acquire nuclear weapons. And, like the president, the prime minister believes military force must be preserved as an option. But an Israeli strike, Mr. Westmacott said, could ''unleash a whole variety of different consequences'' and might backfire by strengthening the Iranian regime and the resolve of the Iranian people to acquire nuclear status.
''We are, all of us, concerned about what might flow from a decision to take precipitate military action,'' he said.
Mr. Cameron, in his talks with Mr. Obama, is expected to press for tighter diplomatic and economic sanctions, said a senior British official in London. ''There's a lot more to be done to turn up the pressure, to turn up the dial,'' said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the talks with the White House.
Speaking to reporters on Monday, Mr. Cameron said, ''The Iranian situation is vital, in terms of trying to demonstrate to the world, and in particular to the Iranians, our continued road of sanctions, the pressure that's got further to run, and that we're going to push that as hard as we can.''
Mr. Cameron is to arrive in the United States on Tuesday, a week after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israeltraveled to Washington to rally American support for a potential military confrontation with Iran. While Mr. Netanyahu told Mr. Obama that Israel had not decided to carry out an attack, administration officials said, he expressed fears that the window for diplomacy and sanctions was closing.
Mr. Obama urged Mr. Netanyahu not to give up on nonmilitary options, though he reaffirmed Israel's sovereign right to defend itself, and he explicitly renounced a policy of containing a nuclear-armed Iran. Prime Minister Cameron, Mr. Westmacott said, agreed with that policy.
Britain has been less fixated than the United States on talk of war with Iran, in part because of the American presidential election campaign, in which Republicans candidates have criticized Mr. Obama's policy as not being tough enough on Tehran. Supporters of Israel gathered last week in Washington for a conference of the pro-Israel lobbying group the American Israel Public Affairs Committee.
Mr. Cameron said he believed that Mr. Obama's warnings during Mr. Netanyahu's visit about the consequences of an Israeli strike on Iran had ''changed the situation,'' in terms of its likelihood. As for Britain, he said, ''We've been very clear: If there was an Israeli strike, we wouldn't support them.''
Britain's voice is important because the nation is a close ally of the United States in dealing with Iran, as well as other regional trouble spots, including Syria, where its diplomatic role is central. Britain currently holds the rotating chairmanship of the United Nations Security Council, which has struggled to pass a resolution that would halt President Bashar al-Assad's deadly attacks on civilians in Homs.
Mr. Westmacott made clear that Britain would not lead any effort to arm Syrian rebels or marshal a military intervention in the country. Lacking a consensus in the Security Council, with Russia continuing to oppose military action, he said there was no mandate to act. And he said that taking on Syria, with robust air defenses and a well-trained army, would require a much greater level of force than the Libya action had.
''The conditions are not the same,'' Mr. Westmacott said. Intervening in Syria, he said, would require ''a very substantial commitment of equipment and of troops.''
Mr. Obama, returning the hospitality he received on his visit to Britain last May, plans to give Mr. Cameron full ruffles and flourishes, with a state dinner at the White House on Wednesday. But the highlight may be a road trip to Dayton, Ohio, where the two leaders will watch a first-round game in the N.C.A.A. basketball tournament, featuring Western Kentucky and Mississippi Valley State.
The game was the White House's idea, Mr. Westmacott said, adding that Mr. Cameron was familiarizing himself with March Madness. He will presumably also get a primer on the value of visiting Ohio, a swing state, in an election year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister David Cameron, at 10 Downing Street on Monday, is coming to the United States for a three-day visit. (POOL PHOTO BY LEWIS WHYLD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); LOBBYING (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (62%); WAR & CONFLICT (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); DAVID CAMERON (90%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); IRAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



511 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Playing Up a Scotsman's Lawn Ken

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
A CAMPAIGN is celebrating the green, green grass of home with a new brand character who is meant to bring to life a familiar line of lawn-care products.
The character, named Scott, is Scottish, wears plaid shirts, owns a Scottie and has a Scottish accent. Those clues may tip you off to the brand of lawn fertilizer and seed that he represents: Scotts, sold by the Scotts Miracle-Gro Company. Scott is played by a Scottish character actor named Phil McKee.
Scott the Scot for Scotts, as the campaign is being referred to informally, includes ads on television and radio, online, in mobile media and in social media like YouTube. It is estimated that the budget is being increased by more than $50 million from last year, about 60 percent more than the previous budget of around $85 million. 
The campaign, now under way, is the first work from the Richards Group in Dallas, which Scotts Miracle-Gro recently hired to create campaigns for the Scotts brand. The assignment had been handled by ML Rogers in New York, which recently became part of the Dentsu America division of Dentsu and continues as the creative agency for brands like Miracle-Gro.
Richards is also the agency for Home Depot, which is the largest retailer of products sold by Scotts Miracle-Gro, said Jim Lyski, who joined Scotts Miracle-Gro in Marysville, Ohio, last year as chief marketing officer.
Richards ''understood the category, the dynamic of what lawn and garden means to the retailer,'' Mr. Lyski said.
The goal of the new campaign is ''turning the brand message'' for Scotts ''into something more relevant, more motivating and more actionable,'' he added.
The campaign is based on ''one huge insight'' from research among more than 4,000 consumers, Mr. Lyski said, that ''people would change their behavior if an expert spoke to them about lawn care.''
''They said, 'If I knew more, I'd do more,' '' he added.
In the research, people also talked about how there is usually ''somebody on your street'' knowledgeable about lawn care, Mr. Lyski said.
The brand character Scott ''marries the two'' concepts, he added, and ''we made him Scottish because of the mnemonic.''
The concept of a Scotsman promoting Scotts to his neighbors in middle America may seem corny, but ''there's so much noise out there,'' Mr. Lyski said. ''You need a little something to break through the clutter.''
The brand character has been ''extensively tested,'' he added, ''and we're very happy with the results'' in areas like awareness.
In one television commercial, Scott points out to a neighbor the ''tiny voices crying out, 'Feed us,' '' on his lawn and how ''they're peckish to the point of starving.''
''Your grass, man, it's a living, breathing thing,'' Scott says. ''It's hungry, and you've got to feed it with Scotts Turf Builder.''
In another commercial, Scott extols to a couple the virtues of a new product, the Snap Spreader System, describing it as ''a new day for lawn care.'' There are also commercials for other products like Scotts Turf Builder With Plus 2 Weed Control.
Scott directs viewers to a demonstration at Scotts.com, the Scotts Web site, where visitors will find Scott introducing himself with encouraging comments like ''Finding the right way to care for your lawn is as easy as clickin' a mouse.''
Brand characters who double as mnemonic devices are beloved by Madison Avenue despite the eye-rolling they may generate among sophisticates. The reason is that many of them, from Speedy Alka-Seltzer to the Geico gecko, have been deemed successful.
In this instance, ''everybody in a neighborhood has a Scott, someone with the best yard,'' said Scott Crockett, a principal at Richards.
(Asked about his given name, Mr. Crockett laughed and offered that ''Stan made me change my name,'' referring to Stan Richards, the founder and head of Richards.)
The character is ''a way to symbolize an expert who knows about lawns, and leads you to Scotts as the ultimate expert,'' Mr. Crockett said.
Another purpose the character serves, he added, is ''to unite the products under one campaign, unite the media spend under the Scotts brand.''
As for whether Scots are known as lawn-care experts, apart from those who look after golf courses, Mr. Crockett said the character has ''a back story'' centered on growing up in Scotland and having ''a love for lawns.''
''He moved to this country and maintained that love for lawns,'' he added, ''and he loves Scotts because Scotts loves lawns.''
''We've got a long list of ways to develop the character in stages,'' Mr. Crockett said, particularly in social media.
''With a character like this, social media is a delight,'' he added.
Scott may have the luck of the, er, um, Irish in that the campaign is coming out as a mild winter has encouraged consumers to begin planning their spring lawn-care chores earlier.
''We've seen searches on 'lawn and garden' climbing on the Internet,'' Mr. Lyski said, which he also attributed to the fact that tasks like ''painting a room, yard care, landscaping, gardening'' are ''affordable'' forms of home improvement in a challenging economy.
There is also a new media agency for Scotts, MEC, part of the GroupM unit of WPP, as Scotts Miracle-Gro consolidates media assignments for all brands at MEC.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lawn advice from the character Scott, right, is a staple of a new advertising campaign by the Scotts Miracle-Gro Company. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); BRANDING (78%); RETAILERS (76%); SOCIAL MEDIA (75%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); FERTILIZERS (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (70%); RADIO ADVERTISING (70%); HOME CENTERS (70%); MOBILE MEDIA (70%)

COMPANY: SCOTTS MIRACLE-GRO CO (84%); DENTSU INC (70%)

TICKER: SMG (NYSE) (84%); 4324 (TSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325311 NITROGENOUS FERTILIZER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2873 NITROGENOUS FERTILIZERS (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (70%); OHIO, USA (69%); NEW YORK, USA (55%) SCOTLAND (90%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



512 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: Trade Issues With China Flare Anew

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- A month after Vice President Xi Jinping's visit to the United States and Europe, the brief trade policy detente between China and its two biggest export markets is about to end.
Five separate issues -- involving auto parts, cars, solar panels, anti-subsidy laws and rare earth metals -- are all likely to see action by American officials, European officials or both, starting as soon as this week.
On Tuesday, in fact, the United States, the European Union and Japan plan to file a formal ''request for consultations'' with China at the World Trade Organization about Chinese restrictions on exports of rare earth metals. President Obama will personally announce the move, a senior administration official said.Such a request is the first step in a process that will lead to a full-fledged legal case at the W.T.O. by early summer unless China unexpectedly agrees to the West's demands to ease the export of rare earths -- materials vital to various sophisticated technologies.
That move and the other trade issues are likely to meet Chinese resistance, particularly as senior officials in Beijing are jockeying for position ahead of a Communist Party conclave this autumn that is expected to choose a slate of leaders for the country for the next five years or more. 
Compounding the trade tensions is the prospect of revived frictions over China's currency policies.
After rising fairly consistently against the dollar for nearly two years, helping quiet Western criticism that Beijing has kept the renminbi artificially low, the currency has begun to weaken again, making Chinese exports more competitive on the global market. On Monday, the Chinese currency fell further against the dollar, after China's central bank lowered its daily target for the currency. It has now fallen 0.5 percent against the dollar so far this year, after rising 4.7 percent last year.
For the last month, American and European officials had mostly deferred action on trade tensions with China. The United States, seeking a good start with Mr. Xi, who is expected to become China's top leader next winter, postponed acting on the solar panel trade dispute until March to avoid colliding with the Chinese official's Valentine's Day visit to the White House.
But China is seldom popular during election years in the United States, and this year is no exception. Mitt Romney and Congressional Democrats and labor unions have little in common politically -- except that they have all called for tough trade policies toward China. It would be politically difficult for the White House to ignore the outcry.
The European Union, for its part, has also been fairly quiet in the last month about Chinese trade policies, as it lobbied for a public commitment of Chinese money to ease the European debt crisis. But that sense of crisis has cooled somewhat, now that Greece has succeeded in reaching a debt reduction deal with its private creditors. And senior European Union officials have concluded that even if Beijing does decide to lend money toward a European bailout after two years of resistance, it would not be enough to make a significant difference, according to a person with a detailed knowledge of European deliberations on the issue who was not authorized to comment publicly.
The Chinese commerce ministry had no comment Monday on the American and European trade tensions.
Few if any trade issues between the West and China have been as acrimonious in the last several years as rare earth metals, which are crucial to a wide range of sophisticated technologies, from iPhones and energy-efficient lighting to electric cars and smart bombs. China has shown a willingness to use its near monopoly on rare earth production as a trade weapon, sharply reducing shipments to the West through export taxes and quotas that have forced many companies to move factories to China.
The United States and European Union now plan to challenge those export taxes and quotas. Their legal filing at the W.T.O. in Geneva on Tuesday is also expected to include tungsten, a metal used to harden steel and other materials. China is the world's leading producer of tungsten and has restricted tungsten exports as well.
Japan will join the United States and European request for W.T.O. consultations on rare earths, people involved in the discussions said. Japan has avoided W.T.O. cases against China until now, wary of antagonizing its much larger neighbor or of reawakening Chinese hostility over Japanese atrocities during World War II. But the rare earth embargo in 2010 was a deeply emotional issue in Japan, reminding many there of how dependent their island nation is on imported natural resources.
A W.T.O. appeals panel ruled in late January that China must eliminate its export taxes on nine widely used industrial materials, not including rare earths or tungsten. The panel strongly criticized China's export quota system, saying the policies favored Chinese domestic manufacturers over their global competitors that also need the same raw supplies.
The panel did leave open the possibility that the separate system of quotas could be reformed instead of being scrapped entirely. Chinese trade officials are to join the W.T.O.'s monthly dispute-settlement meeting for all member nations in Geneva on March 23 to discuss the matter.
But Chinese commerce ministry officials have already told Chinese state-controlled media that they do not plan to change their rare earth policies in light of the W.T.O. appeals panel decision.
In the United States and Europe, lawmakers, unions and businesses have been chafing at what has seemed to them like Western delay in addressing the rare earth issue. The other four trade issues now also likely to move to center stage are these:
AUTO PARTS About 150 members of the House and Senate are preparing to send a letter to President Obama this week asking him to investigate whether China has violated American trade laws by helping its auto parts manufacturers become big suppliers to the United States market. The president is expected to refer the letter to the new interagency trade enforcement task force he announced in January during his State of the Union address.
CARS After promising late last year not to discriminate against foreign products in government procurement, China unexpectedly released this month a draft list of automobiles that government officials may buy. All of the more than 140 models are Chinese brands, with no foreign nameplates -- even though most foreign brands are now made in China, including the Audis and Buicks popular with Chinese officials.
Federal procurement practices in the United States allow the purchase of foreign brands, including imports as well as foreign brands produced in the United States, although critics contend that American government agencies tend to show an informal preference for Detroit brands anyway.
SOLAR PANELS The United States Commerce Department is scheduled to release on March 20 an initial decision on whether China has illegally subsidized solar panel shipments to the United States. The department is widely expected to impose retroactive tariffs on the Chinese products.
ANTI-SUBSIDY CASES Congress has just passed, and the administration has indicated that President Obama will soon sign, a law that would retroactively revise some American trade laws to 2006. The move would help American companies and labor unions bring anti-subsidy cases against companies in nonmarket economies like China.
Quick action on trade, though, can sometimes create new problems. In mid-December, a federal appeals court in Washington ruled that off-road tires from China could not be subjected to the anti-subsidy taxes the Commerce Department had tried to impose. The court said Congress had never explicitly stated that nonmarket economies like China's could be accused of giving preferential subsidies to local manufacturers.
Congress has quickly responded by passing a law that awaits President Obama's signature, making such cases retroactive to 2006 -- the year that the Commerce Department began letting anti-subsidy cases be filed against China.
But Andrew Schroth, a trade lawyer in the Hong Kong office of Grunfeld, Desiderio, Lebowitz, Silverman & Klestadt who sometimes represents the Chinese commerce ministry in trade cases, said that the United States could be violating its W.T.O commitments by making such a legislative change without first consulting China.
''The U.S. is trying to change the rules on them,'' he said.
The Obama administration is already seeking a rehearing of the December appeals court decision. The administration wants to argue that Congress has always implicitly allowed anti-subsidy cases against nonmarket economies -- a stance that would be harder for China to challenge at the W.T.O.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Solar panels are one of the issues creating tension for the United States, Europe and China. Others include cars and auto parts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER PARKS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); LOBBYING (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); EXPORT CONTROLS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); EURO CRISIS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); TRADE DISPUTES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); DEBT CRISIS (60%); LABOR UNIONS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MITT ROMNEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); HONG KONG (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



513 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: China Talks of More Lending but Less Currency Growth

BYLINE: By IAN JOHNSON

 BODY:
BEIJING -- As China seeks a soft landing for its bubble-prone economy, senior economic officials said on Monday that they might encourage bank lending, while also hinting that the country's currency might not appreciate as rapidly as it has in recent years -- a contentious issue in the United States presidential election this year.
Speaking at a news conference, Zhou Xiaochuan, the governor of the Chinese central bank, said bank reserve requirements -- the percentage of deposits that banks must hold back -- could be loosened further after having been eased already last month. 
''We have a lot of room to adjust the reserve ratio,'' Mr. Zhou said. ''On the other hand, it is necessary to see whether there is a necessity to adjust.''
The reserve ratio was tightened throughout 2010 and 2011 after a huge government stimulus program of bank lending set off a bubble in real estate prices.
In the first two months of this year, these measures began to bite, and bank lending fell -- possibly faster than officials had expected. Normally, as many as a quarter of all bank loans in a year are made in this two-month period. This year, however, only 18 percent of the expected bank loans for 2012 were made, implying either sharply slowing demand for loans or bank liquidity problems.
Andrew Batson, head of research for GK Dragonomics, an economic analysis firm in Beijing, said the Chinese political leadership had decided to increase bank lending but sought to strike a balance.
Recent data showing that car sales have slowed and value-added industrial production has been slower than expected have created the expectation in some circles that the leadership will again respond with a large stimulus, he said. Government policy, however, is to let growth fall from the double-digit pace of the last decade to about 7.5 percent in hopes of fostering higher-quality growth.
''The way they responded to the 2008 downturn gave the perception that they'll ride to the rescue,'' Mr. Batson said. Speaking of the Chinese prime minister, he said, ''Wen Jiabao and others have been saying that 'Yes, we know that growth is slowing, but the cavalry is not coming.' ''
One tool the government has said it would use is currency. Speaking at the same news conference, Mr. Zhou's deputy in charge of foreign currency, Yi Gang, implied that recent rapid rises in the value of the Chinese currency were unlikely to be duplicated in the near future.
''We will continue with the reform to have an exchange-rate regime that is more market-based,'' Mr. Yi said.
As Mr. Yi was making his comments, the central bank, the People's Bank of China, lowered its daily peg for the currency, the renminbi, to the dollar, and it fell to its lowest point in seven weeks. The renminbi has fallen 0.5 percent this year after gaining 4.7 percent last year.
United States politicians say that China's currency, which is not freely convertible, is pegged artificially low against the dollar, making Chinese exports cheaper and hurting American producers.
At the news conference on Monday, Mr. Zhou said China was especially worried about Europe and its chronic sovereign debt crisis.
''The world economy is highly globalized with a very active flow of capital worldwide,'' he said. ''All of these factors will have an impact on our monetary policy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Zhou Xiaochuan, governor of the People's Bank of China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NELSON CHING/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (57%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (50%)

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (84%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



514 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: Officials In U.S. Debate Speeding Afghan Pullout

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and ERIC SCHMITT; Reporting was contributed by Alissa J. Rubin, Matthew Rosenberg, Graham Bowley and Rod Nordland from Kabul, Afghanistan, and by Elisabeth Bumiller en route to Kyrgyzstan.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration is discussing whether to reduce American forces in Afghanistan by at least an additional 20,000 troops by 2013, reflecting a growing belief within the White House that the mission there has now reached the point of diminishing returns.
Accelerating the withdrawal of United States forces has been under consideration for weeks by senior White House officials, but those discussions are now taking place in the context of two major setbacks to American efforts in Afghanistan -- the killings on Sunday of Afghan civilians attributed to a United States Army staff sergeant and the violence touched off by burning of Korans last month by American troops.
Administration officials cautioned on Monday that no decisions on additional troop cuts have been made, and in a radio interview President Obama reaffirmed his commitment to the Afghan mission in spite of the recent setbacks, warning against ''a rush for the exits'' amid questions about the American war strategy. ''It's important for us to make sure that we get out in a responsible way, so that we don't end up having to go back in,'' Mr. Obama said in an interview with KDKA in Pittsburgh. 
Any accelerated withdrawal would face stiff opposition from military commanders, who want to keep the bulk of the remaining American troops in Afghanistan until the end of 2014, when the NATO mission in Afghanistan is supposed to end. Their resistance puts Mr. Obama in a quandary, as he balances how to hasten what is increasingly becoming a messy withdrawal while still painting a portrait of success for NATO allies and the American people.
The United States now has just under 90,000 troops in Afghanistan, with 22,000 of them due home by September. There has been no schedule set for the withdrawal of the remaining 68,000 American troops, although Mr. Obama said last year that the drawdown would continue ''at a steady pace'' until the United States handed over security to the Afghan forces in 2014.
At least three options are now under consideration, according to officials at the White House, the Pentagon and the State Department. One plan, backed by Thomas E. Donilon, the national security adviser, would be to announce that at least 10,000 more troops would come home by the end of December, and then 10,000 to 20,000 more by June 2013.
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has been pushing for a bigger withdrawal that would reduce the bulk of the troops around the same time the mission shifts to a support role, leaving behind Special Operations teams to conduct targeted raids. Mr. Biden has long said that the United States mission in Afghanistan is too broad and should focus primarily on a narrow counterterrorism mission against insurgents seeking to attack the United States.
Mr. Obama's military commanders, meanwhile, want to maintain troops in Afghanistan as long as possible. If cuts have to be made, the commanders favor making them at the end of 2013, after the fighting season is largely finished. Any troop cuts made midyear would mean that those forces would not be available during the main fighting season, which runs from spring to early fall.
''We've come up with several options, but they're back-of-the-envelope options,'' said a senior military official, who said the internal discussions were just now beginning to focus on the costs, logistics and security risks of each plan.
Additional troop reductions would be consistent with a shift in mission that Mr. Obama plans to announce at a meeting of NATO members in Chicago in May. Under this plan, American troops would step away from the lead combat role to a supporting mission focused primarily on counterterrorism and training Afghan security forces. Mr. Obama will not announce the next troop reduction at the NATO meeting, aides said on Monday, but the size of the reduction will flow from the NATO decision on when to shift the mission in Afghanistan from combat to support.
In his news conference last week, Mr. Obama called the goal for the NATO meeting to make ''sure that the transition is not a cliff, but that there are benchmarks and steps that are taken along the way.''
Benjamin J. Rhodes, one of the president's senior national security advisers, said in an interview on Monday that ''the trajectory we've set here is one of transition and Afghan sovereignty.'' He added, ''We have a goal here of having the Afghans move into the lead and having us steadily pulling back.''
Once the United States and its allies agree on the timing for the shift in mission --Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta has already said that it will take place as early as mid-2013 -- the administration must decide exactly when the remaining 68,000 troops will come home. Already, debate there has fallen along familiar lines, according to the officials.
Gen. John R. Allen, the commander of allied forces in Afghanistan, is expected to face tough questioning on the mission and the pace of withdrawal in Congressional hearings scheduled for next week. ''The campaign is sound,'' General Allen said in an interview on Monday with Wolf Blitzer of CNN. ''It is solid. It does not contemplate, at this time, any form of an accelerated drawdown.''
His comments were similar to those of Mr. Panetta, who told reporters on Monday while flying to Kyrgyzstan that the killings of Afghan civilians a day earlier would not undermine United States strategy in Afghanistan or speed up a planned drawdown of American troops over the next two years.
One prominent supporter of the Afghan mission, Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, warned that steep troop cuts before 2014 could jeopardize General Allen's ability to carry out the mission. ''You don't put a man in charge of a war and undercut his ability to do his job,'' Mr. Graham said in a telephone interview.
The shootings on Sunday, and the burning of the Korans, come at a time when Afghans seem increasingly uncertain about their country's fate once the Americans withdraw. Asylum applications to other countries are at an all-time high, while passport applications have overwhelmed the Afghan Foreign Ministry's ability to process them. More than 500 people line up outside the passport office in Kabul every morning even in the bitterest weather.
Many respected Afghans have fled the country or lost their jobs, including the head of the country's Central Bank and the deputy head of the Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission. Meanwhile, analysts say the Afghan economy appears more and more to be built on the Western aid that has enriched the country's elite, who have taken much of the money out of the country. Cash moving through Kabul International Airport has gone up drastically in the past year, so that now about $4 billion is leaving the country, in a legitimate annual economy of about $15 billion.
Little of that is expected to be mentioned publicly at the Chicago meeting. Mr. Obama and the NATO allies, European and American officials said, must instead present a picture of success that includes the possibility of reconciliation talks with the Taliban and a NATO withdrawal that is coming only after a job well done.
''The critical issue in Chicago is for the president to make the case that the military picture is good, the insurgency has been weakened, and the Afghan security forces are ready to take over,'' said Vali Nasr, a former State Department official under the Obama administration who worked on these issues. ''And that reconciliation is under way.''
Mr. Obama will be discussing the NATO mission in Afghanistan when he meets with Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain on Tuesday and Wednesday. A European official said Monday that it was imperative that the United States and its NATO partners project a public face to the Afghans that while NATO troops will be leaving Afghanistan, the West will not abandon the country. ''The most important thing now is the messaging,'' the official said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American soldiers on patrol in Nangarhar Province this month. About 20,000 American troops are set to leave in September, but some officials want to pull out as many more by mid-2013. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK DE CASTRO/REUTERS) (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); TERRORISM (75%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



515 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Rating Falls as Poll Reflects Volatility

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and MARJORIE CONNELLY; Allison Kopicki, Marina Stefan and Dalia Sussman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Despite improving job growth and an extended Republican primary fight dividing his would-be opponents, President Obama is heading into the general election season on treacherous political ground, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
At a time of rising gas prices, heightened talk of war with Iran and setbacks in Afghanistan, Mr. Obama's approval rating dropped substantially in recent weeks, the poll found, with 41 percent of respondents expressing approval of the job he is doing and 47 percent saying they disapprove -- a dangerous position for any incumbent seeking re-election.
The poll provides a statistical reminder of how unsettled and unpredictable this year's political landscape remains. Just one month ago, Mr. Obama reached a critical benchmark by winning approval from 50 percent of Times/CBS News poll respondents, his re-election prospects lifting along with confidence that the nation was finally emerging from the aftermath of the Great Recession.
Mr. Obama's approval numbers measure his performance against expectations. But elections are choices between candidates, and on that score, he showed greater resilience in the poll. 
In a hypothetical matchup against his most likely Republican opponent, Mitt Romney, Mr. Obama had a 47 percent to 44 percent advantage, a statistical dead heat given the poll's margin of sampling error of 3 percentage points. Against Rick Santorum, the president drew 48 percent compared with 44 percent. In both cases, the difference between the candidates was slightly smaller than it was last month.
In the head-to-head matchups, Mr. Obama also maintained much of the advantage he had built in the last year among important constituencies, including women, although he lost some support among women over the past month, even as the debate raged over birth control insurance coverage.
Americans are still expressing confidence that the economy is staying the same or getting better, with those who believe that outnumbering those who view the economy as getting worse by nearly three to one. (Then again, 75 percent view the nation's financial picture as ''fairly bad'' or ''very bad.'')
Mr. Obama appears to be retaining much of his gains among important demographic groups, erasing inroads that Republicans made in 2010, especially among women. But his falling approval rating in the last month extended to his handling of both the economy and foreign policy, the poll found. And his weakening position cut across all major demographic groups, even among those with which he has kept an edge over his Republican challengers: independents, moderates, college graduates and younger voters.
Sharp as the drop in Mr. Obama's approval rating was in the Times/CBS News poll, it was not in isolation. The latest ABC News/Washington Post poll, released on Monday, also reported a drop in Mr. Obama's overall approval rating, to 46 percent from 50 percent last month. The latest tracking poll from Gallup, also released Monday, showed Mr. Obama with an approval rating of 49 percent.
Yet, polls capture only a particular moment in time, and can be influenced by the way questions are asked or the mix of people who are surveyed. In The Times/CBS News poll, the margin of sampling error could mean the president's approval rating is as high as 44 percent or as low as 38 percent, at a 95 percent confidence level. The telephone poll was conducted March 7 to 11 with 1,009 adults nationwide.
Mr. Obama's aides have expressed concern for weeks that rising gas and fuel prices and outside forces like the turmoil overseas or a spike in unemployment could harm his political standing.
The decline in Mr. Obama's approval rating has occurred as Americans are confronted by rising gas prices on filling station billboards and the evening news. Republican presidential candidates have sometimes tried to connect the price increases to the Obama administration's approach to Iran.
Mr. Obama's drop was particularly pronounced among low-income households that may be feeling the pinch of the higher gas prices -- as well as increases in prices for groceries and some retail items -- more than others.
Over all, 54 percent of poll respondents believed that a president can do a lot to control gas prices, as opposed to 36 percent who believe they are beyond a president's control.
''I think just being the president of the United States of America, you would have some type of control over gas pricing,'' said Jamie Haber, 39, an independent voter of Orlando, who voted for Mr. Obama in 2008 but says he will not this year. ''We're out here doing everything we can to make a living, and gas prices keep going up,'' he said in a follow-up interview.
While the Republican candidates for president have for the most part been united in their criticism of Mr. Obama over his handling of Iran, the public is more or less evenly divided on his approach, the poll found, with 42 percent approving and 39 percent disapproving.
The public is similarly split on what the United States should do if Israel seeks to force an end to Iran's nuclear program through a military attack. Almost half, or 47 percent, said the United States should support such an attack, while 42 percent said it should stay out of any conflict.
In spite of a considerable dip in approval for Mr. Obama's handling of foreign affairs -- to 40 percent from 50 percent a month ago -- nearly 58 percent said they were somewhat or very confident in his ability as commander in chief, giving him an edge over his Republican rivals.
In the race for the Republican presidential nomination, Mr. Santorum was supported by 34 percent of Republican primary voters and Mr. Romney by 30 percent, a difference that is within the poll's margin of sampling error of plus or minus 6 percentage points for that group. Newt Gingrich was supported by 13 percent, and Ron Paul's support dropped to 8 percent.
As the primary race shifts once again to the South, where Mr. Romney has had trouble, Republican primary voters in the survey continue to view him as having the best chance to beat Mr. Obama in the fall, by far.
On the economy, however, nearly three-quarters said they were somewhat or very confident in either Mr. Romney's or Mr. Santorum's ability to make the right decisions. And while more than a third of Republican voters said Mr. Romney was ''not conservative'' enough, only 11 percent said that about Mr. Santorum; 70 percent said his views on most issues are ''about right.'' Mr. Santorum also led 41 to 27 percent over Mr. Romney among women, while men were more evenly divided.
In recent weeks, there has been much debate over the government's role in guaranteeing insurance coverage for contraception, including for those who work for religious organizations. The poll found that women were split as to whether health insurance plans should cover the costs of birth control and whether employers with religious objections should be able to opt out.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama arrived at Richmond International Airport on Monday for a campaign trip. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) CHARTS: Voters on the Presidential Race
President Obama's Approval Rating
 The Birth Control Debate (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); WOMEN (77%); STATISTICAL METHOD (76%); STATISTICS (76%); APPROVALS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (61%); OIL & GAS PRICES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RICK SANTORUM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



516 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Supporters of Iranian Group Face Scrutiny

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- For more than a year, prominent former American officials have been giving well-paid speeches in support of an Iranian opposition group that is fighting to reverse its 15-year-old designation by the State Department as a terrorist organization.
Now the Treasury Department appears to have begun an inquiry to see whether the speaking fees were being paid by the group, the Mujahedeen Khalq, or People's Mujahedeen, known as the M.E.K. Americans are prohibited by law from doing business with designated terrorist groups. 
Edward G. Rendell, the former Democratic governor of Pennsylvania and an outspoken supporter of the M.E.K., said on Monday that William Morris Endeavor, which handles his speaking engagements, received a subpoena last week seeking information on fees he had received for M.E.K.-related speeches.
The Treasury Department declined to comment on whether it is conducting an investigation. But the subpoena to Mr. Rendell, earlier reported by The Washington Times, raises the possibility that a long list of former officials who have accepted fees to speak on behalf of the M.E.K., including former directors of the Central Intelligence Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, could come under scrutiny for any payments traced to the group.
Mr. Rendell, a former chairman of the Democratic National Committee, said he had given seven or eight speeches since July calling for the M.E.K. to be taken off the terrorist list and estimated that he had been paid a total of $150,000 or $160,000. Mr. Rendell said he had been told that his fees came from Iranian-American supporters of the M.E.K., not from the group itself.
The M.E.K. has a history of carrying out terrorist acts against both the Islamic government of Iran and the shah's government that preceded it, and at least six Americans died in such attacks in the 1970s, according to a Rand Corporation study of the group. But Mr. Rendell and other American supporters say the group ceased such violent acts many years ago and should no longer be on the terrorist list.
Mr. Rendell expressed puzzlement that a subpoena would be issued now, more than a year after former high-ranking American officials began giving paid speeches on behalf of the group.
Even as the Treasury Department inquires about his fees, he said, the State Department has asked him and several other former American officials to act as informal envoys between the State Department and the M.E.K. in tense negotiations after the Iraqi government ordered the group to vacate its camp north of Baghdad.
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton has urged the group to move more than 3,000 supporters from Camp Ashraf, where they have lived for many years, to a site near Baghdad's international airport, as a first step toward leaving Iraq. She said last month that the group's cooperation in the move would be a factor in the State Department's forthcoming decision on its request to have the terrorist label dropped.
In recent weeks, about 800 of the M.E.K. supporters have made the move. But the group's leaders, based in Paris, have repeatedly complained about conditions in the new location, and both United States and United Nations officials are concerned that the group might not complete the relocation, possibly provoking Iraqi officials.
The M.E.K., which supported Saddam Hussein and is described by critics as a cult, has faced open hostility from the current Iraqi government, which has close relations to Iran. Iraqi security forces clashed last year with M.E.K. supporters at Camp Ashraf, resulting in the death of at least 36 of the camp residents.
Mr. Rendell said he thought it was a ''disgrace'' that M.E.K. supporters had been killed with weapons supplied by the United States and despite promises of security for the camp from the Bush administration. He said he agreed to speak up for the group in part because he was dismayed by the violence and never would have spoken for the money alone.
''I made a lot of money last year,'' Mr. Rendell said. ''I don't need the money. I would never sacrifice my reputation for any amount of money.''
A spokesman for the Treasury Department, John Sullivan, said that while he could not discuss any ''potential investigation,'' American citizens and legal residents were ''generally prohibited from engaging in transactions with or providing services'' to the M.E.K. or any other terrorist group.
''The Treasury Department takes sanctions enforcement seriously and routinely investigates potential violations of sanctions laws,'' Mr. Sullivan said.
Other former officials who have accepted fees for speaking in support of the M.E.K. said on Monday that they and their agents had not received subpoenas. Some did not respond to inquiries. The fees have ranged from $15,000 to $30,000 for a brief speech, though some invitees have spoken free.
Among former officials who have spoken for the M.E.K. at conferences are two former C.I.A. directors, R. James Woolsey and Porter J. Goss; a former F.B.I. director, Louis J. Freeh; a former attorney general, Michael B. Mukasey; President George W. Bush's first homeland security secretary, Tom Ridge; President Obama's first national security adviser, Gen. James L. Jones; as well as prominent Republicans, including Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New York City mayor, and Democrats like Howard Dean, a former governor of Vermont.
The conferences, as well as newspaper and television advertisements, have been organized by advocacy groups in the United States, including the Iranian-American Community of Northern California. That group did not immediately return a request for comment, but Mr. Rendell said he had met numerous well-to-do Iranian Americans at the group's events and believed that their donations covered the costs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Former Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania at a rally last year for the Mujahedeen Khalq. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE LUIS MAGANA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (61%); AIRPORTS (50%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (64%)

ORGANIZATION: MUJAHEDIN-E KHALQ ORGANIZATION (90%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (64%)

PERSON: ED RENDELL (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (86%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



517 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: Springsteen Tops British Chart

BYLINE: By JAMES C. MCKINLEY JR.

 BODY:
Bruce Springsteen has still got it as far as the British are concerned. His new album, ''Wrecking Ball'' (Columbia), was the top-selling long-play recording in the United Kingdom last week, according to the Official Charts Company. It was the ninth time Mr. Springsteen, 62, has scored a No. 1 album in Britain, going back to ''Born in the U.S.A.'' in 1984. 
The latest release is full of protest songs and working-class anthems, inspired by the recession in the United States. Though the themes of income inequality and the loss of the American Dream are familiar ones in Mr. Springsteen's work, his latest effort with the E Street Band features a wider range of sounds and studio concoctions than anything he's done in recent years, incorporating rock, Irish folk music, gospel strains and a large New Orleans-style brass section into the mix.
Mr. Springsteen starts a United States tour to promote the album on March 18 in Atlanta. On Friday night, he gave a group of 1,500 invited guests and contest winners an intimate preview of this year's show when he played the Apollo Theater in Harlem to celebrate Sirius XM's 10th anniversary.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECORD RELEASES (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%)

COMPANY: SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (54%)

TICKER: SIRI (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (55%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (55%)

PERSON: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



518 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: Pepsi Chief Shuffles Management to Soothe Investors

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
Indra K. Nooyi's vision of PepsiCo as a company that sells nutritional products -- not just sodas and salty chips -- has been hailed as a sound long-term strategy by management consultants and nutritionists almost since her arrival at the company nearly six years ago.
But Wall Street was never that impressed.
''I've always seen that more as P.R. than reality,'' said Donald Yacktman, a longtime investor in PepsiCo through the Yacktman Funds. ''To focus on that would be sort of like the tail wagging the dog. The most important piece of the company is Frito-Lay, then Pepsi.'' 
On Monday, Ms. Nooyi, the chief executive, announced several management changes clearly intended to reassure investors, who have become impatient over PepsiCo's anemic stock price and the signature brand's loss of market share in the United States. The moves also aimed to reassure them that the company was not drifting too far from the products that made it famous -- and a good investment -- no matter what it plans for health and nutrition. The shifts also address concerns in the financial world that PepsiCo has no succession plan in place.
John Compton, who most recently ran Frito-Lay and PepsiCo's other foods business in the Americas, will take the newly created job of president. He assumes responsibility for all of the company's global beverage, snack and nutrition groups, as well as its global operations and marketing.
Taking his place as chief executive of the food division is Brian Cornell, a PepsiCo veteran who most recently headed Sam's Clubs for Wal-Mart Stores. Rumors were circulating at a snack foods conference last week that PepsiCo was trying to hire Mr. Cornell, who was also being wooed by Avon. The appointment of Mr. Compton, along with Mr. Cornell's return to the company, made it clear that PepsiCo would be leaning more heavily on its past.
Together with executives like Zein Abdalla, chief of PepsiCo Europe; Hugh Johnston, its chief financial officer, and Albert Carey, head of its North American beverage business, they comprise a bench team that offer the company's board some choices if Ms. Nooyi's plans to reinvigorate it fail, or if she suddenly leaves. She has been mentioned as a possible candidate to lead the World Bank.
''PepsiCo has been underinvesting in their core businesses, but the damage hasn't been permanent and the plans they have to address it should work,'' said Ali Dibadj, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.
The company recently introduced some new products from its tried and true brands, like Doritos Jacked, and entered into a partnership with Taco Bell that puts a taco into a Doritos shell.
Later this month, Pepsi Next, a midcalorie soda made with a combination of artificial sweeteners and high fructose corn syrup, will go on sale in the company's biggest new soda introduction in years.
And last month, Ms. Nooyi announced that PepsiCo would spend $500 million to $600 million in new marketing, much of it on the core brands.
''A C.E.O. in this position has to be a remarkable person with great vision and the foresight to proactively change the company, yet in the short term take some hits because the path getting from here to there is not straightforward,'' said Rajiv Lal, a professor at Harvard Business School.
Ms. Nooyi's tenure at the helm of PepsiCo has been marked by her efforts to improve the nutritional quality of the food and drinks that it sells and her conviction that the company's long-term future is tied to that strategy.
She hired Derek Yach, a former World Health Organization official, as senior vice president of global health and agricultural policy, a new position.
The company began paying more attention not only to the impact its food was having on consumer health, but how its business practices were affecting economies and environments. It began working with poor farmers in Latin America and Africa to develop crops that it could use in its healthier products and put its Sun Chips in a biodegradable bag.
And in perhaps the ultimate heresy for a soda company, PepsiCo in 2010 decided not to advertise on its Pepsi Cola brand during the Super Bowl.It instead gave away money in grants awarded for charitable ideas selected through a contest on Facebook called Pepsi Refresh.
This approach turned Ms. Nooyi into a media darling and a favorite panelist at the Clinton Global Initiative and the World Economic Forum, conferences where the rich and famous mingle with Nobel Prize winners and academics and policy makers.
But marketing experts dismissed Pepsi Refresh as an interesting idea that failed to sell any soda and consumers hated the eco-conscious bag because it was noisy.
Investors grew restive as Pepsi's stock stayed stuck at the same or near the same price it was when Ms. Nooyi became chief executive in 2006, and the company's return on capital has fallen because of acquisitions made primarily to support the healthy foods strategy.
Then last spring, Beverage Digest, a trade publication, reported that Pepsi had lost its No. 2 position in the United States to Diet Coke in 2010 and panic set in -- even though Pepsi sales continued to grow internationally.
It may not be that Ms. Nooyi so much took her eye off the beverage business as that she bet on the wrong executive to run it, in the eyes of many analysts. In 2008, she brought Massimo F. D'Amore, the PepsiCo stalwart who had led the company's takeover of Quaker Oats and overseen its Latin American operations, to head its North American beverage business, encompassing Pepsi, Tropicana, Gatorade and Mountain Dew.
His rule -- it can hardly be described any other way -- led to the exodus of more than a dozen senior PepsiCo marketing executives, according to advertising agency leaders in New York.
Nor did his decision to hire Peter Arnell, a Manhattan branding adviser, lead to stunning gains in market share. The redesigned Pepsi logo was greeted with applause, but changes in Tropicana packaging confused consumers, as did a strategy to transform Gatorade into a drink that would appeal to the more committed sports enthusiast.
In 2007, PepsiCo sold 783 million cases of Gatorade, according to Beverage Digest. By 2010, it sold 650 million. ''The brand got ahead of itself, attracting too many consumers too quickly who drank it as a lifestyle beverage and then migrated away,'' said John Sicher, the digest's editor.
Coca-Cola moved in, pricing its Minute Maid juices and Powerade sports drinks competitively, and suddenly PepsiCo was losing market share with brands that had been dominant.
Mr. D'Amore recently retired and Tropicana and Gatorade seem to have stabilized. Mr. Sicher said he thought Gatorade had probably sold more than 700 million cases last year, while Tropicana has done well with its new plastic carafes. Consumers also seem to like the new Trop50 line of watered down orange juice, which PepsiCo developed after research showed that many calorie-conscious consumers were doing that on their own.
Small positive signs like that, combined with the operational changes Ms. Nooyi have made, seem to have bought her some time. ''I think she's saved her neck for a year, but they had better really start delivering,'' Mr. Dibadj said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Indra Nooyi, chief of Pepsi-Co, has concentrated on nutrition as a long-term strategy for the company. (B1)
 John Compton has the newly created job of president. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUTRITION (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); SUCCESSION PLANS (78%); SNACK FOODS (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); NEW PRODUCTS (74%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); MARKET SHARE (68%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (61%)

COMPANY: FRITO-LAY INC (91%); PEPSICO INC (90%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (60%); TACO BELL CORP (58%); WAL-MART STORES INC (53%)

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (90%); WMT (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (91%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (90%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (60%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (53%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (53%)

PERSON: INDRA K NOOYI (90%); ALBERT P CAREY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



519 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: The Consumer: Pills' Risks Complicate Long Wait For Sleep

BYLINE: By RONI CARYN RABIN

 BODY:
Talk about sleepless nights.
Patients taking prescription sleep aids on a regular basis were nearly five times as likely as non-users to die over a period of two and a half years, according to a recent study. Even those prescribed fewer than 20 pills a year were at risk, the researchers found; heavy users also were more likely to develop cancer.
Unsurprisingly, the findings, published online in the journal BMJ, have caused a quite a stir. Americans filled some 60 million prescriptions for sleeping pills last year, up from 47 million in 2006, according to IMS Health, a health care services company. Panicked patients have been calling doctors' offices seeking reassurance; some others simply quit the pills cold turkey.
Some experts were quick to point out the study's shortcomings. The analysis did not prove that sleeping pills cause death, critics noted, only that there may be a correlation between the two. And while the authors suggested the sleeping pills were a factor in the deaths, those who use sleep aids tend as a group to be sicker than those who don't use them. The deaths may simply be a reflection of poorer health. 
Still, the findings underscore concern about the exploding use of sleeping pills. Experts say that many patients, especially the elderly, should exercise more caution when using sleep medications, including the non-benzodiazepine hypnotics so popular today, like zolpidem (brand name Ambien), eszopiclone (Lunesta) and zaleplon (Sonata).
''If someone comes to me on a sleeping pill, usually my tactic is to try to take them off it,'' said Dr. Nancy A. Collop, president of the American Academy of Sleep Medicine and director of the Emory Sleep Center in Atlanta, who was an investigator in a clinical trial of Lunesta five years ago.
The non-benzodiazepine sedative hypnotics, on the market since the late 1980s, are believed to be safer and less likely to be abused than benzodiazepines or barbiturates. But many people take them for years, even though most are approved only for short-term use and generally their safety and effectiveness have not been evaluated beyond several weeks in clinical trials. (One exception is Lunesta, which was tested for up to six months.)
Some data suggest that the medications do not even do what they promise all that well, said Dr. Steven Woloshin, a professor of medicine at the Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice.
''The definition of insomnia is that you get less than six and a half hours of sleep, and it takes you 30 minutes or more to fall asleep,'' said Dr. Woloshin, who is advocating for new labeling that spells out how well a drug actually works compared with a placebo. ''But even when the drugs work better than placebos, and they don't always, people still don't fall asleep in less than 30 minutes, and they still don't sleep much longer than six hours.''
And, the clinical trials show, some still feel groggy the next day, a side effect of the drugs.
Data from the largest trial reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration when it approved Sonata found the drug did not extend sleeping time, Dr. Woloshin pointed out; subjects on a 10-milligram dose and those taking a placebo both slept 6 hours 20 minutes on average. And those on the drug took 36 minutes on average to fall asleep during the first week of the trial, only 14 minutes less than the control group needed to fall asleep.
One in 20 said they felt sleepy the next day, and some reported memory problems.
Data from a large trial of Lunesta, also reviewed by the F.D.A., showed that subjects slept 37 minutes longer than a control group, but got only 6 hours 22 minutes of sleep, and it still took them 30 minutes to fall asleep; it took the subjects on placebo 15 minutes longer.
Even setting aside the controversial new study, the risks of popular sedative hypnotics can be significant. They can trigger severe allergic reactions in rare cases and may increase breathing problems; they can worsen depression, often a cause of sleeplessness.
They can contribute to confusion that affects judgment and behavior and have been implicated in falls that can be fatal for older adults. They may be involved in overdoses in combination with alcohol, and their use raises the risk of car accidents.
Patients who use hypnotics also have reported engaging in complex and bizarre behaviors while they are in a half-awake, half-asleep state, from raiding the fridge in the middle of the night to having sex, talking on the phone and even driving.
Drug company officials say the sedative hypnotics have been shown to be both safe and effective, though like other prescription sleeping pills, they may carry some risks.
The study published last month, by researchers from the Viterbi Family Sleep Center at Scripps Clinic in San Diego, was not the first to tie sleeping pills to an increased risk of death. A 2007 study in Norway of nearly 15,000 people found men were 1.5 times as likely to die and women 1.7 times as likely to die if they used sleeping pills. A 2010 Canadian study of more than 14,000 people found users were 1.36 times as likely to die as non-users.
A 2009 Swedish study that followed several thousand men and women for 20 years found that men who were regular users of hypnotics were 4.5 times as likely to die, while women were twice as likely to die.
In the latest study, researchers used health system medical records to compare survival rates of 10,529 patients who used hypnotic drugs with 23,671 people who used none during the same period. Non-users were a much healthier group, but the researchers were able to compare users and non-users with the same chronic conditions. They did not, however, have access to critical information about psychiatric diagnoses, nor did they know the causes of death.
''We think there are many things going on, not just one,'' said Dr. Daniel F. Kripke, the paper's lead author. He believes the drugs may worsen depression and may damage DNA, leading to cancer.
Representatives of drug companies making popular sleeping pills were critical of Dr. Kripke's study. For one thing, they said, the observation period was too short to conclude that the drugs could contribute to the development of cancer. Sanofi-Aventis, maker of Ambien, issued a statement calling the new study ''highly questionable.''
So what is an insomniac to do?
Nothing rash. Quitting sleeping pills abruptly can result in serious withdrawal symptoms and agitation, not to mention sleepless nights. Patients must taper off the medication over many weeks, experts say.
If sleeplessness is a chronic problem, talk to your physician. Ask for a thorough evaluation to determine if an underlying medical or psychiatric condition may be the cause; sleeplessness can also be a side effect of some medications. Consider asking for a referral to a doctor who specializes in sleep medicine.
Practice good ''sleep hygiene'' - habits that are conducive to sleeping well. Have a set bedtime and adopt a pre-sleep ritual, like reading. Do not nap during the day. Do not watch television or use the computer before going to sleep. Avoid exercise, nicotine, alcohol, caffeine and spicy food for several hours before going to sleep. Block out light and noise from the bedroom.
Some studies suggest that cognitive behavioral therapy can be effective in combating insomnia. If your insurance does not cover face-to-face counseling, there are online programs that have been found to be successful for both insomnia and anxiety.
Readers may submit comments or questions for The Consumer by e-mail to qconsumer@nytimes.com
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JON HAN) (D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SLEEP DISORDERS (89%); SLEEP (89%); DRUG SAFETY (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); HEALTH CARE (73%); CANCER (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); WRITERS (71%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (70%); CLINICAL TRIALS (68%)

COMPANY: CARE SERVICE CO LTD (71%); IMS HEALTH INC (57%)

TICKER: 2425 (JASDAQ) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS621610 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (71%); SIC8082 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (71%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



520 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: White House Outlines Plan To Help With Job Search

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Obama administration officials said a proposal to consolidate two existing job training and placement programs would help hundreds of thousands of people get training they need to find work.
The plan would combine the Trade Adjustment Assistance program, which provides training and aid to workers who lost their jobs because of foreign competition, and the Workforce Investment Act Dislocated Worker program, which offers some benefits to those who lose their jobs for other reasons. 
The proposal, called the Universal Displaced Worker Program, would assist as many as one million workers with counseling and job searches.
''Too many Americans do not know where to go or who to call when they need help with re-employment,'' Gene B. Sperling, director of President Obama's National Economic Council, said Monday on a conference call to outline the plan.
About half of the workers eligible would be able to use $4,000 a year in assistance to pursue skills for jobs in new industries. About 150,000 workers were able to finish training under the existing programs, according to the administration.
The change requires legislation by Congress and it would be paid for by combining what is now spent on the two programs with an additional $28 billion over 10 years, as outlined in Mr. Obama's budget for the 2013 fiscal year.
Mr. Sperling said the plan broadened the definition of a displaced worker so that more people would get the higher benefits received for jobs lost to foreign competition.
Mr. Sperling said that while the economy was improving, some people had lost jobs that were not coming back and needed new skills. The president's 2013 budget includes $50 million to make it easier for the jobless to get access to employment centers, including online access.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Job seekers examining a bulletin board at the One Stop Career Link Center in San Francisco. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID PAUL MORRIS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); DISMISSALS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



521 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: In 'Battle' With Media, A New Tactic in Ecuador

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN; Maggy Ayala contributed reporting.

 BODY:
QUITO, Ecuador -- The fight goes on for Rafael Correa, the president of Ecuador, who has been in a relentless donnybrook with his country's news media almost from the day he took office five years ago.
At the end of February, he pardoned three executives and a columnist at El Universo, a leading conservative newspaper, who were sentenced to three years in jail and fined $42 million in a libel lawsuit brought by the president. But it was not a truce, Mr. Correa explained. He is no less irate at what he calls the dictatorship of the media.
''We are in a battle,'' Mr. Correa said in an interview in the presidential palace last week. Comparing his campaign against the news media to Abraham Lincoln's shutdown of newspapers sympathetic to the South during the Civil War, he said that he had set his sights squarely on the wealthy, who, for generations, have exerted economic and political power here.
''Part of that power is the communications media that belongs to the elites that have destroyed Latin America,'' he said, under the gaze of a portrait of Eugenio Espejo, an 18th-century writer often considered the father of Ecuadorean journalism. 
Mr. Correa's televised anti-media tirades, his lawsuits against journalists and a new law that could handcuff coverage of elections all bring comparisons to President Hugo Chavez in Venezuela. Mr. Chavez, a socialist ally of Mr. Correa, has shut down Venezuelan television and radio stations that produced unfavorable coverage. Last week, the Supreme Court in Venezuela upheld a $2 million fine against Globovision, a television station aligned with the political opposition, for its coverage of a deadly prison riot last summer, which communications regulators deemed inflammatory.
''This struggle for free speech in Ecuador as well as in Venezuela is pretty basic,'' said Jose Miguel Vivanco, executive director of the Americas division of Human Rights Watch. ''It's driven and motivated by an effort to concentrate power and to intimidate and harass critics by representing them as promoters of lies.''
In Venezuela, several newspapers carry harsh criticism of Mr. Chavez, but their circulation is relatively small. By removing a major television station from the air in 2007, Mr. Chavez eliminated an opposition voice that reached most areas of the country.
Mr. Correa has taken center stage on the issue.
The most recent cause for concern among journalists in Ecuador is a new electoral code that bans the news media from printing or televising material that would favor one candidate to the detriment of another. That would prevent newspapers and other outlets from endorsing candidates, which is just fine with Mr. Correa, who says that the news media should leave the business of politics to politicians.
In the United States, he says, there are liberal and conservative news outlets that create a balance. ''Here the poor don't have anyone,'' he said.
But journalists say that under the new code, printing an interview with a candidate could be seen as favorable coverage, while investigating the track record of another could be interpreted as detrimental -- meaning that routine election coverage could risk breaking the law.
Mr. Correa said that was not the intention.
This month a court said it had granted a request from journalists' groups to temporarily block that section of the electoral code.
Mr. Correa's confrontations with the news media were cast into stark relief last month with the prison sentences and huge fines that Ecuador's top court reaffirmed in the Universo lawsuit, which the president filed, using a criminal defamation statute that has been condemned by human rights advocates as a harsh curb on free speech.
At issue was a column written by Emilio Palacio, a columnist who was also the editorial page editor, in which Mr. Palacio accused the president of giving troops permission to open fire on a hospital during a police uprising in September 2010.
The column offered no evidence to support the accusation, which Mr. Correa denied.
Mr. Correa also sued a pair of journalists who wrote a book, ''The Big Brother,'' about government contracts given to the president's brother, arguing that they falsely asserted he knew of the deals. A judge ruled that the reporters should pay $2 million. At the same time that Mr. Correa pardoned the Universo defendants, he promised to withdraw the lawsuit against the ''Big Brother'' authors and said they would not have to pay the fine.
The defendants in both cases contended that judges could not make an unbiased decision in a case involving the president, whose influence extends to all branches of government. Mr. Correa said he exercised no influence over the judges.
Juan Carlos Calderon, one of the book authors sued by Mr. Correa, said that the press was a headache for any president, but in Mr. Correa's case, ''the remedy is decapitation.''
Rather than trying to raise media standards, Mr. Calderon said, Mr. Correa was seeking to stifle criticism.
''This entire policy has been to tame the press,'' Mr. Calderon said.
Mr. Calderon and his co-author, Christian Zurita Ron, are also being sued by Maria de los Angeles Duarte, a minister in Mr. Correa's government who has objected to the way she was identified in a caption in the first edition of the book. Journalists say that is an example of how other public officials are following Mr. Correa's lead in taking an aggressive stance toward the press.
In several other cases in recent years, journalists in Ecuador have gone to jail or been fined in defamation cases involving public officials. But many journalists also acknowledge that the country's press barons long used media properties to further their business and political interests.
A new Constitution passed in 2008 required banks to divest nonfinancial assets, including those in the media business. A new law bars anyone with more than a 6 percent stake in a media company from owning other types of businesses. Media advocates say that would weaken media companies economically.
Mr. Correa is an outsize personality in a country of 14.5 million people, about a third of them living in poverty, according to the World Bank. He first took office in 2007, and he is widely expected to run again in elections next February.
His government is highly popular, especially among poorer Ecuadoreans who say he has made their lives better. He has built good highways, created social support programs and tried to instill a sense of efficiency in government.
For all his criticism of the press, Mr. Correa is very media savvy. His government controls about 19 media properties, including television and radio stations and newspapers. He has taken a page out Mr. Chavez's book by headlining a weekly town hall-style program on state television. Like Mr. Chavez, Mr. Correa frequently orders television and radio stations to carry state programming praising his leadership and attacking his critics, including journalists.
A startling amount of time during Mr. Correa's public appearances is spent lambasting the news media. At times he can sound like a left-wing version of Rudolph W. Giuliani, recalling the former New York mayor's sharp tongue and disdain for the press.
Many Ecuadoreans agree with Mr. Correa that the media has long reflected the interests of the country's leading families. But they also say they were offended by the size of the $42 million award he won in court and are growing weary of his anti-media drumbeat.
''We are in agreement'' with the president, said Manuela de Oquendo, 62, a clothing merchant, strolling in a Quito suburb with her husband, Galo Oquendo, 64. ''But it gets tiresome, every week the same thing.''
Mr. Correa said that he would keep up the pressure on his adversaries in the news media.
''If we keep being dominated by the same powers, we will keep having the same results, people richer than in the United States and poorer than in Africa,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Rafael Correa in his Quito palace. Journalists say that following a new code could hamper their reports about elections. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARLA GACHET FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (77%); LIBEL & SLANDER (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); CRIMINAL FINES (76%); SENTENCING (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); CIVIL WAR (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PARDONS (72%); PRISONS (71%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (70%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (70%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (67%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); RIOTS (50%); SUPREME COURTS (50%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR (97%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2012



522 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: Scale and Energy Booms, Continued

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Consider Pennsylvania. 

 BODY:
My posts on the North Dakota energy boom, and its lack of implications for state that actually have a significant number of people, have gotten quite a few comments. So I've hit on what I think is a useful comparison: North Dakota versus Pennsylvania.
You see, PA has also had a significant resource boom, thanks to fracking. Here's employment in mining and logging:
They're actually just about equal-sized booms.
But the impact on unemployment is, well, not the same:
The reason, of course, is that Pennsylvania has around 20 times as many people as North Dakota.
And what this shows is that even if you believe in claims that lifting environmental restrictions and all that would lead to a big expansion in drilling, mining, and all that, the effect on overall US employment would be tiny; using North Dakota as a model is just silly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MINE WORKERS (87%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



523 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: Race, Republicans and Realignment

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Is ethnocentrism the core of modern conservatism? 

 BODY:
So long as I'm arguing with Jonathan Chait about the nature of the Republican Party, I should say something about his recent case for treating white ethnocentrism as the core of contemporary conservatism. Here, from his sometimes-perceptive, sometimes-less-so essay on the Republican Party in 2012, is Chait's race-based read on the making and unmaking of a conservative majority:
... the dominant fact of the new Democratic majority is that it has begun to overturn the racial dynamics that have governed American politics for five decades. Whatever its abstract intellectual roots, conservatism has since at least the sixties drawn its political strength by appealing to heartland identity politics. In 1985, Stanley Greenberg, then a political scientist, immersed himself in Macomb County, a blue-collar Detroit suburb where whites had abandoned the Democratic Party in droves. He found that the Reagan Democrats there understood politics almost entirely in racial terms, translating any Democratic appeal to economic justice as taking their money to subsidize the black underclass. And it didn't end with the Reagan era. Piles of recent studies have found that voters often conflate "social" and "economic" issues. What social scientists delicately call "ethnocentrism" and "racial resentment" and "ingroup solidarity" are defining attributes of conservative voting behavior, and help organize a familiar if not necessarily rational coalition of ideological interests. Doctrines like neoconservative foreign policy, supply-side economics, and climate skepticism may bear little connection to each other at the level of abstract thought. But boiled down to political sound bites and served up to the voters, they blend into an indistinguishable stew of racial, religious, cultural, and nationalistic identity.
Obama's election dramatized the degree to which this long-standing political dynamic had been flipped on its head ... Today, cosmopolitan liberals may still feel like an embattled sect-they certainly describe their political fights in those terms-but time has transformed their rump minority into a collective majority. As conservative strategists will tell you, there are now more of "them" than "us."
In last week, he made a version of the same point, arguing that "the glue holding together the contemporary Republican agenda - the fierce defense of entitlement spending on the elderly, the equally fierce opposition to welfare spending on the young, the backlash against illegal immigration, the nationalist foreign policy, the cultural traditionalism - is ethnocentrism. Republicans are defending the shared cultural prerogatives of a certain group of people."
I'll go this far with Chait: Conservative identity politics is a real phenomenon, and its various tropes (a "real America" menaced by Europhiles and "takers") owe a great deal to a Jacksonian, Scotch-Irish understanding of Americanness that's always been more tribal than ideological. Certainly it's impossible to listen to Glenn Beck or Rush Limbaugh for any length of time without hearing hints of what you might call a politics of white grievance - not white supremacism, but a "who's looking out for us?" resentment that resembles nothing so much as the left-wing identity politics of a figure like Jesse Jackson. And I've argued before that the changing demographic composition of the United States is likely to make debates over taxes and entitlements more polarizing than they otherwise would be, by making the old-young gap a white-brown gap as well.
But there are also problems with leaning too heavily on race and ethnicity as explanations for party platforms and coalitions. For one thing, the racial element, once cited, tends to crowd every other truth - encouraging partisans to impute the lowest possible motives to their ideological rivals, and to sidestep legitimate debates by casting their opponents as purely tribal actors in thrall to a "stew of racial, religious, cultural, and nationalistic" appeals. The racial element in the crime debate, for instance, was invoked by liberals throughout the 1970s and 1980s as a means of delegitimizing conservative arguments about criminal justice. But conservatives were largely right about crime in the 1970s and 1980s and liberals were very often wrong. Likewise the immigration debate today: Restrictionists may or may not have the better of the argument (I think they do, in many cases), but either way Sheriff Joe Arpaio's birtherism tells us very little about what our immigration policy should look like. So too the debate over higher education funding, cited in Chait's follow-up: Complaining that stingy old people don't want to invest in our multiracial future is a good way to evade the question of what, exactly, all our existing higher education spending is really buying us. And I could go on.
A second problem is that race-centric theories of politics often break down as soon as you move from the general to the particular. The broad liberal narrative of a Nixon-era Republican Party that exploited racial tensions to win over white Southerners has some truth to it, for instance. But as Gerard Alexander has argued, the Republican takeover in the South started in the periphery rather than the Deep South, among younger voters rather than older ones, among New South transplants rather than Old South segregationists, among upper-middle class suburbanites rather than rural whites, and so on. Apart from the unusual 1964 election, when the Republican nominee was explicitly associated with opposition to the Civil Rights Act, whites in the least racially-polarized areas of the South moved toward the Republican Party first; the Bull Connor/George Wallace demographic followed later.
The same complexities show up in Republican politics today. If defending the privileges and prerogatives of white seniors were as essential to contemporary conservatism as Chait suggests, you would expect the most right-wing and Tea Party-identified Republicans to be the most committed to "the fierce defense of entitlement spending on the elderly." But from Rick Santorum to the DeMint-Paul-Lee troika in the Senate, more conservative figures in the party tend to be more committed to phasing in entitlement reform rather than later, and the Paul Ryan plan's senior-friendly promise to preserve Medicare as-is for the over-55 population looks more like a play to the center than to the base. Likewise, Chait's "old white people" analysis would lead one to expect that Santorum, the last not-Romney True Conservative left standing, would be cleaning up among seniors in the primary campaign and losing among the young. But in mostrecentprimaries, the opposite has happened: Santorum is winning younger voters, while the more moderate-identified Romney wins the elderly.
Finally, in a polarized country, a racialized read on politics can easily cut both ways. To show you what I mean, I'll conjure up a race-centric portrait of the liberal future that mirrors Chait's race-centric portrait of the conservative past (and that helps explain why a politics of white grievance resonates with many Americans). Describing trends in American politics between the 1980s and the present, Chait writes that time has transformed the Dukakis-era "rump minority" of "cosmopolitan liberals" into a "collective majority." But the word "collective" is doing most of the work there, since obviously cosmopolitan liberals themselves are still just a fraction of the electorate. In reality, the realignment he's describing is primarily being driven by America's rising minority population, rather than by the (much more modest, and possibly tailing off) growth of liberal white college graduates. And this minority population is mostly a rising population, whose votes the contemporary Democratic Party tends to court not with dog whistles or racial codes or vague identity-politics appeals, but with very explicit and specific promises of special legal treatment (in hiring, government contracting, college admissions, immigration policy, etc.) based on their ethno-racial background. If these promises help cement a new Democratic majority, then (to repurpose Chait's analysis) the new progressive era he envisions will depend, no less than the conservative era that preceded it, on "ethnocentrism" and "racial resentment" and "ingroup solidarity." If anything, the racial element will be even more explicit: Chait's emerging Democratic majority will be less a rational coalition of ideological interests and more a kind of a race-based spoils system, in which progressive elites exploit a system of racial preferences designed to provide temporary assistance to the descendants of slaves to supply a permanent form of race-based patronage for America's fastest-growing ethnic group.
Is this an unfairly reductionist take on liberalism, the Hispanic vote and Democratic coalition politics? Absolutely. But it's no more reductionist or unfair than Chait's race-based analysis of what makes modern conservatism tick.

        
The Right and Romney
        
Chait on the Democrats, Frum on the Republicans
        
Those Not-So-Crazy Republicans
        
Huckabee, Santorum and the Republican Future
        
The Momentum of Ideas

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (95%); POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); IMMIGRATION (69%); CULTS & SECTS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); RELIGION (63%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (60%) conservatism; identity politics; immigration; liberalism; race; Republicans; the 1960s

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); GLENN BECK (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



524 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: Rising Tide of Jobs Lifts Most States, Not All

BYLINE: MOTOKO RICH


HIGHLIGHT: Jobs seem to be growing and unemployment receding across most of the United States, but there are still wide variations among the states, and in some the trend is still downward. 

 BODY:
The job market seems to be thawing and employers are gradually hiring, but a lot still depends on geography. Nevada continued its run as the state with the highest level of joblessness in January, with a 12.7 percent unemployment rate, down from 13.8 percent a year earlier, according to the Labor Department. 
 New York was the only state where the unemployment rate rose, to 8.3 percent from 8.2 percent a year ago. In New York City, unemployment shot up to 9.3 percent from 8.9 percent compared with January of last year.
 New York's rising state unemployment rate may have disguised other signs of health, however: New York added the second-highest number of payroll jobs in January, with 44,600; only Texas, with 67,200, added more. Florida, Pennsylvania and the District of Columbia lost jobs.
 North Dakota is still a labor market standout, with only 3.2 percent unemployed, down from 3.6 percent a year ago. The state, fueled by an oil boom, also enjoyed the largest percentage increase in payroll employment over the year.
 By contrast, Wisconsin, Alaska, Mississippi and Rhode Island all lost jobs over the 12 months. 

        
The North Dakota Miracle
        
Joblessness Still Highest in Nevada
        
Nevada Retains Highest State Unemployment Rate
        
Congrats, Michigan
        
The United States of Unemployment

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); TRENDS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%) states; Unemployment; States (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



525 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Marine Invaders, Coming to a Coast Near You

BYLINE: HILLARY ROSNER


HIGHLIGHT: Nemesis, a new Web site introduced by the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, tracks the spread of hundreds of invasive coastal species. 

 BODY:
Molgula manhattensis, the sea grape, is a greenish globule that sticks to oyster shells and can ruin aquaculture. Didemnum vexillum, fondly referred to as "rock vomit," forms yellowish spongy mats over not just rocks but non-mobile creatures as well, ultimately suffocating them. Diplosoma listerianum, which has no common name (D-List, anyone?), drapes itself in crusty layers over corals, grasses and other organisms.
A new Web site introduced last week by the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center aims to help managers of marine areas and to serve the public by providing detailed information about these and hundreds of other invasive coastal species. The site, called Nemesis (National Estuarine and Marine Exotic Species Information System), compiles data from published scientific papers and the Smithsonian's own surveys of coastal areas.
The first group of marine invaders to go live on the Web site are the tunicates, a taxonomic category sometimes referred to as sea squirts. The invasive tunicates that have achieved Nemesis fame all permanently attach themselves to surfaces like rocks, shells, dock or boats and then eat by filtering phytoplankton out of the water.
All three of these curious life forms have spread from their home turf to new marine areas around the globe, often impinging on native fauna, altering ecosystems and threatening local economies. Like many invasive marine organisms, they have spread beyond their native territories largely by attaching themselves to ship hulls. When a ship docks, the tunicates reproduce in new waters, leaving their larvae to colonize the area.
"A lot of tunicates can become a problem, especially for shellfish and aquaculture," said Monaca Noble, a biologist working on Nemesis. "It's a big problem if you're trying to grow mussels or oysters. It's also a problem in outcompeting native species."

For each species, the site shows its native and invaded habitat, indicated in green and red on a map. There's also yellow for "cryptogenic" regions, where scientists are not certain whether a species is native or not.
In addition to attaching to the outside of ships, known as "fouling," marine species also travel to distant seas in ballast water, fishing bait and via the commercial seafood trade.
According to the Smithsonian center, every part of the United States is affected in some way by non-native species.
Visitors to the Nemesis Web site can also browse through data on invasion patterns. A graph on the tunicate page shows a huge spike in tunicate invasions around the 1980s and 90s, which Ms. Noble says could have multiple explanations.
"It may be a difference in the number of vessels moving around," she said. "Or it could also be the number of people looking. It could be as simple as, there were a lot of surveys and people suddenly noticed them."
Even when no one notices that a species has invaded an area of the ocean, it still causes an ecological ripple. The Smithsonian effort could help foster better policies for coastal ecosystems by centralizing all of the available information.
Next up on the Nemesis site will be decapods, a far more familiar group of crustaceans that includes crabs, shrimp, and lobster.

        
On Our Radar: More Safety Violations for Massey Coal
        
Pace of Ocean Acidification Has No Parallel in 300 Million Years, Paper Says
        
On Our Radar: Trump Assails Wind Farm
        
On Our Radar: A Subglacial Lake
        
Warming Seas and Corals: A New Conundrum

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESEARCH INSTITUTES (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (91%); MARINE BIOLOGY (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); WEB SITES (90%); AQUACULTURE (89%); WILDLIFE (78%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (78%); BIOLOGY (78%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); SHELLFISH FARMING (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (75%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (74%); SEAFOOD (73%); COMMERCIAL FISHING TRADE (73%); FISHERIES (73%); ANIMALS (72%) Invasive Species; National Estuarine and Marine Exotic Species Information System; Oceans; Smithsonian Environmental Research Center; tunicates; Fishing, Commercial; Ships and Shipping; Smithsonian Institution; United States; fisheries; Research/Studies; Rivers; Science; wildlife

COMPANY: MOLINOS NACIONALES CA (MONACA) (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SMITHSONIAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH CENTER (91%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (84%) Smithsonian Institution

INDUSTRY: SIC2046 WET CORN MILLING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



526 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: What Teaching Students Can Learn from Poor, Urban Schools

BYLINE: KJ DELL'ANTONIA


HIGHLIGHT: A field trip to an urban school isn't enough to teach affluent college education students about educational inequality, but it's an excellent start. 

 BODY:
Hesston College is a small, two-year college in Kansas with the slogan "Start Here. Go Anywhere." Last month, a group of education majors did go somewhere: their professor took them to observe education at work in the inner city of Tulsa, Okla. For Hesston students, accustomed to doing their classroom observation in fairly affluent and rural areas, the trip was what their professor described as "cross-cultural."
Their visit is chronicled on the college's Web site. (Hat tip to Annie Murphy Paul, an extraordinary aggregator, for sharing it.) The young professor, Marissa King, a veteran of Teach for America, wanted to expose her students to the problems faced by students at a diverse high school that one of its teachers describes as "one of the roughest high schools in the city," where students "believe prison is more of a reality than college." (To coastal dwellers questioning whether the Midwestern Tulsa is truly "urban": I have been there, and it is.) Teachers at Central High hoped meeting college students might encourage the high school students to expand their dreams.
"The day was an eye-opening experience," said Bonita Garber of Bainbridge, Pa., a freshman. "The level of inequality in education because of economic status is mind blowing. No one ever believed these students could make anything of themselves, so they don't believe it either."
"Inequality in education" is one of those shibboleths that gets tossed around a lot, and often in ways that make those who have seen it in action question whether the speakers have really grasped the depth of what they're talking about. Professor King, at least, ensured that her students - whether they're future teachers, or just future voters - have had a glimpse of the struggles most of them didn't experience.
Of course, "low-income, disadvantaged, urban students" are not a species unto themselves, to be visited like the denizens of an old-school zoo. They're kids with lives and dreams and plans, who have spent years absorbing the struggles of the adults around them. Any rough, urban high school is a place where all that its students have seen and done comes together, which is just one of the many reasons that no single, targeted educational or other solution is going to bring about successful change in many young lives.
Understanding that fully takes more than just a field trip, but a field trip is a fine place to start - which makes this small college's effort one that more colleges should make.

        
Are Ninth Graders Ready for College Applications?
        
Should Home-Schoolers Get to Play for the Team?
        
What Should Vassar College Do About Its Admissions Mistake?
        
When Parents Can Opt Out of School Curriculums
        
Football and the Fear of Concussions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (94%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (75%); CURRICULA (73%); HOME SCHOOLING (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); PARENTING (61%) College; Education; high school; Teach for America; Colleges and Universities; Education (K-12); Equal Educational Opportunities; Families and Family Life; Parenting; Tulsa (Okla)

ORGANIZATION: Teach for America

GEOGRAPHIC: TULSA, OK, USA (93%) OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Tulsa (Okla)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



527 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Hires a New P.R. Chief

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: Richard Siewert Jr., the former counselor to Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, will lead the public relations effort at Goldman Sachs, replacing Lucas van Praag. 

 BODY:
Richard Siewert Jr., the man Goldman Sachs has been courting to lead its public relations effort, has been officially hired, according to an internal memo from the investment bank. 
Mr. Siewert, known as Jake, accepted a job from Goldman weeks ago. But it hadn't been formally announced until Tuesday because he had to clear corporate background checks, according to people with knowledge of the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak on the record. 
It's not known when Mr. Siewert, a former counselor to Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, will start at Goldman. Mr. Siewert was also entertaining a job offer from PepsiCo. 
Mr. Siewert's decision to take the job is a plus for the big Wall Street bank, which has had its fair share of negative headlines in recent years. It will also bolster the ranks in its public relations department, where a number of people have left recently. 
Mr. Siewert, who will also be given the title of managing director, will report to John F.W. Rogers, Goldman's chief of staff. Mr. Siewert declined to comment. 
Mr. Siewert will be replacing Lucas van Praag, Goldman's long-time public relations chief who is retiring from the firm. Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, recently announced Mr. van Praag's departure from the firm.
Here is a copy of the internal memo from Mr. Rogers:
PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Jake Siewert Joins Goldman Sachs as Global Head of Corporate Communications
I am pleased to announce that Jake Siewert has joined the firm as a managing director and global head of Corporate Communications. Jake will be responsible for directing the firm's global media relations efforts and for leading our team of corporate communications professionals. 
Jake served as counselor to the US Treasury secretary from 2009 to 2011, during which time he advised the secretary and also acted as his liaison to the business community. From 2001 to 2009, Jake worked at Alcoa, where he last served as vice president for Business Development, overseeing global mergers and acquisitions and focusing on growth in China and emerging economies. He joined Alcoa as head of global communications and public strategy, and later oversaw the company's global environment, health and safety efforts for several years. 
From 1993 to 2001, Jake held several positions in the Clinton administration, including serving as White House press secretary, the US government's principal spokesperson on foreign and domestic policy. He also served as deputy White House press secretary and as a special assistant to the president for economic affairs, working at the National Economic Council. 
Jake began his career in Washington in 1991 as communications director for the Democratic Governors Association. He is a 1986 graduate of Yale University, where he graduated summa cum laude with a degree in the Humanities. He also attended the law school of the University of California at Berkeley. 
Please join me in welcoming Jake to the firm and wishing him well in his new role. 

        
Goldman's P.R. Chief to Retire
        
Goldman at a P.R. Crossroads

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC RELATIONS (91%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (85%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (76%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (61%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (60%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%) Goldman Sachs; John F.W. Rogers; Lloyd C. Blankfein; Lucas van Praag; Richard Siewert Jr.; Treasury Department; Appointments and Executive Changes; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Siewert , Richard Jr.; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Revolving Door

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); PEPSICO INC (56%); ALCOA INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); PEP (NYSE) (56%); AAI (ASX) (52%); AA (NYSE) (52%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (52%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (52%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (69%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



528 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Ray Dalio's Former Assistant Tells All

BYLINE: KEVIN ROOSE


HIGHLIGHT: In a little-noticed blog post, a former personal assistant to Ray Dalio reveals stories about the Croc-wearing, paintball-shooting billionaire who founded Bridgewater Associates. 

 BODY:
Ray Dalio has been in the news quite a bit lately.
Last month, LCH Investments named Mr. Dalio the most successful hedge fund manager in history, with his flagship Pure Alpha fund having made $35.8 billion for investors since 1975. And this week, The Economist published a profile of Mr. Dalio that featured an insanely flattering quote from Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman. (Mr. Volcker said that Mr. Dalio's hedge fund, Bridgewater Associates, has "a bigger staff, and produces more relevant statistics and analyses, than the Federal Reserve.")
While sifting through Mr. Dalio's plaudits, we stumbled across a tidbit that, while less flashy than an Economist profile, might reveal more about the man himself : tales of life inside Bridgewater as told by Mr. Dalio's former personal assistant.
 Kathleen O'Grady, now a self-described "authenticity coach" based in Raleigh, N.C., wrote on her blog last July that she had spent about six months in 2004 working as an executive and personal assistant to Mr. Dalio (while also assisting Bridgewater's co-chief investment officer, Bob Prince, and Mr. Dalio's son Matt). 
"I learned more about self leadership in that six months than most people learn in a lifetime," Ms. O'Grady wrote of her time at Bridgewater.
Ms. O'Grady, reached by telephone on Tuesday, compared working for Mr. Dalio to "The Devil Wears Prada," a novel and film about an assistant to a demanding fashion magazine editor, in the sense that "I never knew what I was going to be handed next."
Inspired by an article in The New Yorker about her old boss, Ms. O'Grady shared some of the stories she collected while working for the enigmatic billionaire.
Ms. O'Grady remembers on her blog about how she was intimidated by Mr. Dalio during their first meeting:
It all started with the interview. After I had been vetted by the recruiter, Ray's assistant #1 and the woman whose place I was taking, I was brought back into meet with Ray. I don't recall much of what was said, but more so that he excused me after what seemed like the longest 10 minutes of my life. I left the conference room and made it back to my car in a complete blur.
Despite her nerves, Ms. O'Grady got the job, and took her place aside Mr. Dalio's other assistant, whom she characterized as "your typical high-functioning, high-strung, high-energy powerhouse." She described the duties as much like those of any other high-level executive aide:
With limited access to Ray's Outlook calendar I did my best to stay on top of his needs while also attending to Bob and Matt as needed. Often times the information I was left with was sparse and/or misleading. This helped me to develop and polish my skill of 'logistical anticipation'. I created a list of contacts and established strong relationships with them. This included my fellow assistants, Ray's driver, private chefs, owners of businesses that Ray frequented, and most importantly, Jim Bookman -- at the time, the most reliable and trusted IT person at the company.
Working for Mr. Dalio could be scary, according to Ms. O'Grady. On one occasion, she accompanied firm employees on a team-building retreat at Mr. Dalio's home in Vermont. Prodded to participate, she wound up firing shotguns and shooting paintballs with the rest of the group.
"I came home from the trip in pain, but with a renewed sense of limitlessness," she wrote.
While at Bridgewater, Ms. O'Grady did her best to adapt to the firm's well-known office culture, which is based on Mr. Dalio's doctrine of "radical transparency." (The philosophy, spelled out in a dense manifesto titled "Principles," prohibits gossip and encourages employees to air their grievances in public.)
Life at Bridgewater's headquarters in Westport, Conn., also involved camaraderie. Ms. Grady recalls the birth of a companywide athletic tradition:
One day in the summer of 2004 employees from the marketing and client service department decided they were going to coordinate a race, or "scrum" as they called it, through the moat-like stream that surrounded the buildings. When Ray got wind if [sic] this he was 'all-in'. Emails of the scrum went intra-company-viral in minutes, projections and statistics of who would be the winner came next, and then an official email from Ray himself, instructing all willing participants to "suit up" in the gym. There were a few candidates in that day and Ray walked into the offices where they were interviewing dressed in shorts, a T-shirt and his then famous Crocs.
Ray then invited the candidates to participate in the scrum. If I recall, two out of three of them agreed. Footage of the scrum was captured by interns and later turned into a slow-motion video set to "Eye of the Tiger."
Perhaps the oddest chapter in Ms. O'Grady's tenure under Mr. Dalio involved a bizarre errand.
Mr. Dalio had gone hunting with a Japanese client, she says, and when the client shot and killed a "very large and unique looking bird," Mr. Dalio had it stuffed and mounted as a gift. It fell to Ms. O'Grady to see that the bird got safely to Japan:
It was a particularly windy day in Westport, CT and I delicately placed the mounted bird in my passenger seat, gingerly wrapping the seat-belt around its midsection without mussing the feathers. Carrying the bird in and out of the post office and several shipping stores became more hilarious each time. People stared. I smiled back. Finally though, when I'd reached the last place in the area that I could try before getting back to the office on time, I wasn't going to take 'no' for an answer. The clerk gave me a look of disbelief when I placed the bird on the counter and I said, "I need to ship this to Japan." He just laughed at me.
I then looked at him sternly and said, "This is no laughing matter. This bird needs to make it to Japan in flawless condition or I will lose my job." The guy looked back at the bird and then back at me. By then I had used my acting skills and summoned some tears. Finally he agreed to try and crate the bird for shipment. I still don't know to this day if it made it past customs, but I was satisfied that I had not given up on my task.
Ms. O'Grady eventually left Bridgewater for reasons having nothing to do with avian taxidermy. But she reports that although working for Mr. Dalio could be challenging, she had no regrets about spending six months assisting the market maven. She signed her blog post "Authentically Yours, Kathleen" - a sign that for at least one ex-Bridgewater employee, Mr. Dalio's philosophy of extreme personal honesty seems to have made a mark.
Mr. Dalio did not immediately respond to a request for comment. In an interview, Ms. O'Grady said the the job at Bridgewater had been "a mixed bag."
However, she said, she harbors no ill will toward Mr. Dalio or her former colleagues at Bridgewater.
"I remember it fondly," she said.

        
Texas Teacher Pension Buys Bridgewater Stake
        
In Punishing Year for Hedge Funds, Biggest One Thrived

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (92%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (87%); EXECUTIVES (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (64%) Bob Prince; Bridgewater Associates; Katheen O'Grady; Ray Dalio; Dalio, Ray; Hedge Funds

PERSON: RAY DALIO (94%) Dalio, Ray

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (56%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



529 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: BB&T Restructures BankAtlantic Deal

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: The BB&#038;T Corporation has retooled its planned takeover of BankAtlantic in an attempt to appease a judge who previously blocked the deal for the beleaguered Florida bank. 

 BODY:
The BB&T Corporation retooled its planned takeover of BankAtlantic on Tuesday in an attempt to appease a judge who previously blocked the deal for the beleaguered Florida bank. 
The core terms of the deal, first announced in November, remain intact. BB&T, based in North Carolina, will still pay a $301 million premium to acquire roughly $2.1 billion in loans and $3.3 billion in deposits from BankAtlantic. 
BB&T initially agreed to buy only the best assets from BankAtlantic, declining to take on the soured loans weighing on BankAtlantic's returns and share price. BankAtlantic was stuck with the so-called bad bank -- nonperforming and troubled loans -- making it a controversial arrangement that echoed the deals struck during the financial crisis, when relatively healthy firms acquired assets from struggling banks. 
 But a Delaware Chancery Court judge threw a wrench into those plans, ruling last month that the original deal would unduly harm BankAtlantic's debt holders. 
Vice Chancellor J. Travis Laster said the deal violated the terms of BankAtlantic's trust-preferred securities, debt that BankAtlantic was planning to keep on its books. The securities, Mr. Laster said, should have prevented BB&T from poaching the best assets and leaving BankAtlantic with debt. 
Under the revised deal, and in a direct nod to the judge, BB&T agreed to assume the trust-preferred securities. The securities have an outstanding balance of roughly $285 million. 
In turn, BB&T will receive a 95 percent preferred interest in a new entity stocked with $500 million in risky loans that BankAtlantic originally planned to keep for itself. About half the loans are "performing," meaning that BB&T expects to fully recover its $285 million investment plus some extra cash to sweeten the deal, according to a BB&T statement. To provide additional assurances to BB&T, BankAtlantic will also provide a $35 million guarantee. 
"I am pleased to move forward with our planned transaction," BB&T's chairman and chief executive, Kelly S. King, said in the statement. "BankAtlantic remains a compelling strategic expansion that meets all of BB&Ts acquisition criteria." 
Mr. King added that he was "even more excited about the quality of the franchise," which will expand BB&T's footprint in the Southeast. 
Deutsche Bank Securities advised BB&T in the revised deal. Squire Sanders and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz provided legal counsel.

        
BB&T to Buy Assets From BankAtlantic
        
Despite a Spurt of Banking Deals, Pace Ahead Looks Slow

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PREFERRED STOCK (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); DIVESTITURES (79%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); LAWYERS (74%); JUDGES (73%); EXECUTIVES (65%) BankAtlantic Bancorp; BB&T; Kelly S. King; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; BB&T Corporation; BankAtlantic; BB&T Corporation|BBT|NYSE; Financial Services; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: BB&T CORP (98%); WACHTELL LIPTON ROSEN & KATZ (83%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BB&T Corporation

TICKER: BBT (NYSE) (98%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%) BB&T Corporation; BBT; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (98%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (98%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (98%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

PERSON: KELLY S KING (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



530 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Bain Defends Itself Amid Attacks on Romney

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Bain Capital has tried to distance itself from the Romney campaign, and the political scrutiny that comes with the election race. 

 BODY:
Bain Capital sent a letter to its investors late Tuesday that for the first time addressed the presidential campaign of the private equity firm's founder, Mitt Romney, and defended its record on job creation. 
"Most of you have been our partners for many years, and you know that we prefer to maintain a low public profile and to devote our energies to the work we do on your behalf," said the letter, which was obtained by The New York Times. "That hard work continues with enthusiasm, despite an unusual amount of media attention on the firm due to the presidential campaign."
As Mr. Romney has established himself as a front-runner for the Republican nomination, the business practices and investment record of Bain has come under intense scrutiny. Started in 1984 by Mr. Romney, Bain is now one of the world's largest private equity funds, with $60 billion in assets under management and holdings that include Michaels Stores, the retailer of arts and crafts, and Clear Channel, the radio and advertising giant. 
Bain has tried to distance itself from the Romney campaign, and its latest dispatch continues those efforts. The letter's first sentence noted that Mr. Romney retired from Bain Capital more than 13 years ago. (Mr. Romney, as part of his retirement agreement from the firm, has been paid a share of Bain's profits since his departure.)
The letter emphasizes that Bain is apolitical and its employees' views fall on all sides of the political spectrum. For example, Stephen Pagliuca, a Bain managing partner, ran unsuccessfully for the Democratic party nomination for the United States Senate seat formerly occupied by Ted Kennedy. 
"While we have a great deal of respect across our partnership for all those who pursue public service, including President Obama and Governor Romney, we are not a political organization and take no public position on any candidate," the letter said. "Many of our Managing Directors and employees make individual decisions to support causes and political candidates espousing a range of views, but we assure you that Bain Capital itself is separate from politics."
Bain also took a swipe at what it considered politicized attacks on Bain. 
"Mark Twain's famous witticism, 'Get your facts first, and then you can distort them as much as you please,' has unfortunately become a hallmark of today's political process," the firm said. 
The firm also promoted its investment record and record on job creation, highlighting that revenue at its companies increased by more than $105 billion since Bain's investment. It suggested that the news media and Mr. Romney's opponents were only focusing on the Bain's bad deals, noting that revenues grew in 80 percent of the more than 350 investments during the firm's ownership. The letter argued that revenue growth at Bain companies had a positive impact on local economies and employment. 
"While experts agree that calculating net job growth across a portfolio of companies is difficult to do with precision, the revenue growth in our companies has created hundreds of thousands of jobs over our 28-year history," the letter said. "This sharply politicized issue attracts enormous attention and lends itself to misleading anecdotes and cherry-picking of the record, but there should be no doubt that $105 billion of revenue growth is an economic engine with widespread benefits." 

        
Romney's Run Puts a Spotlight on Private Equity
        
Private Equity's YouTube Defense

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRIVATE EQUITY (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SEWING & CRAFT STORES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); RETAILERS (67%) Bain Capital; Elections; Mitt Romney; Republican Party; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Private Equity

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Bain Capital

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); TED KENNEDY (53%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



531 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Political Geography: Alabama

BYLINE: MICAH COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: FiveThirtyEight's look at the Republican electorate in Alabama. 

 BODY:
Our state-by-state profile of the Republican electorate -- a mixture of analysis from local experts, demographic data and past voting results -- lands today in the Deep South, first in Alabama, then in Mississippi. 
Gathering a sense of the political geography of these states seems particularly useful because past polling in both Alabama and Mississippi has not been terribly reliable. In any case, the polling we do have shows a close three-way race in both states among Newt Gingrich, Rick Santorum and Mitt Romney.
To get a better sense of Alabama, we consulted a few local experts: Steve Flowers, a longtime political columnist in the state, as well as two political science professors from the University of Alabama, Richard Fording and William H. Stewart.
Statewide, Republican voters in Alabama are overwhelmingly older and evangelical Christian. According to exit polls, 77 percent of Republican primary voters in 2008 described themselves as born-again or evangelical, and 56 percent were 50 or older. 
The Republican electorate is concentrated in suburban communities in the north and along the Gulf of Mexico.
Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor, carried Alabama in 2008 by four percentage points, besting Senator John McCain of Arizona, 41 percent to 37.
Most of Mr. Huckabee's support came from the counties that make up the state's Fourth Congressional District. The Fourth District is generally rural and has a heavily evangelical population based mostly in small towns. The district also has a higher share of blue-collar workers than any of Alabama's six other Congressional Districts.
In Alabama's primary on Tuesday, Mr. Santorum -- and perhaps Mr. Gingrich -- will most likely do well where Mr. Huckabee did well in 2008.
Mr. McCain did much better in southern Alabama than in the north. He won near majorities in the counties that make up the First Congressional District.
Southern Alabama's population is anchored in the Southwest, in Mobile County, and just to the east, Baldwin County. In Mobile County, the City of Mobile's economy revolves around its port, which helps serve Alabama's burgeoning automobile industry. Baldwin County is mostly condominium communities along the Gulf Shore. The Republican vote in both counties comes from suburban areas.
Republican voters in Southern Alabama tend to be hawkish on military matters, which helps explain Mr. McCain's strength in the area. There are a number of military installations in the region, including Fort Rucker northwest of Dothan and Maxwell Air Force Base in Montgomery.
Southern Alabama also includes the Black Belt. Originally named for the region's dark topsoil, the Black Belt consists of a string of counties with large African-American communities (you can see it clearly in the state's 2008 general election results). Few black Alabamans vote in Republican primaries, but white voters in this region tend to be more moderate on social issues.
A plurality of the Republican electorate in 2008, 47 percent, came from the Alabama suburbs, and Mr. Romney -- as he has this election cycle -- did well in and around cities in 2008. His strongest base of support then was along Alabama's northern tier, among voters in the state's Fifth Congressional District.
The Fifth District is dotted by defense and NASA-related installations. Workers in the Fifth District, particularly in Madison County, have helped develop everything from the United States' first ballistic missiles to the Space Shuttle and the Hubble Space Telescope.
Pinpointing geographic areas of strength for Mr. Paul is more difficult. He won just 2.7 percent statewide in 2008, and his support was dispersed relatively evenly throughout the state.
A tight three-way race is hard to keep track of, but watch Mr. Romney's vote share in the better-educated, affluent suburban counties. If he is only squeaking out wins in Madison, Jefferson, Shelby, Mobile, Baldwin and -- to a lesser extent -- Montgomery, his chances of winning the state drop significantly.
For both Mr. Santorum and Mr. Gingrich, meanwhile, the others' vote share in Alabama's rural, evangelical counties will largely determine whether either can surpass Mr. Romney. If either Mr. Gingrich or Mr. Santorum is consistently outperforming the other in the northern counties where Mr. Huckabee did well, then that candidate has a substantial shot at a statewide win.

        
Political Geography: Michigan
        
2008 South Carolina Primary Benchmarks
        
In G.O.P. Nomination Race, Geography Has Been Destiny
        
Five Paths Forward for G.O.P. Nomination
        
Romney Wins, but Turnout Lags

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (93%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); GEOGRAPHY (90%); POLITICS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); RELIGION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); SUBURBS (67%); MILITARY BASES (64%); ARMED FORCES (60%); AIR FORCES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%) 2008; 2012; alabama; political geography; primaries; Republicans; Politics

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (56%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOBILE, AL, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (99%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



532 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: Political Geography: Mississippi

BYLINE: MICAH COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: FiveThirtyEight's breakdown of the Republican electorate in Mississippi. 

 BODY:
By the time Mississippi held its Republican presidential primary in 2008, Senator John McCain of Arizona had all but secured the nomination, so the results are not terribly helpful in foreshadowing today's contest. Mr. McCain won the state with 79 percent of the vote. Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor, earned just 13 percent, and Representative Ron Paul of Texas received 4 percent. Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, had dropped out weeks earlier.
The bulk of the G.O.P. vote in Mississippi today is likely to come from just a few areas.
Republican voters are plentiful in the affluent suburbs east of Jackson, in Rankin County and south Madison County. Rankin County consistently has among Mississippi's lowest unemployment rates. Many Republican votes will also be cast in the northeast corner of Hinds County, where there are several wealthy neighborhoods in northeast Jackson. If Mr. Romney hopes to win the statewide vote, he will have to do well around Jackson.
In north Mississippi, Republican voters are clustered around Tupelo, an area that in the past was dominated by farms but now specializes in small manufacturing (this region is the hub of the nation's upholstered furniture industry). Rick Santorum, the former senator from Pennsylvania, will likely need to do well here to compete statewide.
Another bastion of G.O.P. voters in the north is just over the border from Memphis: DeSoto County, among the wealthiest and fastest-growing counties in the state. This ought to be a strong area for Mr. Romney.
Most Republican votes in the south of the state will come from the Biloxi-Gulfport region on the Gulf Coast. Casinos dot the shoreline there, and perhaps that more permissive attitude explains why it was Mr. Paul's strongest area of the state in 2008. With several military bases nearby, including Keesler Air Force Base, there's also a distinctly military feel to the Biloxi area. 
Now, the maps:
An earlier version of this post misspelled the name of the county just over the border from Memphis that is among the wealthiest and fastest-growing counties in Mississippi; it is DeSoto County, not DeSota. 

        
Political Geography: Alabama
        
Political Geography: Michigan
        
2008 South Carolina Primary Benchmarks
        
In G.O.P. Nomination Race, Geography Has Been Destiny
        
Five Paths Forward for G.O.P. Nomination

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); GEOGRAPHY (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); ARMED FORCES (67%); MILITARY BASES (67%); UPHOLSTERED FURNITURE MFG (66%); AIR FORCES (62%) 2008; 2012; mississippi; political geography; primaries; Republicans; Politics

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (88%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RON PAUL (58%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BILOXI, MS, USA (88%); JACKSON, MS, USA (79%); GULFPORT, MS, USA (78%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



533 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Would a Higher Top Tax Rate Raise Revenues?

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: With no hard evidence that raising tax rates on the wealthy affects investment and spending, there are clearly no logical choices except to raise income tax rates on the wealthy, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
On Friday, Prof. Allan Meltzer of Carnegie Mellon University, a well-known conservative economist, offered a commentary in The Wall Street Journal arguing against policies to equalize the distribution of income. 
His key piece of evidence is the chart below, from a study by the Swedish economists Jesper Roine and Daniel Waldenstrom, that shows the share of income accruing to the top 1 percent of earners in seven Western democracies. They all follow the same trend line, Professor Meltzer says, and it proves that "domestic policy can't be the principal reason for the current spread between high earners and others."
Leaving aside the fact that the ultrarich have gained far more in the United States than any other country in his sample and that there is no upward trend at all in the Netherlands, he seems to have missed an important implication of his own conclusion. 
If the rich are going to continue to get richer in low-tax countries and high-tax countries alike, then it must mean that high tax rates have far less of a disincentive effect on the rich than conservatives like Professor Meltzer continually proclaim.
He asserts that we should not raise tax rates on the wealthy, as President Obama has proposed, because it won't do anything to reduce the share of income going to the ultrawealthy and thereby equalize the distribution of income. For the sake of argument, I will concede the point. 
But there is another very good reason to raise taxes on the ultrawealthy: the government needs the revenue.

Although conservatives routinely deny that tax cuts have anything to do with budget deficits, the slightest bit of common sense says otherwise. According to the Congressional Budget Office, federal revenues will consume just 16.3 percent of gross domestic product this year. The postwar average is about 18.5 percent. 
The reason they are so much lower is because the huge tax cuts of the George W. Bush administration were extended by President Obama in 2010, along with an additional cut in the payroll tax that replaced an earlier Obama tax cut called the Making Work Pay credit. Without all these tax cuts, revenues would be about 2 percent of gross domestic product higher, according to the C.B.O.
Only in some fantasy world would it be possible to balance the budget without higher revenues. In the real world, it is impossible to balance the budget with revenues at 16.4 percent of G.D.P. Therefore, taxes will have to rise. The only question is who will pay more?
Everyone, I think, but the wealthy will have to pay a lot more, because they have a much greater capacity to do so than most Americans. If they don't pay more, then the rest of us will have to bear a higher tax burden or suffer having programs like Medicare, which almost everyone will benefit from eventually, decimated.
Republicans, however, are quite adamant that not only must the wealthy not pay any more in taxes - but, in fact, must have their taxes further reduced. Every Republican presidential candidate favors lower taxes on the wealthy. Mitt Romney, for example, has proposed cutting the top income tax rate to 28 percent from 35 percent.
While Republicans differ on how much taxes on the rich should be cut, they are united in their belief that under no circumstances should their taxes be increased, even though Republicans themselves wrote the law that would have raised taxes on the rich beginning on Jan. 1, 2011, absent the last-minute temporary extension of the Bush tax cuts to which President Obama agreed. The top rate is now scheduled to rise to 39.6 percent on Jan. 1, 2013.
A common reason given by conservatives for why tax rates must not be increased is that the government won't get much, if any, additional revenue and might even get less due to the Laffer curve. If tax rates are too high, they say, the rich will stop working and investing in job-creating businesses and instead spend all their time vacationing and seeking out tax shelters. Therefore, revenues will fall.
However, one never sees conservatives cite any empirical evidence in support of their contention. It is simply asserted as self-evident that the rich will go on strike, as they did in Ayn Rand's famous novel, "Atlas Shrugged," even though the nation clearly did quite well during times when the top income tax rate was far higher than it is now.
The reason for the conservative reluctance to estimate the revenue-maximizing top tax rate is that academic research generally shows that it is much, much higher than the current top rate or any that has been proposed by the Obama administration. The two latest studies are these:
1. A National Bureau of Economic Research working paper published in November by Thomas Piketty, Emmanuel Saez and Stefanie Stantcheva found virtually no supply-side effect from cuts in the top tax rate since 1975. That is, there was no significant increase in output resulting from them; hence there would be little negative output effect from raising the top rate. Consequently, the revenue-maximizing top rate may be as high as 83 percent, they estimate.
2. A National Bureau of Economic Research working paper published last month by Christina Romer and David Romer estimates that the revenue-maximizing rate is 84 percent. Even assuming a higher response by the wealthy to earning income - something economists call elasticity - than the Romers believe is likely, the top rate could still rise to 73 percent before a Laffer curve effect set in.
No one is suggesting that the United States go back to the top rate of 50 percent that prevailed during most of Ronald Reagan's administration, let alone the 91 percent rate of Dwight Eisenhower's. But it's clear that there is going to be continuing pressure to raise rates on the wealthy as long as the budget deficit remains a problem.
If, as Professor Meltzer has shown, the rich get richer regardless of the tax rates, there is no economic reason not to raise the top rate. Perhaps unwittingly, his research confirms that of other economists who say that we could get substantial additional revenues even if the top rate doubled.

        
Fanning the Flames of Class Warfare
        
Tax Code Not Aligned With Basic Principles
        
Tilting the Budget Process to the G.O.P.
        
How to Avoid Reinventing the Wheel on Tax Reform, Part 2
        
A Close Look at the Perry Tax Plan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TRENDS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); TAX RELIEF (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (86%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); TAX INCREASES (72%); CORPORATE TAX (64%); MEDICARE (64%) Bruce Bartlett; budget deficit; Daily Economist; Income Tax; Mitt Romney; politics; President Obama; Republicans; Ronald Reagan; tax rates; taxes; Meltzer, Allan; Federal Budget (US); Federal Taxes (US); Congressional Budget Office; Republican Party; Today's Economist

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%) Congressional Budget Office; Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); MITT ROMNEY (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Meltzer, Allan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



534 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: Auto Bailout Is Looking Better to the Public

BYLINE: ANNIE LOWREY


HIGHLIGHT: In 2008 and 2009, the federal rescue of the car industry was widely unpopular. Polls since then have shown a steady increase in positive sentiment. 

 BODY:
Those Eminem and Clint Eastwood advertisements just might have worked: Americans seem to be changing their minds about the once-loathed auto bailout. 
Back in 2008 and 2009, the Bush and Obama administrations, fearful about losing a major industry during the worst downtown since the Great Depression, stepped in to bail out and restructure Chrysler and General Motors - an effort that ended up costing taxpayers some $80 billion. 
It was, to put it gently, unpopular. In polls at the time, 3 in 4 Americans said Washington should not broaden its effort to help the carmakers, as it ended up doing; nearly 6 in 10 poll respondents opposed the bailouts once they happened; and 54 percent of people said they were "mostly bad for the economy." Largely negative polls accumulated through 2010 and 2011, too. 
But more recent polls seem to show a thaw in public opinion - even if the auto bailout remains relatively unpopular, as far as government initiatives go. A Gallup poll from February indicates that a majority of Americans still do not give a thumbs-up to the effort, but the approval and disapproval numbers have narrowed. And a Pew poll conducted a few weeks ago shows that an actual majority of respondents now support the bailout - a first.

What might account for some Americans' changing their minds? For one thing, the automakers that got Washington's help have returned to the black. Chrysler made $183 million in 2011, after losing $652 million in 2010. And G.M. made $472 million, cutting profit-sharing checks of up to $7,000 for its hourly workers in the United States. The companies have also added thousands of jobs over the past two years. And the motor-vehicle manufacturing industry as a whole has added 126,500 jobs, an increase of about 20 percent, since the end of the recession.
That has led to a huge surge in popularity for the auto industry. Indeed, in 2009, 59 percent of Americans had a very or somewhat negative opinion of carmakers. By last summer, 42 percent approved, with 32 percent disapproving. 
Because of those profits and the rising price of the automakers' stocks, the taxpayers will recoup much of their investment. In December, Steven Rattner, former head of President Obama's auto task force, estimated that the bailouts would end up costing taxpayers about $14 billion. 

        
... And Chrysler's Sunny Forecast
        
Socialism Then vs. Socialism Now for General Motors
        
G.M.'s Sunny Forecast
        
Saving Detroit, and Mexican Jobs
        
How Competition Saved New York

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); PRICE INCREASES (62%) auto industry bailout; Automobiles; Polls and Public Opinion

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); STEVEN RATTNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



535 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Study Warns of Economic Damage in a Keystone Pipeline Spill

BYLINE: DAN FROSCH


HIGHLIGHT: More than a million people work in agricultural or tourism jobs in the six states along Keystone XL's proposed route, and the economic costs could be considerable if a major spill were to occur, researchers at Cornell warn. 

 BODY:
 A report released on Tuesday by Cornell University's Global Labor Institute concludes that the economic damage caused by potential spills from the Keystone XL pipeline could far outweigh the benefits of jobs created by the project. 
The institute, which advocates the creation of union jobs in renewable energy and analyzes sustainability issues, said that more than a million people work in agricultural or tourism jobs in the six states along Keystone XL's route and that the economic costs could be considerable if a major spill occurred. 
The risks of an economically damaging accident are higher than those for conventional crude, the report said, because pipelines carrying oil sands crude are more prone to spills, an argument long made by opponents of the Keystone XL project. 
The report cited a spill from an Enbridge Energy pipeline in July 2010 that dumped about 843,000 gallons of oil sands crude near Marshall, Mich., and has been especially difficult and expensive to clean.
 "Given where the pipeline is scheduled to go, it's not inconceivable that a spill like the Enbridge pipeline spill could occur," said Sean Sweeney, the institute's director and a co-author of the study. "And if it contaminated a major waterway in a remote area, it could take a long time to deal with." 
TransCanada, whose application to build Keystone XL was rejected by President Obama in January, dismissed the report and cited an initial review by the State Department that found the pipeline would have little adverse environmental impact if operated properly. 
Terry Cunha, a spokesman for TransCanada, said the company stood by its projections that Keystone XL would create thousands of jobs. "Common sense will tell you that you can't build the largest infrastructure on the books in the U.S. right now without a significant number of people," he said. 
In turning away TransCanada's application in January, President Obama said a deadline imposed by Congress for deciding Keystone XL's fate did not allow sufficient time to complete environmental reviews. But he left open the door for the company to reapply for a fresh permit, and last month TransCanada announced its intention to do just that. 
TransCanada is also in the process of seeking permission to move forward with a southern portion of the 1,700-mile pipeline, from Cushing, Okla., to the Gulf Coast, which would not require the State Department's approval.
With that in mind, and with a decision on Keystone XL still likely to play a major role during the general election, foes of the pipeline were quick to hail Tuesday's report as the latest evidence that the project was unsafe. 
"This report turns the political discussions around job creation on its head," said Danielle Droitsch, an attorney with the Natural Resources Defense Council. "The pipeline will be an economic liability."

        
Canadian Official Defends Oil Sands
        
Again, Transcanada Seeks Keystone Permit
        
State Department Readies an R.S.V.P.
        
On Our Radar: Will the Keystone Delay Benefit Enbridge?
        
Thousands Protest Keystone XL Pipeline Project

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); OIL SANDS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); TOURISM (76%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); POLITICS (74%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (72%); ELECTIONS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); WRITERS (66%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (61%) Cornell; economy; Global Labor Institute; Jobs; Keystone XL pipeline; Oil Sands; pipeline safety; Obama, Barack; Infrastructure (Public Works); Labor and Jobs; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Pipelines; United States Economy; Business; Conventional Energy; Emissions Reduction; Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (93%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



536 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: An Inconvenient Statement, Retracted

BYLINE: JOHN M. BRODER


HIGHLIGHT: Steven Chu, the energy secretary, backs off from a suggestion he made as an academic that gasoline prices should be higher to discourage consumption. 

 BODY:
 Energy Secretary Steven Chu on Tuesday walked away from his oft-quoted pre-Cabinet statement that the United States should deliberately raise gasoline prices to discourage consumption.
 In a 2008 interview with The Wall Street Journal before he was appointed President Obama's energy secretary, Dr. Chu, then the director of the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, said, "Somehow we have to figure out how to boost the price of gasoline to the levels of Europe."
 Dr. Chu, a winner of the Nobel Prize in physics, has spent much of his career seeking alternative forms of energy to try to mitigate the global warming impacts of the burning of fossil fuels.
 His views on gasoline prices, while endorsed by many scientists and environmentalists, are politically off-message today, when gasoline prices are spiking and Mr. Obama is seeking to avoid political blame for them. The president has repeatedly said that he has no "silver bullet" to bring gas prices down but adds that he is doing everything he can to boost domestic oil supplies, including opening large areas of public lands and waters to drilling.

 Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker and candidate for the Republican presidential nomination, has called on Mr. Obama to dismiss Dr. Chu because of his stated view on gasoline prices.
 So in a hearing before the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee on Tuesday, Dr. Chu walked away from his earlier comment. "I no longer share that view," he said. "Of course we don't want the price of gasoline to go up. We want it to go down."
 He said he has worked since joining the administration to reduce fuel prices and to encourage alternative energy sources. Although he often rides a bicycle to work, Dr. Chu said, "we do acknowledge and feel the pain."
 Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said that the president had not instructed his energy secretary to disavow his comments.
 "And I think this is an excellent opportunity to make the point that folks who cover this issue, who try to suggest that the statement of someone who wasn't even in government at the time is somehow a more significant indicator of the president's policy than the president's policy, are engaging in politics on this issue," he said.
 "I know that it's part of the fun for folks to find these quotes and suggest that they have some deeper meaning, and maybe that would be the case on day one of a presidency," Mr. Carney continued. 
"But we're in the fourth year of this presidency," he said. "And this president has a very clear record of aggressively pursuing domestic oil and gas production in a safe and responsible way on public lands as well as private -- ensuring that it continues on private lands and waters -- and in pursuing aggressively alternative energy industries so that we can compete globally in the future in those industries."

        
What Makes Gasoline Prices Go Up?
        
What Next for Gas Prices?
        
Reining In the 'Soft Costs' of Solar
        
Solyndra Has a Cousin in the Poorhouse
        
Chu to Testify on Solyndra's Collapse

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); GASOLINE PRICES (93%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); POLITICS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (79%); NATURAL RESOURCES (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); PHYSICS (76%); NOBEL PRIZES (75%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (55%) gasoline prices; steven chu; Business; Conventional Energy; Energy Economics; Politics and Policy

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

PERSON: STEVEN CHU (91%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



537 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: His District Likely to Be Cut, Congressman Eyes Gillibrand's Senate Seat

BYLINE: RAYMOND HERNANDEZ


HIGHLIGHT: Representative Bob Turner, a popular figure in Republican circles whose district faces likely elimination, joins several others wanting the party's nomination to take on the incumbent, Kirsten E. Gillibrand. 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - RepresentativeBob Turner, a Republican who unexpectedly won a House seat in a closely watched special election last year, has decided to run for theUnited States Senate in New York, seeking to oust Kirsten E. Gillibrand, a Democrat.
Mr. Turner made his decision after it became clear that his district, which includes portions of Queens and Brooklyn, was one of two that would most likely be eliminated this year in New York State as part of the redistricting process. The state must cut its Congressional delegation to 27, from 29, to reflect slow population growth identified in the 2010 census. 
In recent days, Mr. Turner had received phone calls from an array of Republican Party officials, donors and activists who had urged him to run for the party's nomination for the Senate. He decided early Tuesday to challenge Ms. Gillibrand, after a federal magistrate judge overseeing the Congressional redistricting released a map shortly before midnight on Monday eliminating his district, according to two Republicans close to him.
Mr. Turner became a favorite in Republican circles after scoring an upset victory in September in a heavily Democratic Congressional district formerly represented by Anthony D. Weiner, a Democrat who resigned over a scandal involving his lewd online behavior. 
In a statement explaining his decision, Mr. Turner, a former television executive, said he was committed to finishing the job that he started in Congress. 
"I ran for the House six months ago as a private citizen fed up with what is happening in Washington," he said. "I could not sit and watch career politicians sink my nation deeper into economic crisis. 
"Brooklyn and Queens voters, of all political parties, graciously responded by sending me to Congress. It now appears that their district has been eliminated. There is serious work to be done to get this economy back on track, and I will not walk away from that work now." 
Mr. Turner's most immediate challenge will be raising enough money to run statewide. By some estimates, he will need a minimum of $10 million to compete against Ms. Gillibrand, a formidable fund-raiser.
Ms. Gillibrand's campaign quickly responded to the news of his candidacy. Her spokesman, Glen Caplin, noted that Mr. Turner once produced a cable show for Rush Limbaugh, the radio host recently embroiled in a controversy over slurs aimed at a female college student. 
Mr. Caplin also said that Mr. Turner had voted with House Republicans "to help protect tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires, raise Medicare premiums for seniors and block efforts to put middle-class families back to work." 
Mr. Turner enters a field of relatively unknown candidates vying for the Republican nomination to challenge Ms. Gillibrand, who is in her first term. The other Republicans are Joe Carvin, the Republican supervisor of the town of Rye, in Westchester County; Wendy Long, a Manhattan lawyer who was legal counsel to the Judicial Confirmation Network, a conservative organization; and George Maragos, the Nassau County comptroller.
But until Mr. Turner entered the race, no major Republican candidate had emerged for party leaders to rally behind. For months Republican leaders had been trying to identify a stronger opponent to take on Ms. Gillibrand, arguing that she could be vulnerable.
Several top Republicans say they believe that Mr. Turner is a potentially strong candidate in New York, a heavily Democratic state where Republicans have not won a statewide race since George E. Pataki was elected to a third term as governor in 2002. 
In particular, the Republicans noted that Mr. Turner managed to win election to Congress despite the fact that Democrats had spent hundreds of thousands of dollars against him and mobilized legions of supporters. He also successfully courted some Democratic voters who were dismayed with the state of the economy under President Obama or who objected to the president's handling of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Ms. Gillibrand, a former House member from upstate New York, has been taking nothing for granted. She has been working aggressively to establish a statewide identity since 2009, when Gov. David A. Paterson appointed her to the Senate seat vacated by Hillary Rodham Clinton, who left to become secretary of state. In 2010, Ms. Gillibrand won election to the Senate, allowing her to complete the unexpired portion of Ms. Clinton's term. 
As Ms. Gillibrand prepares to run for a full six-year term this year, she appears to be in a relatively strong position. The senator had $8.1 million in her campaign treasury as of the end of 2011, according to the most recent financial disclosure statements. And in a survey released this month by the Siena Research Institute, 54 percent of registered state voters said they had a favorable opinion of Ms. Gillibrand, and 58 percent said they were prepared to re-elect her. 

        
Congressional Redistricting Plans Go to a Judge
        
Another Republican Wants Gillibrand's Senate Seat
        
Gillibrand Favored by Most New York Voters, Poll Finds
        
Senate Hopeful Says He Takes 'Full Responsibility' for Blog Posts
        
Koch Endorses Obama in 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); REDISTRICTING (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); MAGISTRATES (77%); CENSUS (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); FUNDRAISING (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); JUDGES (73%); MEDICARE (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); LAWYERS (69%); SCANDALS (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (65%); FAMILY (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (50%) Bob Turner; Kirsten E. Gillibrand; Gillibrand, Kirsten E; Turner, Robert L (1941- ); Elections, Senate; Redistricting and Reapportionment; House of Representatives; Republican Party; Senate; New York State

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Republican Party; Senate

PERSON: BOB TURNER (94%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (93%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%) Gillibrand, Kirsten E; Turner, Robert L (1941- )

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



538 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: Planet Hollywood in Times Square to Cohabit With an Italian Restaurant

BYLINE: PATRICK MCGEEHAN


HIGHLIGHT: The owners of Planet Hollywood are preparing to close the Times Square location in June to split the three-level space between a smaller Planet Hollywood and a Buca di Beppo. 

 BODY:
When the first Planet Hollywood opened near Carnegie Hall more than 20 years ago, it sparked a wave of casual restaurants cluttered with memorabilia from movies and other forms of entertainment.
Now its owners are preparing to close New York City's only Planet Hollywood to make room for something Manhattan has in abundance: an Italian restaurant. The current location, at 45th Street and Broadway in the heart of Times Square, is scheduled to close in June for a renovation that will result in a splitting of the three-level space between a smaller Planet Hollywood and the first outpost in the city of the Buca di Beppo chain, said Ayana Brown, a spokeswoman for Planet Hollywood.
The company filed a notice with the state Department of Labor that it would close the restaurant on June 4 and lay off all 277 of its employees over the next two weeks. The notice indicated that the restaurant was shutting for economic reasons, but Ms. Brown said she had been told that the company planned to renovate and reopen "by the end of the year." She said the workers would have to reapply for jobs then. 
"Planet is definitely staying in the city," she said.
The planned changes would continue a trend of large units of national chains crowding entertainment-themed restaurants out of Times Square. The ESPN Zone at 42nd Street and Broadway closed in June 2010. Buca di Beppo's nearby competition will include an Olive Garden, an Applebee's, a Red Lobster and a Bubba Gump Shrimp Co.
As for the Hollywood props and costumes - like the Seor Pizza uniform that Patrick Dempsey wore in "Loverboy" and the bow and arrows Sylvester Stallone wielded in "Rambo IV" - Ms. Brown said she was not sure how much room there would be for them after the redesign. "I suppose there might be less of it, or it might be displayed in a different way," she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (90%); THEME RESTAURANTS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CASUAL DINING RESTAURANTS (89%); LAYOFFS (74%); BUILDING RENOVATION (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%) Planet Hollywood; Restaurants; Times Square and 42nd Street (NYC); Food and Drink

COMPANY: PLANET HOLLYWOOD INTERNATIONAL INC (90%); CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%); ESPN INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Planet Hollywood

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: PATRICK DEMPSEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Times Square and 42nd Street (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



539 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Events in Afghanistan Could Shape 2012 Race

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The rampage by an Army sergeant in Afghanistan is a stark reminder that national security events can transform the political conversation at home in ways that are hard to predict. 

 BODY:
So much about the 2012 presidential election is predictable: it will be about gas prices and health care; the deficit, spending and jobs; cultural issues and gender politics; immigration and federal taxes.
But the weekend news that an Army sergeant in Afghanistan had gone on a rampage, killing women and children in an Afghan village, is a stark reminder that dramatic national security moments have the potential to transform the political conversation at home in ways that are difficult to predict and hard to measure.
Within hours of the massacre, initial reports on Sunday reached the campaign trail, prompting remarks from Newt Gingrich and Rick Santorum about the dangers of America's ongoing involvement in the decade-long war in that country. A more cautious statement from Mitt Romney, expressing outrage at the incident, came a day later.
On Monday, the White House released a photo of a grim-faced President Obama sitting in his car and talking by phone to Hamid Karzai, the president of Afghanistan. That image was shown throughout the day on cable TV networks as the impact of the incident began to reverberate through Afghanistan.
Administration officials are clearly bracing for angry repercussions in that country, where the news adds to tensions that remain high from the accidental burning of Korans several weeks ago.
But how much impact will the news have on the political battle for the White House?
With eight months before the November election, it seems unlikely that the brutal incident itself will emerge as a significant moment in the campaign. At the White House daily briefing on Monday, Jay Carney, the press secretary, fielded questions about rising gas prices before getting to an extended discussion about the deaths in Afghanistan.
But had the incident happened much closer to Election Day, history suggests it might have had more of an impact.
* In 2004, Osama bin Laden released a provocative recording just days before the election pitting President George W. Bush and Senator John Kerry, the Democratic nominee. Bin Laden bragged about the Sept. 11 attacks and condemned Mr. Bush and America.
Mr. Bush's stern response - delivered on a tarmac with Air Force One in the background - helped remind voters of the dangers of terrorism and of the weighty office that he occupied. Aides to the president said later that tracking polls ticked higher after the video was released, and that it may have helped Mr. Bush win.
* Twelve years earlier, within a week before the 1992 election, the special prosecutor in the Iran-contra case indicted Caspar W. Weinberger, the former defense secretary, charging him with lying to Congress about the arms-for-hostages deal during the Reagan administration. Aides to President George H.W. Bush believed that the story helped his Democratic opponent, Bill Clinton, cement his critiques about the incumbent president.
* By contrast, striking events that took place months before Election Day have fizzled as campaign issues. In 2008, Senator John McCain tried to use the Russian invasion of parts of Georgia as a campaign issue. But the August events got lost six weeks later amid the global economic collapse.
Still, the massacre in Afghanistan could become important in November if it marks the escalation of a longer spiral in that country that makes the situation there worse by the time voters head to the polls.
That's what happened in 1980, when the Iran hostage crisis developed from a single incident almost exactly a year before the election - the takeover of the American embassy in Tehran - into a year-long embarrassment for President Jimmy Carter's administration.
Mr. Carter's decision to order a rescue attempt in April 1980 failed, causing more political damage. But it was the continuing presence of the hostages in the days leading up to the election that helped Ronald Reagan's efforts to oust Mr. Carter from the White House.
For Mr. Obama, who came into office arguing that Afghanistan was the "right war" and vowing to bring the conflict in Iraq to an end, a deteriorating conflict in Afghanistan could be especially dangerous to his hopes for reelection.
A Washington Post/ABC News poll showed that more than 50 percent of Americans believe troops should be withdrawn more quickly. And 60 percent said the war that Mr. Obama supported and expanded during his presidency was not worth the human toll or the financial cost.
Mr. Romney, in particular, has criticized Mr. Obama's policies in Afghanistan, saying that the administration is withdrawing troops too quickly from the country in advance of an agreement to transition to an Afghan-led effort in 2014.
At a debate in January in Tampa, Mr. Romney said Mr. Obama had erred by "number one, announcing a withdrawal date for our troops, number two drawing down our surge troops faster than the time the commanders on the ground was necessary." He added that "he has failed in -- in executing a policy in Afghanistan that would optimize our prospects of success."
But the Afghanistan debate is also exposing divisions within the Republican Party that could hurt their chances of turning it into an election year issue.
Perhaps in response to the public discontent, some Republicans are now expressing doubts about the long-term prospects in Afghanistan that sound remarkably similar to some of those voiced by Democrats.
Ron Paul has long been the most vocal Republican candidate arguing for a complete withdrawal from the country. (Jon M. Huntsman Jr. also expressed an urgency to have America end its involvement there.) But in the last several days, Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Santorum have sounded the alarm.
Mr. Gingrich predicted on Fox News Sunday that the situation in Afghanistan is "going to get substantially worse, not better. And I think that we are risking young men and women in a mission that may frankly not be doable."
Mr. Santorum expressed similar doubts on Sunday, saying that the killing of the Afghan civilians should prompt a reassessment of the mission in the country.
"Given all of these additional problems, we have to either make the decision to make a full commitment, which this president has not done, or we have to decide to get out and probably get out sooner given the president's decision to get out in 2014," Mr. Santorum said on NBC's "Today Show" program.
On Monday, Mr. Santorum returned to his criticism of Mr. Obama for setting a date for withdrawal of American troops, saying "the president putting a timeline in place has made a very winnable operation very, very difficult. It continues to unravel because the president has given something to the enemy that we should have been able to deny them, which is hope."
It's unclear how much the Afghanistan situation will be front-and-center by November, when most voters will likely be judging the candidates by their positions on the economy. But one thing is clear: incidents like the one over the weekend are likely to divert the conversation for a time, and maybe longer.

        
Obama Campaign Video Highlights First Term
        
To Autoworkers, Obama Turns Up Oratory
        
Who Might Run as a Third-Party Candidate in 2012?
        
At Prayer Breakfast, Obama Ties Economic Message to Christian Values
        
Hey Herman Cain, Hamid Karzai Knows Your Name

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%); IMMIGRATION (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); AL-QAEDA (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); INDICTMENTS (63%) 2012; Afghanistan; national security; Presidential Election of 2012; Gingrich, Newt; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Afghanistan War (2001- ); Elections; United States Defense and Military Forces; The 44th President; The Caucus

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (88%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); JOHN KERRY (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); RICK SANTORUM (78%); GEORGE H W BUSH (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); HAMAD KARZAI (57%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) Gingrich, Newt; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



540 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: A.F.L.-C.I.O. Formally Backs Obama

BYLINE: STEVEN GREENHOUSE


HIGHLIGHT: As the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s winter meeting opened here, its political director mapped out organized labor's plans for the campaign and how unions will respond to what he says will be $500 million in "super PAC" ads backing Republicans. 

 BODY:
4:42 p.m. | Updated ORLANDO -- Although it came as no surprise, the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the nation's main union federation, gave President Obama its powerful endorsement on Tuesday, promising to deploy hundreds of thousands of union volunteers on his behalf.
 In announcing the endorsement, Richard Trumka, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president, praised Mr. Obama for pushing through job creation programs, a comprehensive health insurance program and Wall Street reform as well as fighting to revive manufacturing.
 Mr. Trumka said that the 57 unions belonging to the labor federation had voted overwhelmingly to back Mr. Obama at the group's executive council meeting here.
"President Obama honors the values of hard work, of mutual respect, and of solving problems together-not every person for himself or herself," Mr. Trumka said in a statement. "Each of the Republican presidential candidates, on the other hand, has pledged to uphold the special privileges of Wall Street and the 1 percent."
Labor leaders have had their differences with Mr. Obama, mainly over some of his bolder proposals to cut the budget deficit, but Mr. Trumka said it was time to rally behind the president, especially because he has strongly embraced labor's priorities in recent months.
"I think he's made a complete pivot -- You remember that was a period of time he was mired in that debate about deficit reduction, he wasn't talking about jobs," Mr. Trumka said. "Since Labor Day he's been talking about jobs, jobs jobs. He's also been talking about inequality, that this economy is really unfair to 99 percent of the people."
 Worried about the tens of millions of dollars that Republican "super PAC's" are expected to spend this year, A.F.L.-C.I.O. leaders said they hoped to counter that by putting together their largest political mobilization ever - with as many as 400,000 volunteers making phone calls and knocking on doors. And for the first time, unions, as a result of a 2010 Supreme Court decision, will be able to - and plan to - knock on the doors of millions of voters who do not belong to unions with the aim of persuading them to vote for Mr. Obama as well as labor-friendly candidates in state and local races.
A.F.L.-C.I.O. officials declined to say how much money they planned to spend in this year's campaign, although the federation is expected to spend somewhat more than the $53 million it said it spent in 2008 -- some of which went to state and local races. Union leaders said that this year, in addition to trying to elect Mr. Obama, they would focus more than ever on state and local races to try to win Democrat legislative majorities with the hope of blocking future anti-union legislative efforts, like those in Wisconsin and Indiana.
 Many union officials have voiced antagonism toward Mitt Romney, who holds the lead in delegates in the Republican nominating fight, especially after he repeatedly attacked "union bosses" during the Michigan primary. Many labor leaders have also voiced dismay with Mr. Romney for opposing the bailout of General Motors and Chrysler. He said it was a huge favor to the United Auto Workers, but labor leaders hailed the rescue, saying it saved more than 1 million jobs in the Midwest.
The endorsement brought criticism from the Romney campaign.
"Big labor unions spent hundreds of millions of dollars to elect President Obama, and he has been repaying them ever since," said Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for Mr. Romney. "Union bosses have repeatedly attacked Mitt Romney in this campaign because they know he will end the sweetheart deals they have enjoyed under President Obama."
Mr. Trumka lashed into Mr. Romney at his news conference. "Mitt Romney doesn't have a clue what workers go through," he said. "Everything he does identifies with the 1 percent. Everything he does helps the 1 percent."

        
Indiana House Democrats Returning to State Capitol
        
The Early Word: Showdowns and Shutdowns
        
Politics of Wisconsin Labor Fight Spread to Washington
        
Teachers Make Mark on Midterms
        
Trumka Likes Obama's Jobs Message

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (77%); POLITICS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); BUDGETS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (66%); US LABOR DAY (64%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (56%) labor unions; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Rove, Karl; Snowe, Olympia; Trumka, Richard L; Warren, Elizabeth; Organized Labor; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations; United Automobile Workers; Indiana; Elections

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (94%) American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations; United Automobile Workers

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); KARL ROVE (72%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (69%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Rove, Karl; Snowe, Olympia; Trumka, Richard L; Warren, Elizabeth

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) Indiana

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



541 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: In Missouri, Romney Attacks Obama for Rising Gas Prices

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: After President Obama says heightened rhetoric about Iran contributes to rising gas prices, Mitt Romney accuses him of playing politics with a "serious foreign policy issue." 

 BODY:
KIRKWOOD, Mo. - Standing in front of a jungle gym, Mitt Romney spoke to voters crowded onto picnic benches here Tuesday morning and attacked President Obama over rising gas prices.
Mr. Romney first offered up some suggestions for why gas prices are skyrocketing, including Mr. Obama's objection to drilling for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. "Maybe it's related to the fact that you said we couldn't get a pipeline in from Canada known as Keystone," he continued. "Those things affect gasoline prices, long term."
But, turning tocomments the president made Monday about gas prices rising because of concerns over military action in Iran, Mr. Romney accused Mr. Obama of taking a "serious foreign policy issue" and using it to play politics.
"He said it's because Republican presidential candidates are talking in a very muscular way about Iran and their nuclear program," Mr. Romney said. "Now that's a pretty tough one to follow, and frankly, it's disappointing to have the president of the United States take a serious foreign policy issue -- which is Iran, the state sponsor of terror in the world, becoming nuclear -- and trying to turn that into, saying we're somehow responsible for high gasoline prices in this country. It's a real stretch, even for a guy who's gotten pretty good at making excuses."
Mr. Romney added: "I wish as a president, he would finally take responsibility for 24 million people out of work or underemployed in this country. Take responsibility for not having drilled for more oil when he could have. Take responsibility for home values having gone down, down, down."
As gas prices continue to rise, along with increased talk of war with Iran and stumbles in Afghanistan, Mr. Obama's approval rating has fallen. A new New York Times/CBS News poll showsthat only 41 percent of respondents approve of the job the president is doing, with 47 percent saying they disapprove, a substantial drop in recent weeks.
Mr. Romney is campaigning in Missouri because the state holds precinct caucuses on Saturday to begin choosing its 52 delegates to the Republican National Convention. Rick Santorum won the state's nonbinding primary on Feb. 7, along with Colorado's and Minnesota's.
Though Mr. Romney devoted most of his nearly 20-minute speech to attacking the president, he began with a distinctly local question - is "Missouri" pronounced "mih-ZUR-ee" or "mih-ZUR-uh?"
Though former Senator Jim Talent, who introduced Mr. Romney, had gone with "mih-ZUR-uh," the crowd cheered loudly when Mr. Romney said, "mih-ZUR-ee."
"O.K., I'm in mih-ZUR-ee right now," he said, ceding to crowd consensus. "I think we're going to mih-ZUR-uh a little later today. Yeah, we're taking a trip over to mih-ZUR-uh."

        
Romney Memo Tries to Lower Expectations for Contests
        
Santorum Says Romney's Delegate Lead Will Fade as the Contest Continues
        
'Hope Is Not a Foreign Policy,' Romney Says
        
For Romney and Voters, Sometimes a Missed Connection
        
Moving On, Santorum Avoids Mention of Michigan Delegate Issue

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (73%); HOME PRICES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (64%); WILDLIFE (56%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (56%) gas; Missouri; romney; Romney, Mitt; Politics and Government; Presidential Election of 2012; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); RICK SANTORUM (58%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (97%); ALASKA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ARCTIC (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Missouri

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



542 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: In Alabama and Mississippi, Romney Competes in Unfavorable Terrain

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The Alabama and Mississippi primaries on Tuesday are not a natural fit for Mr. Romney's candidacy. 

 BODY:
Demographically, the primaries in Alabama and Mississippi on Tuesday should not be favorable to Mitt Romney.
The two Southern states are filled with evangelical voters who have expressed deep reservations about Mr. Romney in just about every contest so far. In Iowa, he won 14 percent of those voters, less than half of Rick Santorum's support, according to surveys of voters arriving at the caucuses.
And culturally, Mr. Romney is about as distant from the South as can be - despite his clumsy attempt recently to declare a love of grits or speak with an exaggerated "y'all" at appearances in the states.
But polls suggest a tight race in both places and Mr. Romney's advisers have been raising expectations that he could win one or both. "I feel good about them both," Mr. Romney said Tuesday afternoon, noting that polls show him to be competitive in the two places. 
That could be the result of what national surveys say is a growing strength for Mr. Romney: a belief that he is destined to be the nominee.
Almost three-quarters of the Republicans primary voters surveyed in the recent New York Times/CBS News poll said they thought Mr. Romney will win their party's nomination. That's almost 20 percentage points higher than it was at the beginning of January.
Mr. Romney's advisers have spent much of the past two weeks trying to drive home the message of the inevitability of his nomination by arguing that his rivals have little mathematical hope of winning. They say Mr. Romney already has nearly a third of the delegates he needs to secure the nomination, and they hope voters want to be with a winner.
Speaking to reporters as he campaigned in Missouri, Mr. Romney stayed on message, saying that no matter what happened in Tuesday's contests, which include caucuses in Hawaii, he would be closer to having collected 1,144 delegates. 
"This is all about getting delegates, and hope to get more delegates tonight," Mr. Romney said. "Obviously, if the polls are anywhere near correct, we'll end up with, I don't know, a third of the delegates. And if that's the case, why that inches us closer to that magic number."
But is the idea of inevitability enough to overcome Mr. Romney's weaknesses in the Deep South?
Mr. Romney's supporters apparently believe it might. Even as the voting began on Tuesday, they declined to play down expectations for Mr. Romney in Alabama or Mississippi. 
"He's showed up; he's closed strong on the economy and he's a good shot to win this," Phil Musser, a Republican strategist who now backs Mr. Romney, said on MSNBC's "Daily Rundown" program. "I'd be surprised if he wins both, but he has a shot at winning one."
Aides to Mr. Romney were similarly positive ahead of the Tennessee primary on March 6, suggesting that it was a state where Mr. Romney might do well. It didn't turn out that way. Mr. Santorum won the state by a nearly 10-point margin over Mr. Romney.
Mr. Romney won only three counties in Tennessee, losing statewide among very conservative voters, Tea Party supporters, evangelical Christians and those who believe abortion should be illegal. 
By contrast, he won Tennessee voters who said that defeating President Obama was the quality in a candidate that mattered most to them, according to exit polls. Mr. Romney got 40 percent of those voters, while Mr. Santorum got only 25 percent.
The question for Mr. Romney on Tuesday will be whether voters in Mississippi and Alabama are more like their counterparts in Tennessee - or if something has changed.
In his second try at the White House, Mr. Romney has demonstrated a willingness to compete in every part of the country, even in places where he was not expected to do well, like Iowa and South Carolina.
That willingness has served him well in the hunt for delegates. Even when he loses in a state like Tennessee, he still prevents his rivals from catching up to him in the chase for delegates.
And by exceeding expectations in places where he's not expected to perform well, Mr. Romney adds to the sense that he is destined to become the nominee. 
The danger for Mr. Romney is that doing poorly demonstrates again his weaknesses, especially with the conservative voters who have long been suspicious of his commitment to their causes. So far, Mr. Romney has struggled in every Southern state except Florida.
The results Tuesday night could determine whether Mr. Romney finally breaks that trend - or adds to it.

        
Jobs Reports Offer Opportunities and Dangers for Obama and Rivals
        
The Parallels Between Mitt Romney and George H.W. Bush
        
2012 Presidential Race Is 'the Worst I've Ever Seen,' Barbara Bush Says
        
Romney Makes Economic Pitch to Ohio Voters
        
Pressed for Anecdote, Romney Recounts Tale of Missing Girl

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RELIGION (78%) Alabama and Mississippi; mitt romney; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; Alabama; Mississippi; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); RICK SANTORUM (58%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Alabama; Mississippi

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



543 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 6668 words

HEADLINE: Updates From Alabama and Mississippi Primaries

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Times is providing live coverage of Tuesday's primaries and caucuses in Alabama, Mississippi, Hawaii and American Samoa. 

 BODY:
The Times is covering Tuesday's primaries and caucuses and providing live updates and analysis. Follow along on the live dashboard and on Twitter (@thecaucus), get real-time results and dig deeper into the numbers with FiveThirtyEight.
11:41 P.M. | That's a Wrap
Rick Santorum captured twin victories in the Alabama and Mississippi primaries on Tuesday and the candidates are now on their way home. We are, too. Check out NYTimes.com and The Caucus for continuing coverage, including the Hawaii caucuses. Thanks for following along.
And don't forget to download the new Election 2012 app, now available on Android, which smartly combines our coverage with the best from political news sites, Twitter and blogs from around the Web.
- 
10:54 P.M. | Santorum Wins Both Southern Primaries
Rick Santorum captured both Republican primaries in Mississippi and Alabama on Tuesday, dealing a forceful rebuke to Mitt Romney's hopes of demonstrating political strength in the South as he grinds toward his party's nomination.
As Mr. Santorum claimed victory at a rally in Louisiana, declaring "We did it again!" he chided Mr. Romney for acting like he had already secured the nomination before the voting was over.
"For someone who thinks this race is inevitable, he's spending a whole lot of money against me," Mr. Santorum said. "The time is now for conservatives to pull together. The time is now to make sure we have the best chance to win this election."
The failure by Mr. Romney to emerge as a victor in the three-way battle with Mr. Santorum and Newt Gingrich was underscored by his weakness with the Republican Party's traditional constituencies. Mr. Romney lost among very conservative voters and evangelical Christians, according to exit polls.
Mr. Gingrich appeared poised to come in second in both states Tuesday night, ahead of Mr. Romney but having failed to deliver any first-place victories in Southern states outside of his home state of Georgia.
The immediate question for Mr. Gingrich will be whether pressure mounts for him to exit the race to allow conservatives to coalesce behind someone other than Mr. Romney.
Advisers to Mr. Romney had predicted that he might win in Alabama or Mississippi, a feat that would have given a psychological push to a campaign that has struggled for a victory in the conservative South. 
The failure to do so will force Mr. Romney's campaign to continue arguing that his lead in delegates make it all but impossible for his rivals to stop him from getting the nomination. 
Mr. Santorum refused to accept that argument in his remarks to supporters Tuesday night. He vowed to continue winning across the country ahead of the Republican National Convention this summer in Tampa.
"We are campaigning everywhere there are delegates because we are going to win this nomination before that convention," Mr. Santorum said. "If we nominate a conservative we will defeat Barack Obama."
Several hundred boisterous supporters of Mr. Santorum packed into the ballroom in Lafayette, La.
Around 9:15 p.m. Central time, one supporter went to the front of the crowd and called on everyone to "take a knee" in prayer. Many in the crowd did - as others bowed their heads - and the supporter led them in a prayer of support for Mr. Santorum, who he said was working on behalf of God's wishes.
"We believe he is standing for your works and for what you believe," the man said.
For many Santorum supporters in the crowd, his strong showing was a validation of their beliefs.
"That's the voice of the people, ordinary citizens," said Sandy Hindelang, a member of the state Republican central committee.
"He's the one of all these candidates who is speaking out about our freedoms and about the freedoms we are losing," she said.
- 
10:48 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Montgomery, Ala.
Name: Larry Strichik
Age: 50
Party: Republican
Supporting: Rick Santorum
Location: Montgomery, Ala.
Occupation: Owner of Mrs. T's Catering
Concerned About: The economy
- 
10:29 P.M. | For Gingrich, an Alabama Celebration Deferred
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. - Mr. Gingrich's election night party is in a hotel ballroom next door, as it happens, to a party for the Alabama Republican Party. There are some differences between the two rooms.The party's party has a repast of breaded portobello mushrooms and assorted cheeses. There are no snacks at the campaign's party. There are white tablecloths at the Republican Party event; it is standing room only at Newt 2012, where a sparse crowd of about 100 is beginning to fill in. 
Bill Armistead, the chairman of Alabama Republican Party, expressed surprise that Mr. Gingrich did not do better in the state, which has been called for Mr. Santorum, given how much time he spent campaigning here. 
If Mr. Gingrich were to lose both Alabama and Mississippi, where Mr. Santorum holds a narrower edge at the moment, Mr. Armistead said he should withdraw.
"If you can't win your neighbors over, I don't know how you win others over," he said. "Alabama and Mississippi ought to be very friendly toward him."
He discounted the Gingrich campaign's argument, made in a memo from top advisers circulated Tuesday, that Mr. Gingrich had a route to the nomination even, if he didn't win in the Deep South. 
"It's just going delay the eventual nominee of our party," he said. "We need to be spending our time and money running against Barack Obama and not fighting one another."
- 
10:17 P.M. | Exit Polls: Where Might Gingrich Voters Go? 
With Mr. Gingrich facing the possibility that he may not win either the Alabama or Mississippi primaries, it's worth looking at the exit polls for clues about how current Gingrich voters feel about Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum as alternatives. 
In Mississippi, voters were asked if they would be satisfied with each of the other candidates as the potential Republican nominee. More than half of Gingrich's supporters said they would be satisfied with Mr. Santorum. On the other hand, only one-third of Gingrich voters felt that way about Mr. Romney, perhaps another indication that staunchly conservative voters aren't as comfortable with the former Massachusetts governor.
Similarly, in terms of candidate ideology, more than twice as many Gingrich voters in Mississippi said that Mr. Santorum was about right on the issues than those who viewed Mr. Romney that way. And in Alabama, more than three times as many Gingrich voters said Mr. Santorum's positions were compatible with theirs in comparison to Mr. Romney's. 
- 
10:12 P.M. | Santorum Wins Alabama
Mr. Santorum won the Alabama primary on Tuesday but remained locked in a tight race with Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich in Mississippi, according to preliminary exit polls.
Mr. Santorum's victory in Alabama was driven by support among voters who said they were "very conservative" and from evangelical Christians, who made up nearly 8 in 10 voters, according to exit poll returns.
Mr. Romney also stumbled among voters in Alabama who expressed skepticism about his commitment to their conservative values; nearly half of those who turned out to vote said he was not conservative enough.
But Mr. Romney appeared to be doing better in Mississippi. He managed to stay competitive with Mr. Santorum and Mr. Gingrich there partly because of the importance many voters placed on beating Mr. Obama and the perception that Mr. Romney is the candidate best able to do that.
The top issue to most Mississippi voters, as in all other contests, was the economy. More than a third of these voters supported Mr. Romney, while about 3 in 10 backed Mr. Gingrich or Mr. Santorum. 
But exit polls in both states on Tuesday provided fresh evidence of Mr. Romney's weakness among some of the party's core constituencies. Mr. Santorum did better than Mr. Romney among voters who care a lot about abortion and among those who said that candidates should share their religious beliefs.
In Mississippi, about 2 in 10 voters said they were most looking for a candidate with strong moral values, while as many said they wanted a true conservative - both strong groups for Mr. Santorum.
In Alabama, Mr. Santorum and Mr. Gingrich essentially split the support of important conservative voting groups in the state.
For Mr. Gingrich, though, losing in both states would be a devastating blow. Following his losses in Tennessee and Oklahoma last week, Mr. Gingrich - a former member of Congress from Georgia - had all but promised that he would win in Mississippi and Alabama.
Having lost four Southern primaries in a row, Mr. Gingrich will almost certainly face new demands from his rivals and other Republicans to abandon his campaign if he loses in both primaries on Tuesday.
But Mr. Gingrich has recently indicated that he would continue campaigning regardless of the outcome in Tuesday night's primaries. And he has repeatedly said that he intends to campaign all the way until the Republican National Convention in Tampa this summer.
The Republican race now moves forward to Missouri on Saturday and Illinois next week as Mr. Santorum and Mr. Romney remain locked in a bitter fight for the right to lead their party's bid to take back the White House from President Obama.
- 
10:00 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Hoover, Ala.
Name: Pamela Blackmore
Age: 41
Party: Republican
Supporting: Newt Gingrich
Location: Hoover, Ala.
Occupation: Law student
Concerned About: Prayer in schools
- 
9:53 P.M. | Exit Polls: Mississippi Breakdown
With a very conservative electorate and potentially the highest number of evangelical Christians in any Republican contest this year, Mississippi would seem to be a better demographic fit for Mr. Santorum or Mr. Gingrich than for Mr. Romney.
Indeed, about half of voters say Mr. Romney's positions on the issues are not conservative enough, while about a third say his positions are about right. Many more say Mr. Gingrich's or Mr. Santorum's positions are about right.
Yet Mr. Romney managed to stay competitive with Mr. Santorum and Mr. Gingrich there partly because of the importance many voters placed on beating Mr. Obama and the perception that Mr. Romney is the candidate best able to do that.
In addition, exit poll results show that neither Mr. Gingrich nor Mr. Santorum was the clear favorite among very conservative voters. About a third of them supported Mr. Santorum, while as many backed Mr. Gingrich. A quarter preferred Mr. Romney. Mr. Romney was backed by more voters who described themselves as only somewhat conservative or moderate.
Evangelical Christians, who accounted for about 8 in 10 voters, also divided their loyalties, with each of the top three candidates winning roughly a third of their vote. But Mr. Santorum edged out the others those who said it mattered a great deal that a candidate share their religious beliefs (nearly half of all voters).
About 4 in 10 voters said their top quality was electability, and they were more apt to favor Mr. Romney. About 2 in 10 voters said they were most looking for a candidate with strong moral values, while as many said they wanted a true conservative - both strong groups for Mr. Santorum. Mr. Gingrich ran best among the 2 in 10 voters most looking for someone with the right experience.
While Mississippi voters picked Mr. Romney as the candidate with the best chance of winning in November, Mr. Gingrich had an edge on the question of who best understands the problems of average Americans. 
Mr. Gingrich ran stronger among married men than among married women; he trailed Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum among married women.
The top issue to most voters, as in all other contests, was the economy. More than a third of these voters supported Mr. Romney, while about 3 in 10 backed Mr. Gingrich or Mr. Santorum. 
Graphic: How Different Groups Voted
- 
9:52 P.M. | Caucus Click: Help From Prisoners
- 
9:42 P.M. | Exit Polls: Alabama Breakdown 
Voters in Alabama were closely divided on Tuesday over whom they favored for the Republican nomination. Perhaps most telling, more than half of Alabama voters said Mr. Romney's positions on the issues were not conservative enough, while about the same number said that Mr. Santorum's and Mr. Gingrich's positions were just about right. That meant that Mr. Santorum and Mr. Gingrich essentially split the support of crucial conservative voting groups in the state known as "the Heart of Dixie."
Early exit poll results showed Mr. Santorum leading by a few percentage points among those who consider themselves very conservative and among white evangelical Christian voters. In the Tennessee and Oklahoma primaries, Mr. Santorum won these groups by a wider margin, which was essential to his success in those contests.
Mr. Santorum had the support of more than 4 in 10 anti-abortion voters, while nearly 3 in 10 supported Mr. Gingrich, and about 2 in 10 supported Mr. Romney. And among those the three-quarters of voters who said that it mattered a great deal that a candidate share their religious beliefs, more were voting for Mr. Santorum than Mr. Gingrich.
Mr. Santorum also did well among younger voters and led among voters with incomes under $50,000.
Mr. Gingrich, whose campaign was given fresh life after his win in the neighboring state of Georgia last Tuesday, split Tea Party supporters and those who identified as somewhat conservative with Mr. Santorum. And nearly 4 in 10 voters said Mr. Gingrich would be the best candidate in an international crisis.
While men were divided among the three top candidates, nearly 4 in 10 women were supporting Mr. Santorum, compared to 3 in 10 for Mr. Romney and 2 in 10 for Mr. Gingrich. Married men went more strongly for Mr. Gingrich, while married women were divided between Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum.
Voters were divided over which candidate best understands the problems of average Americans, with about a third naming Mr. Santorum or Mr. Gingrich, and about 2 in 10 naming Mr. Romney.
Mr. Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, was able to overcome any prejudice against his Yankee roots among a few groups, doing well among high-income and moderate voters. Other groups that he has consistently won in both conservative and more moderate states continued to support him, including those opposed to the Tea Party, nonevangelicals and abortion rights advocates. 
More than a third of voters said they had made up their minds in the past few days, and Mr. Santorum was leading them slightly over Mr. Romney, who also had those who decided this year.
And perhaps the most important opinion that continues to sustain Mr. Romney through these conservative states is electability. Alabama voters chose Mr. Romney as the candidate most likely to defeat Mr. Obama in November, by nearly two to one over Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Santorum.
Graphic: How Different Groups Voted
- 
9:35 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Montgomery, Ala.
Name: Hazel Norman
Age: 91
Party: Republican
Supporting: Mitt Romney
Location: Montgomery, Ala.
Occupation: Retired
Concerned About: Defeating President Obama
- 
9:22 P.M. | Delegate System Gives Small States Outsize Clout 
One person, one vote is not a concept that either party pays much heed to when it comes to nominating candidates for president - as was vividly underscored Tuesday by the seemingly outsize number of delegates that were at stake in the Alabama and Mississippi Republican primaries.
Alabama has a little more than half as many residents as New Jersey, but under Republican Party rules both states will send the same number of delegates - 50 - to the Republican National Convention this summer in Tampa, Fla. The party's rules give Mississippi even more delegates than Maryland gets - even though Maryland has nearly twice as many people.
It may seem counterintuitive, but the hefty trove of delegates given to two relatively small states like Alabama and Mississippi attests to a quirk of the nominating process of the two parties. Under a set of arcane rules that can seem as inscrutable to the uninitiated as the mechanics of Quidditch, both Democrats and Republicans have long used formulas that give a state's delegates based not just on population, but also on party loyalty in previous elections.
Those rules give the most heavily Republican states a greater voice in choosing Republican nominees, and the most heavily Democratic states more weight in picking Democratic nominees.
Political scientists said that such rules have had little if any impact on the increasing polarization of American politics in recent years, since candidates still focus more energy on the early voting states than the most delegate-heavy states, and typically lock up the nomination long before conventions are held. But they said the rules could play a role this year if the Republican nominating contest becomes a long grind in which the candidates end up fighting for each and every delegate all the way to Tampa.
Suddenly, smaller and much more conservative states would have as much of a voice at the convention as some of the larger swing states where general elections are usually won or lost. 
Read More
- 
9:24 P.M. | Exit Polls: Gingrich Battles Santorum for Conservatives
From the beginning of the campaign for the Republican nomination, it has been clear that for Mr. Gingrich to beat Mr. Romney, he would have to consolidate the conservative vote. For a short time following Mr. Gingrich's win in South Carolina, it seemed that he might accomplish this feat. Unfortunately for Mr. Gingrich, his failure to win any states in the month that followed - and Mr. Santorum's subsequent successes - seemed to draw conservative voters away from Mr. Gingrich and toward Mr. Santorum.
Last week, on Super Tuesday, Mr. Santorum won among self-described strong conservatives in Ohio, Tennessee, Oklahoma and Vermont, with Mr. Gingrich winning these voters only in his home state of Georgia. On Tuesday, Mr. Gingrich managed to split the strong conservative vote with Mr. Santorum in Mississippi, but lost this group to him outright in Alabama.
- 
9:06 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Birmingham, Ala.
Name: John Tompkins
Age: 47
Party: Democrat
Supporting: Barack Obama
Location: Birmingham, Ala.
Occupation: Firefighter
Concerned About: Entitlements
- 
8:53 P.M. | Spoiler Alert: Ron Paul Loses, According to Fox News
It's a race to the bottom. 
With exit polls showing very tight races in Alabama and Mississippi - too tight for news organizations to make an early call - we have our first verdict of the evening, courtesy of Fox News. 
Brace yourself. Ron Paul will come in last. 
"The only thing Fox News can project at the moment," the network said on its Web site, "is that Ron Paul will come in fourth place in both Mississippi and Alabama."
- 
8:49 P.M. | Mississippi Exit Polls: How Different Groups Voted
Mississippi Exit Polls: How Different Groups Voted
- 
8:44 P.M. | Obama Spends Primary Night in Ohio
As Republicans counted votes from the Alabama and Mississippi primaries Tuesday night, President Obama attended a different kind of contest in a state the Republican Party battled over just last week.
Mr. Obama hosted British Prime Minister David Cameron for a college basketball game in Dayton, Ohio, eager to introduce his guest to one of his passions. 
Mr. Cameron, wearing a dark golf shirt, seemed game, if a little puzzled by his first basketball game. "It's pretty fast and furious," he said at halftime to a commentator for TruTV, Clark Kellogg. Mr. Cameron allowed that he was having trouble following who did what wrong.
Mr. Obama had an easy answer for that. "Both teams are shooting terribly," he said of Mississippi Valley State, which was beating Western Kentucky, 33 to 29, in a first-round game of the N.C.A.A. men's basketball tournament. "It may be nerves."
The road trip to Dayton - which included flights on Marine One and Air Force One - gave Mr. Obama a chance to spend some relaxed time with Mr. Cameron before a day of ceremony and serious talks on Wednesday. The prime minister will receive a formal welcome at the White House, hold meetings with Mr. Obama, take part in a news conference and be honored at a state dinner on the South Lawn.
Why Dayton? Mr. Obama said it was nice to show a guest the American heartland, since visiting dignitaries tend to spend their time on the East and West Coasts. Whether he told Mr. Cameron about Ohio's status as a crucial swing state in the election was not clear. 
The president said he expected Mr. Cameron to reciprocate by teaching him about cricket.
- 
8:39 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Hueytown, Ala.
Name: James Pilgrim
Age: 69
Party: Republican
Supporting: Undecided
Location: Hueytown, Ala.
Occupation: Landlord
Concerned About: Immigration
- 
8:37 P.M. | A Meal With Mitt 
Mr. Romney often mocks Mr. Obama. In fact, there's almost nothing about the president that he likes.
But in one area, Mr. Romney is almost a carbon-copy of Mr. Obama - their approach to fund-raising.
In recent weeks, the two campaigns have sent out friendly sounding e-mails urging their supporters to donate for a chance to sit down with the candidate for a casual lunch or dinner.
"As we await tonight's results, I wanted to take a moment to let you know about a chance to meet up for lunch," Mr. Romney wrote in an e-mail Tuesday night. "This won't be just any lunch, though. I'll be bringing the winner out to California to grab a bite with me at my favorite burger place."
The e-mail was a perfect echo of the type that Mr. Obama routinely sends out as he searches for cash.
"It's not all that often that Michelle and I get to host a casual meal with friends," the president wrote in an e-mail that went out to his campaign list last December.
"That's one of the reasons we're both excited about the upcoming dinner with three supporters and your guests," he wrote. "It's the first one we've ever done like this together, and we'd love to have you and whoever you choose to join us."
In Mr. Romney's e-mail, he did not say the name of his favorite burger joint, apparently hoping that just sitting down with him would be enticement enough.
That's the same calculation that Mr. Obama makes. He has repeated the appeal several times since becoming a candidate for president in 2008.
Which one of the fund-raising efforts will be more successful? That probably depends on the candidate viewed as being more fun to share a meal with.
And the answer to that most likely depends on the people receiving the e-mail.
- 
8:27 P.M. | Exit Polls: Men Versus Women
In both Southern states on Tuesday, Mr. Gingrich's supporters were more likely to be men while Mr. Santorum's backers were more likely to be women.
In Mississippi, Mr. Romney's supporters were also more likely to be women, though in Alabama his supporters were more evenly split along gender lines.
About three-quarters of the voters were married. More than half of Mr. Gingrich's support came from married men, as opposed to only about one-third of votes in Mr. Romney's column or Mr. Santorum's column. Conversely, married women made up the largest proportion of supporters for Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum.
Unmarried voters contributed only about one-quarter of all votes received by each candidate. Among the unmarried, men and women generally comprised a roughly equal proportion of each candidate's votes.
But unmarried women in Alabama contributed more than twice as many votes as unmarried men to Mr. Santorum's column. In Mississippi, Mr. Romney drew almost three times as many of his votes from unmarried women as from unmarried men.
- 
8:21 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Birmingham, Ala.
Name: John Lake
Age: 63
Party: Republican
Supporting: Mitt Romney
Location: Birmingham, Ala.
Occupation: Hat salesman
Concerned About: The economy
- 
8:11 P.M. | What's Next?
With the contests in Mississippi and Alabama almost over, the candidates will soon shift their attention to Missouri and Illinois.
Mr. Romney's campaign has been looking at Illinois - which will hold a primary on March 20 - as an opportunity to make a statement in the battle against Mr. Santorum. But early polls have suggested the two men are locked in a tight race there.
And Missouri is an odd case: Mr. Santorum routed Mr. Romney two to one in the state's primary in early February and used the momentum from the victory to help fuel his challenge to the front-runner.
But that primary was a nonbinding affair that is now being followed up by Missouri's official caucus on Saturday, where 52 delegates are at stake - this time for real.
Mr. Romney's campaign advisers had argued in February that Mr. Santorum's victories in Missouri meant little. Now, Mr. Romney is campaigning in the state, hoping to capture most of the delegates there.
In fact, Mr. Romney spent part of Tuesday in Missouri even as voters in Mississippi and Alabama went to the polls.
For both candidates, Illinois could be the next big test of their ability to appeal in the important Rust Belt. Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum demonstrated strength in Michigan and Ohio.
- 
8:10 P.M. | Alabama Exit Polls: How Different Groups Voted
Alabama Exit Polls: How Different Groups Voted
- 
8:00 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Mountain Brook, Ala.
Name: Phyllis Davis
Age: 61
Party: Republican
Supporting: Rick Santorum
Location: Mountain Brook, Ala.
Occupation: Retired financial executive
Concerned About: The economy
- 
7:33 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Wetumpka, Ala.
Name: Harry Free
Age: 67
Party: Republican
Supporting: Undecided
Location: Wetumpka, Ala.
Occupation: Vacuum repairman
Concerned About: The economy
- 
7:23 P.M. | Female Voters and the Republican Primary
All of the talk about birth control and abortion laws seems to have had little effect on the ways women are voting for the two leading Republican candidates, Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum, at least according to exit polls in the primaries.
The best states to scrutinize for any clues are those that have voted more recently, because Mr. Santorum has gained quite a bit of momentum and is winning more states. Since his trifecta in early February - when he won contests in Colorado, Minnesota and Missouri - Mr. Santorum has gained thousands and thousands of supporters, allowing for a deeper analysis.
Especially in Michigan and Ohio, some distinct patterns among subsets of female voters began to surface that may provide a few clues to their preferences, but are not necessarily any evidence of a significant shift in female voting preference between Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum. And technically, some of these splits can't be classified as a "gender gap" per se, because the women's numbers aren't that different from the men's.
Read more
- 
6:50 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Huntsville, Ala.
Name: Mary Kate Gygax
Age: 24
Party: Republican
Supporting: Rick Santorum
Location: Huntsville, Ala.
Occupation: Defense contractor
Concerned About: Abortion
- 
6:42 P.M. | Exit Polls: Handling an International Crisis
Over the past few weeks, headlines may have reminded voters in Alabama that the president's job goes beyond being merely focused on domestic issues, with a deadly rampage by an American soldier causing furor in Afghanistan, news of Syrian mass killings and Israel's increasing pressure on dealing with Iran's potential nuclear program.
The situation in Afghanistan was a reminder of the power of foreign crises to - at least momentarily - divert attention from other issues on the campaign trail. The presidential candidates quickly reacted to the incident and the implications for American war policy.
Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Santorum said the incident raised doubts about the future of the mission, while Mr. Romney said on Tuesday that regular reviews of the mission should be part of the president's policy in the future.
In Alabama on Tuesday, primary voters were somewhat divided over which candidate would best handle an international crisis. Nearly 4 in 10 said Mr. Gingrich, the former House speaker, would be best at dealing with an international crisis, while about 3 in 10 chose Mr. Romney and 2 in 10 said Mr. Santorum.
- 
6:35 P.M. | Exit Polls: Electability
As has been the case in every Republican contest so far, voters in Alabama and Mississippi say the top quality they're looking for in a candidate is his ability to defeat Mr. Obama, according to preliminary exit polls.
The early measure of voter sentiment from the two Southern states offers some hope for Mr. Romney, who won these voters in every state except Georgia and South Carolina, where they supported Mr. Gingrich.
Mr. Romney has spent much of the past year arguing that he is best positioned to defeat Mr. Obama, in part because of his fund-raising prowess and his campaign organization.
But his rivals, Mr. Santorum and Mr. Gingrich, have argued that the similarities between some of Mr. Romney's positions and those of Mr. Obama will make it difficult for Republicans to win.
Voters in Alabama and Mississippi appeared to agree more often with Mr. Romney; in the preliminary exit polls, they were most apt to cite him as the most electable candidate in the field.
Even so, Mr. Romney and his rivals are facing an electorate Tuesday that is somewhat more conservative than it was four years ago.
About 4 in 10 voters in Mississippi call themselves "very conservative" - if that holds through the night, that would be an increase from 2008, when about a third of Republican primary voters there were very conservative. In Alabama, nearly 4 in 10 describe themselves that way, similar to four years ago.
But Mr. Romney still has trouble connecting with voters in the South. When voters Tuesday were asked which candidate best understands the problems of average Americans, preliminary exit polls find Mr. Romney trailing Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Santorum in Alabama, and Mr. Gingrich in Mississippi.
- 
6:27 P.M. | Voter Portraits: Vestavia Hills, Ala.
Name: James Forman
Age: 83
Party: Republican
Supporting: Newt Gingrich
Location: Vestavia Hills, Ala.
Occupation: Retired life insurance salesman
Concerned About: Defeating President Obama
- 
6:13 P.M. | Voters' Voices: In Mississippi, Electability Is Crucial
PASS CHRISTIAN, Miss. - Here in the muggy precincts on the Gulf Coast, where voters are solidly Republican but tend to be of the socially moderate variety, Mr. Romney is expected to do well. Those expectations appear to be well-founded.
"I'm a realist," said John Dane, 61, the president of Trinity Yachts, a boat building company. There are some things about Mr. Romney that Mr. Dane does not agree with, but overall it was an easy choice.
"He's got the business background and I think he's the right one to do it," Mr. Dane said. "He's conservative but closer to middle" - meaning that Mr. Romney is in the best position to achieve Mr. Dane's 2012 priority: beating President Obama.
The voting traffic was brisk here at the West Harrison County Civic Center, a few blocks in from the beach. That should bode well for Mr. Romney, though not everyone here was a supporter.
"I like Newt Gingrich," said Mary Lee Puckett, a 56-year-old homemaker. "I think he's got a lot of experience making deals in Washington and that's what we need."
However, she added, beating Mr. Obama was most important, and "I can go with Romney if that's what I need to do."
Another voter described her feelings about supporting Mr. Romney more bluntly: "I don't like him but know what the last four years have been," said a 68-year-old retiree who gave her name only as Alice.
Alice was one of several voters in Mississippi on Tuesday who seemed to have lost her faith in the whole process. They described, in strikingly similar terms, a system hopelessly corroded by money, where the politicians are completely shielded by hangers-on, donors and special interests from the reality of life for the average American.
"We're all frustrated because there's not a damn thing we can do about it," she said. "All politicians are crooks; it's just the matter of the least dangerous crook."
Alice, like nearly everyone else who talked of politics this way, supported Mr. Gingrich. "But," she added, "he's not going to win."
- 
6:12 P.M. | Exit Polls: The Economy
Both Mississippi and Alabama have had economic troubles, with high poverty rates and low income.
In Alabama, more than 8 in 10 voters said they were very worried about the direction of the nation's economy in the next few years, and another 1 in 10 voters said they were somewhat worried, according to preliminary exit poll results.
The economy was the top issue for nearly 6 in 10 voters in Alabama, while the federal budget deficit mattered most for about a quarter of voters. More than half of voters in Mississippi named the economy as most important in deciding how to vote, while nearly 3 in 10 named the deficit.
Alabama's unemployment rate is 7.8 percent, lower than the current national unemployment rate of 8.3 percent. But Alabama has one of the higher poverty rates in the country. Median income was only $40,976 in 2010, ranking it as one of the lowest income states in the country.
Mississippi's unemployment rate dropped to 9.9 percent in January, the first time in more than two years that it fell below 10 percent. Nearly a quarter of Mississippi's population lives in poverty, and median income is the lowest in the country, at $37,985.
- 
6:11 P.M. | Exit Polls: Evangelical Christians
Voters in Alabama and Mississippi overwhelmingly describe themselves as white, evangelical Christians, and many say that it matters "a great deal" that candidates share their religious beliefs, according to early exit poll results.
The demographics of the two states are similar to those in other Southern states where Mr. Santorum and Mr. Gingrich have done well and Mr. Romney has struggled.
Evangelical Christians account for about 8 in 10 voters in Alabama and Mississippi. If those numbers hold, the only other states that had nearly that many evangelical voters in the contests so far were Tennessee, with 76 percent, and Oklahoma, with 74 percent.
More than 4 in 10 voters in Mississippi and Alabama say it matters a great deal to them that a candidate share their religious beliefs. That's similar to the number of voters that said so in Tennessee (43 percent), but more than any other state where the question was asked.
The religious makeup of Mississippi and Alabama offer a potentially tough terrain for Mr. Romney. In the five states this year where evangelicals made up more than 50 percent of those voting, Mr. Romney lost.
By contrast, Mr. Romney, who is a Mormon, won all of the states where the evangelical population was below 30 percent.
- 
6:10 P.M. | A Barbourless Ballot in Mississippi
There may have been a sense of anticlimax for some Mississippians as they went to the polls on Tuesday. After years of speculation that their former governor, Haley Barbour, would run for president, their Republican presidential primary ballots were once again Barbourless.
With his background as a savvy former chairman of the Republican National Committee, talk of a possible White House bid seemed to begin almost as soon Mr. Barbour was sworn in as governor of Mississippi in 2004. It seemed to get stirred up again every time the state was hit with a misfortune. After Hurricane Katrina devastated the Gulf Coast in 2005, raising his national profile, Mr. Barbour found himself mentioned as a possible candidate in 2008. Later, when BP spilled millions of barrels of oil into the Gulf of Mexico in 2010, it prompted rumors of a Barbour '12 campaign. Mr. Barbour explored a possible run last year.
In the end, Mr. Barbour - who found himself facing questions about his time as a lobbyist, and about his state's troubled racial history - decided not to run. And last week, when he might have been gearing up for a presidential primary in his home state, a controversy that began when he gave pardons to nearly 200 felons during his final days in office was drawing to a close: the Mississippi Supreme Court ruled that the judicial branch could not void them.
But the political acumen that has long made reporters seek him out was still on display, as when he discussed the state of the Republican race at a conference last week. "The nominating process can be unruly, clumsy, backwards, confusing, counter-productive or all of the above, and we've got a little bit of that going on right now," Mr. Barbour was quoted as saying by Politico. "The good news is it's eight months until the election."
Mr. Barbour has not endorsed a candidate, but two nephews are supporting Mr. Romney: Henry Barbour, a member of the Republican National Committee, and Austin Barbour, who has raised money for Mr. Romney.
- 
5:51 P.M. | Tea Party Is Strong in Mississippi and Alabama
The Tea Party movement appears to be deeply embedded in both Mississippi and Alabama, with about two-thirds of voters in those states saying they support it and more than half indicating strong support, according to preliminary exit poll results.
This following is comparable to what was seen in the Georgia and Oklahoma primaries last week, but not as high as the 75 percent level recorded in Nevada last month.
In Mississippi, four in five primary voters identified themselves as Republicans. In neighboring Alabama, however, only two in three voters said they were Republican, a significantly smaller proportion than four years ago in the state, when 78 percent identified as Republicans.
That year, voters who identified themselves as Republicans split their votes between the establishment candidate, Senator John McCain, and the social conservative candidate, Mike Huckabee, who won the state on the strength of his support among independents. (Mr. Romney did better among Republicans than independents that year, though he did not win either of the groups.)
- 
4:53 P.M. | Romney Competes in Unfavorable Terrain
Demographically, the primaries in Alabama and Mississippi on Tuesday should not be favorable to Mr. Romney.
The two Southern states are filled with evangelical voters who have expressed deep reservations about Mr. Romney in just about every contest so far. In Iowa, he won 14 percent of those voters, less than half of Mr. Santorum's support, according to surveys of voters arriving at the caucuses.
And culturally, Mr. Romney is about as distant from the South as can be - despite his clumsy attempt recently to declare a love of grits or speak with an exaggerated "y'all" at appearances in the states.
But polls suggest a tight race in both places and Mr. Romney's advisers have been raising expectations that he could win one or both. "I feel good about them both," Mr. Romney said Tuesday afternoon, noting that polls show him to be competitive in the two places.
That could be the result of what national surveys say is a growing strength for Mr. Romney: a belief that he is destined to be the nominee.
Read more
- 
4:52 P.M. | Votes Are More Against Than For in 2 Southern States
HATTIESBURG, Miss. - Voters in Alabama and Mississippi went to the polls on Tuesday morning to settle what appeared to be a three-way-tie in the latest primaries for the Republican presidential nomination. A win in either or even both states for Mitt Romney, unforeseeable in the polls just days ago, seemed more and more possible in recent days, and could help his campaign's claims that he is the inevitable nominee. It would also give Mr. Romney a victory in one of the most conservative parts of the country, and help ease concerns about his acceptance by the Republican base.
But a resurgent Newt Gingrich, popular here for his defiant rhetoric and Southern background, could further roil the race for the nomination with a win or two here, just as a convincing victory by Rick Santorum would practically ensure a two-man race with Mr. Romney and no end to what has already been an unremitting primary season. Mr. Santorum was helped on Tuesday, when a spokesman for Gov. Robert Bentley of Alabama confirmed that he voted in the primary for the former Pennsylvania senator. While Republican leaders in Alabama and Mississippi were happy that, for the first time in years, their states mattered in a presidential primary, voters were less than thrilled with the attention or their choices.
Read more
- 

        
Jacksonville Debate Live Blog
        
Live Blog: The State of the Union
        
Live Blog: Republican Debate in Tampa, Fla.
        
Live Blog: South Carolina Primary
        
Charleston, S.C., Debate Live Blog

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAUCUSES (94%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); RELIGION (62%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%) live blogging; Primaries and Caucuses; Alabama; American Samoa; Hawaii; Mississippi; Elections

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (64%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); ALABAMA, USA (95%); HAWAII, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (95%); AMERICAN SAMOA (90%) Alabama; American Samoa; Hawaii; Mississippi

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



544 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: A.F.L.-C.I.O. Endorses Obama

BYLINE: STEVEN GREENHOUSE


HIGHLIGHT: Although it came as no surprise, the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the nation's main union federation, gave President Obama its powerful endorsement on Tuesday. 

 BODY:
ORLANDO -- Although it came as no surprise, the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the nation's main union federation, gave President Obama its powerful endorsement on Tuesday, promising to deploy hundreds of thousands of union volunteers on his behalf.
 In announcing the endorsement, Richard Trumka, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president, praised Mr. Obama for pushing through job creation programs, a comprehensive health insurance program and Wall Street reform as well as fighting to revive manufacturing.
 Mr. Trumka said that the 57 unions belonging to the labor federation had voted overwhelmingly to back Mr. Obama at the group's executive council meeting here.
"President Obama honors the values of hard work, of mutual respect, and of solving problems together-not every person for himself or herself," Mr. Trumka said in a statement. "Each of the Republican presidential candidates, on the other hand, has pledged to uphold the special privileges of Wall Street and the 1 percent."
Labor leaders have had their differences with Mr. Obama, mainly over some of his bolder proposals to cut the budget deficit, but Mr. Trumka said it was time to rally behind the president, especially because he has strongly embraced labor's priorities in recent months.
"I think he's made a complete pivot -- You remember that was a period of time he was mired in that debate about deficit reduction, he wasn't talking about jobs," Mr. Trumka said. "Since Labor Day he's been talking about jobs, jobs jobs. He's also been talking about inequality, that this economy is really unfair to 99 percent of the people."
 Worried about the tens of millions of dollars that Republican "super PAC's" are expected to spend this year, A.F.L.-C.I.O. leaders said they hoped to counter that by putting together their largest political mobilization ever - with as many as 400,000 volunteers making phone calls and knocking on doors. And for the first time, unions, as a result of a 2010 Supreme Court decision, will be able to - and plan to - knock on the doors of millions of voters who do not belong to unions with the aim of persuading them to vote for Mr. Obama as well as labor-friendly candidates in state and local races.
A.F.L.-C.I.O. officials declined to say how much money they planned to spend in this year's campaign, although the federation is expected to spend somewhat more than the $53 million it said it spent in 2008 -- some of which went to state and local races. Union leaders said that this year, in addition to trying to elect Mr. Obama, they would focus more than ever on state and local races to try to win Democrat legislative majorities with the hope of blocking future anti-union legislative efforts, like those in Wisconsin and Indiana.
 Many union officials have voiced antagonism toward Mitt Romney, who holds the lead in delegates in the Republican nominating fight, especially after he repeatedly attacked "union bosses" during the Michigan primary. Many labor leaders have also voiced dismay with Mr. Romney for opposing the bailout of General Motors and Chrysler. He said it was a huge favor to the United Auto Workers, but labor leaders hailed the rescue, saying it saved more than 1 million jobs in the Midwest.
The endorsement brought criticism from the Romney campaign.
"Big labor unions spent hundreds of millions of dollars to elect President Obama, and he has been repaying them ever since," said Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for Mr. Romney. "Union bosses have repeatedly attacked Mitt Romney in this campaign because they know he will end the sweetheart deals they have enjoyed under President Obama."
Mr. Trumka lashed into Mr. Romney at his news conference. "Mitt Romney doesn't have a clue what workers go through," he said. "Everything he does identifies with the 1 percent. Everything he does helps the 1 percent." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); BUDGETS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); POLITICAL ORGANIZING (66%); US LABOR DAY (64%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (56%) Obama, Barack; Endorsements; Organized Labor; Presidential Election of 2012; American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (94%) American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



545 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Female Voters and the Republican Primary

BYLINE: KATE PHILLIPS and ALLISON KOPICKI


HIGHLIGHT: All of the talk about birth control and abortion laws seemes to have had little effect on the ways women are voting for the two leading Republican candidates, Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum, at least according to exit polls in the primaries. 

 BODY:
All of the talk about birth control and abortion laws seems to have had little effect on the ways women are voting for the two leading Republican candidates, Mitt Romney and Rick Santorum, at least according to exit polls in the primaries.
The best states to scrutinize for any clues are those that have voted more recently, because Mr. Santorum has gained quite a bit of momentum and is winning more states. Since his trifecta in early February -- when he won contests in Colorado, Minnesota and Missouri -- Mr. Santorum has gained thousands and thousands of supporters, allowing for a deeper analysis. 
Especially in Michigan and Ohio, some distinct patterns among subsets of female voters began to surface that may provide a few clues to their preferences, but are not necessarily any evidence of a significant shift in female voting preference between Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum. And technically, some of these splits can't be classified as a "gender gap" per se, because the women's numbers aren't that different from the men's. 
Let's look at Michigan first: Catholic women went for Mr. Romney by 15 percentage points over Mr. Santorum, although Catholic men were split. In Ohio, where the race was extremely close last Tuesday, Mr. Romney had a strong lead with Catholics over all, and Catholic men backed him even slightly more than Catholic women.
But as our colleagues note, Catholics tend to be swing voters, and so far this season, they've tended to sway to the winner - who in many states, Nevada and Florida to name just two, has been Mr. Romney. (In Massachusetts last Tuesday, where Mr. Romney, the state's former governor, won by a commanding lead, nearly three-quarters of Catholic men and women voted for him. Of course that's also the home state of the Kennedys, and just a week earlier Mr. Santorum insulted John F. Kennedy's 1960 speech on the separation between church and state. Even though Mr. Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator and a Roman Catholic, later said he regretted the words he used, his remarks probably didn't endear him to those who hold dear the Kennedy legacy - or that of the first Catholic president.)
For other clues, let's turn to smaller groups of women voters in Ohio. By far, unmarried women favored Mr. Romney over Mr. Santorum by the biggest difference - 45 percent to 28 percent -- and among all unmarried voters, Mr. Romney had slightly more in his corner.
A similar difference could be found among working women, who also chose Mr. Romney in greater numbers than their male working counterparts who gave a slight edge to Mr. Santorum.
Married men in Ohio split nearly evenly, while married women slid a little more into Mr. Santorum's column.
Another measure that is slightly revealing is the independent voters' share in Michigan and Ohio, where they and Democrats were allowed to take part in the primaries. Mr. Romney attracted far more independent women than Mr. Santorum in Michigan, while they split the same segment in Ohio.
On the flip side of this equation, Mr. Santorum fared better among all female groups and married/unmarried voters in two states he won handily last Tuesday, Tennessee and Oklahoma, and tonight's results in Alabama and Mississippi may be similar.
All these states are conservative Republican strongholds, with large numbers of evangelical Christians. Last Tuesday in Tennessee, unmarried men selected Mr. Santorum more than unmarried women, but women over all also favored Mr. Santorum. And in Oklahoma, the picture is pretty much the same.
(There are no breakouts among Catholic men and women or working men and women in those states.)
For those conservative states, answers to a few of the exit poll questions provide some insight into how women are making their decisions: More women in Ohio, Oklahoma and Tennessee are more likely to be evangelical Christians and to place importance on a candidate's religious beliefs.
So far, in many of these states, women aren't differing much on economic or political issues, according to the exit polls. While conservative women are voting, there are far fewer moderate women taking part in the G.O.P. primaries so far. And, the number of young women voting in the Republican contests is so little as to be statistically invisible when looking at most measures.
It's a lot different, especially looking at numbers in the latest New York Times/CBS News poll, when it comes to the general election. In a theoretical matchup between President Obama and Mr. Romney, half of the women surveyed backed Mr. Obama with 39 percent going for Mr. Romney; in an Obama-Santorum race, Mr. Obama still got half of the women's vote, with 40 percent backing Mr. Santorum. Men prefer the Republican candidates, although not by a wide margin. 
And as far as whether the so-called gender gap settles in or settles down, it's merely too soon to tell for the general election cycle.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (94%); VOTERS & VOTING (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); ABORTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RELIGION (89%); WOMEN (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (73%); CHURCH & STATE (50%) Presidential Election of 2012; Voting and Voters; Women and Girls; Elections

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (92%); MITT ROMNEY (91%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



546 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1092 words

HEADLINE: Highlights of the Exit Polls in the Deep South G.O.P. Primaries

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Key findings from the exit polls in Alabama and Mississippi: voters are overwhelmingly white evangelicals who care most about beating President Obama. 

 BODY:
Evangelical Christians
Voters in Alabama and Mississippi overwhelmingly describe themselves as white, evangelical Christians, and many say that it matters "a great deal" that candidates share their religious beliefs, according to early exit poll results.
The demographics of the two states are similar to those in other Southern states where Rick Santorum and Newt Gingrich have done well and Mr. Romney has struggled.
Evangelical Christians account for about 8 in 10 voters in Alabama and Mississippi. If those numbers hold, the only other states that had nearly that many evangelical voters in the contests so far were Tennessee, with 76 percent, and Oklahoma, with 74 percent.
More than 4 in 10 voters in Mississippi and Alabama say it matters a great deal to them that a candidate share their religious beliefs. That's similar to the number of voters that said so in Tennessee (43 percent), but more than any other state where the question was asked.
The religious makeup of Mississippi and Alabama offer a potentially tough terrain for Mr. Romney. In the five states this year where evangelicals made up more than 50 percent of those voting, Mr. Romney lost.
By contrast, Mitt Romney, who is a Mormon, won all of the states where the evangelical population was below 30 percent. -Michael D. Shear and Dalia Sussman
Electability
As has been the case in every Republican contest so far, voters in Alabama and Mississippi say the top quality they're looking for in a candidate is his ability to defeat Mr. Obama, according to preliminary exit polls.
The early measure of voter sentiment from the two Southern states offers some hope for Mr. Romney, who won these voters in every state except Georgia and South Carolina, where they supported Mr. Gingrich.
Mr. Romney has spent much of the past year arguing that he is best positioned to defeat Mr. Obama, in part because of his fund-raising prowess and his campaign organization.
But his rivals, Mr. Santorum and Mr. Gingrich, have argued that the similarities between some of Mr. Romney's positions and those of Mr. Obama will make it difficult for Republicans to win.
Voters in Alabama and Mississippi appeared to agree more often with Mr. Romney; in the preliminary exit polls, they were most apt to cite him as the most electable candidate in the field.
Even so, Mr. Romney and his rivals are facing an electorate Tuesday that is somewhat more conservative than it was four years ago.
About 4 in 10 voters in Mississippi call themselves "very conservative" - if that holds through the night, that would be an increase from 2008, when about a third of Republican primary voters there were very conservative. In Alabama, nearly 4 in 10 describe themselves that way, similar to four years ago.
But Mr. Romney still has trouble connecting with voters in the South. When voters Tuesday were asked which candidate best understands the problems of average Americans, preliminary exit polls find Mr. Romney trailing Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Santorum in Alabama, and Mr. Gingrich in Mississippi. -Michael D. Shear and Dalia Sussman
The Economy
Both Mississippi and Alabama have had economic troubles, with high poverty rates and low income.
In Alabama, more than 8 in 10 voters said they were very worried about the direction of the nation's economy in the next few years, and another 1 in 10 voters said they were somewhat worried, according to preliminary exit poll results.
The economy was the top issue for nearly 6 in 10 voters in Alabama, while the federal budget deficit mattered most for about a quarter of voters. More than half of voters in Mississippi named the economy as most important in deciding how to vote, while nearly 3 in 10 named the deficit.
Alabama's unemployment rate is 7.8 percent, lower than the current national unemployment rate of 8.3 percent. But Alabama has one of the higher poverty rates in the country. Median income was only $40,976 in 2010, ranking it as one of the lowest income states in the country.
Mississippi's unemployment rate dropped to 9.9 percent in January, the first time in more than two years that it fell below 10 percent. Nearly a quarter of Mississippi's population lives in poverty, and median income is the lowest in the country, at $37,985. -Allison Kopicki
Handling an International Crisis
Over the past few weeks, headlines may have reminded voters in Alabama that the president's job goes beyond being merely focused on domestic issues, with a deadly rampage by an American soldier causing furor in Afghanistan, news of Syrian mass killings and Israel's increasing pressure on dealing with Iran's potential nuclear program.
The situation in Afghanistan was a reminder of the power of foreign crises to -- at least momentarily -- divert attention from other issues on the campaign trail. The presidential candidates quickly reacted to the incident and the implications for American war policy.
Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Santorum said the incident raised doubts about the future of the mission, while Mr. Romney said on Tuesday that regular reviews of the mission should be part of the president's policy in the future.
In Alabama on Tuesday, primary voters were somewhat divided over which candidate would best handle an international crisis. Nearly 4 in 10 said Mr. Gingrich, the former House speaker, would be best at dealing with an international crisis, while about 3 in 10 chose Mr. Romney and 2 in 10 said Mr. Santorum. -Allison Kopicki and Michael D. Shear
Tea Party Is Strong in Mississippi and Alabama

The Tea Party movement appears to be deeply embedded in both Mississippi and Alabama, with about two-thirds of voters in those states saying they support it and more than half indicating strong support, according to preliminary exit poll results.
This following is comparable to what was seen in the Georgia and Oklahoma primaries last week, but not as high as the 75 percent level recorded in Nevada last month.
In Mississippi, four in five primary voters identified themselves as Republicans. In neighboring Alabama, however, only two in three voters said they were Republican, a significantly smaller proportion than four years ago in the state, when 78 percent identified as Republicans.
That year, voters who identified themselves as Republicans split their votes between the establishment candidate, Senator John McCain, and the social conservative candidate, Mike Huckabee, who won the state on the strength of his support among independents. (Mr. Romney did better among Republicans than independents that year, though he did not win either of the groups.) -David R. Jones

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%) The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (76%); RICK SANTORUM (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



547 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Breaking Down the Mississippi Vote: Religious, But Pragmatic

BYLINE: DALIA SUSSMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney managed to stay competitive with Rick Santorum and Newt Gingrich there partly because of the importance many voters placed on beating President Obama 

 BODY:
With a very conservative electorate and potentially the highest number of evangelical Christians in any Republican contest this year, Mississippi would seem to be a better demographic fit for Rick Santorum or Newt Gingrich than for Mitt Romney.
Indeed, about half of voters say Mr. Romney's positions on the issues are not conservative enough, while about a third say his positions are about right. Many more say Mr. Gingrich's or Mr. Santorum's positions are about right.
Yet Mr. Romney managed to stay competitive with Mr. Santorum and Mr. Gingrich there partly because of the importance many voters placed on beating President Obama and the perception that Mr. Romney is the candidate best able to do that.
In addition, exit poll results show that neither Mr. Gingrich nor Mr. Santorum was the clear favorite among very conservative voters. About a third of them supported Mr. Santorum, while as many backed Mr. Gingrich. A quarter preferred Mr. Romney. Mr. Romney was backed by more voters who described themselves as only somewhat conservative or moderate.
Evangelical Christians, who accounted for about 8 in 10 voters, also divided their loyalties, with each of the top three candidates winning roughly a third of their vote. But Mr. Santorum edged out the others those who said it mattered a great deal that a candidate share their religious beliefs (nearly half of all voters).
About 4 in 10 voters said their top quality was electability, and they were more apt to favor Mr. Romney. About 2 in 10 voters said they were most looking for a candidate with strong moral values, while as many said they wanted a true conservative - both strong groups for Mr. Santorum. Mr. Gingrich ran best among the 2 in 10 voters most looking for someone with the right experience.
While Mississippi voters picked Mr. Romney as the candidate with the best chance of winning in November, Mr. Gingrich had an edge on the question of who best understands the problems of average Americans.
Mr. Gingrich ran stronger among married men than among married women; he trailed Mr. Romney and Mr. Santorum among married women.
The top issue to most voters, as in all other contests, was the economy. More than a third of these voters supported Mr. Romney, while about 3 in 10 backed Mr. Gingrich or Mr. Santorum.
Graphic: How Different Groups Voted

        
Breaking Down the Alabama Vote: Conservatives Divided
        
Alabama Governor Says He Voted for Santorum
        
The Gingriches Get Down, Though He's Down in Alabama Poll
        
Breaking Down Romney's Support
        
Highlights of New Hampshire's Vote

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%) exit polls; Mississippi; Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012; Primaries and Caucuses; The Caucus

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (94%); RICK SANTORUM (93%); MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (73%) Gingrich, Newt; Romney, Mitt; Santorum, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Mississippi

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



548 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Wait. Wasn't Obama Winning?

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: It looked like the president was on the way up, but his popularity is sinking again. What's going on? 

 BODY:
Why aren't President Obama's poll numbers higher? That's the question unsettling the Washington conventional wisdom this week. Amid improving economic growth, a grim and grinding Republican primary campaign and the White House's skillful exploitation of Rush Limbaugh's boorishness, Obama's reelection was being taken almost for granted in many political circles. But then came a pair of surveys - one from the Washington Post and ABC and one from the New York Times and CBS - that showed the president's approval ratings sinking this month back toward the lower 40s after a steady winter climb.
Everyone has a theory. Maybe it's rising gas prices. Maybe it's anxieties over Iran and Afghanistan. Maybe it's a backlash against the president's overconfident selling of a still-weak recovery. Maybe it's evidence that the White House's claim that religious resistance to its contraception mandate represents a "war on women" isn't finding as many takers as the media narrative suggested.
But maybe the specific "why" doesn't really matter all that much. Whatever tugged the president's numbers back downward is clearly a small issue (or issues), not something huge and earth-shattering - and it's precisely that smallness that should have the White House worried. 
The message of the latest polls isn't that springtime gas prices and culture war debates will determine who wins the White House in November. Rather, it's that Obama's political position is tenuous enough that it doesn't take all that much bad news - particularly on the economy - for his approval ratings to go negative.
The president's essential problem today is the same as it was last summer, when brutal unemployment numbers and the specter of a debt crisis made his re-election look more doubtful. Obama was elected to be a domestic policy president, and his signature domestic policy achievements are all persistently unpopular.
The stimulus package's economic effectiveness will be debated for as long as human beings read Keynes and Hayek, but as a political matter it was a flop. The White House overpromised and underdelivered, creating a widespread public perception that its central recession-fighting program had failed outright.
Liberals are confident that the president's health care bill will become popular once its provisions are fully in effect. But that won't happen until 2014 or beyond, and Americans are sharply divided over the bill today, with polls regularly showing pluralities favoring outright repeal and huge majorities opposing the mandate requiring individuals to buy insurance.
Then there's the auto bailout, which the White House (joined by G.M. and Chrysler) has spent the last few months touting as a great success. Michiganders agree, but the country does not: By 51 to 44 percent, the most recent Gallup survey finds, Americans still disapprove of the decision to bail out automakers.
As of a month ago, Obama's overall job approval numbers were positive only on foreign policy issues and the environment. They were in the 30s and 40s on every other domestic issue, from taxes and deficits to health care and jobs.
This is not a record that lends itself to an obvious re-election pitch. (.) The president will have to evade his own record as often as he touts it, and his message will necessarily lack the clarity and coherence of Reagan's "morning in America" or Clinton's "bridge to the twenty-first century" - or even the George W. Bush's campaign's persistent 2004 theme, "he kept us safe." And it will necessarily be more negative as well, since the best way to defend a relatively unpopular record is usually to argue that the other guy is a fanatic or a shill for plutocracy.
A themeless, defensive and pudding-like message - can still be a winning one. Against the backdrop of steady job growth, facing a weak nominee and an opposition party still tainted by the Bush era, the president still looks likes the favorite.
But while it will be hard for Republicans to beat him, the unpopularity of the Obama record ensures that it won't be hard to sow doubts about his leadership. This means that more than many previous incumbents, the president's poll numbers will probably be extremely vulnerable to whatever's front-and-center in the news. The White House's case for re-election is a relatively fragile thing, and it will be easy for short-term developments - a month or two of bad jobs numbers, an even sharper spike in gas prices, a failed strategic gambit or a rhetorical gaffe - to pluck a strand out or snip a hole in it. Even if President Obama ends up winning, in other words, he'll have a lot of weeks like this one along the way.

        
Looking Beyond Election Day
        
How to Get the Rich to Share the Marbles
        
Debt Splits the Left
        
Rick Santorum's Anti-College Rant
        
Do We Hate the Rich or Don't We?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); PRICE INCREASES (69%) gas prices; jobs; polls; President Obama; the economy; the presidential election of 2012; Unemployment; Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; United States

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (57%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



549 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: Leading Aluminum Company's Chairman Quits in Dispute

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- A big shareholder in a leading aluminum company stepped down as chairman on Tuesday in a dispute with another wealthy Russian owner about whether the company, Rusal, should focus solely on aluminum or also keep a foothold in other mining ventures. 
Viktor F. Vekselberg, who has a 16 percent stake, resigned by sending an open letter to the board criticizing the company's management, which is controlled by another Russian industrialist, Oleg V. Deripaska.
''Due to the actions of its management, Rusal is now facing a deep crisis,'' the letter said. ''Rusal, in my opinion, transformed from an international leader of the aluminum industry into a company overburdened with debt and entangled in numerous lawsuits and social conflicts.''
The letter did not provide details. However, Mr. Vekselberg and Mr. Deripaska have clashed over whether Rusal should sell its minority stake in another Russian metals behemoth, the Arctic mining company Norilsk Nickel.
Shares in Rusal, which competes with the American aluminum company Alcoa and is an important supplier to Chinese manufacturers, fell 1.3 percent before trading was suspended Tuesday on the Hong Kong stock exchange.
Rusal, formed over the last decade by reuniting the detritus of the Soviet aluminum industry, produces about 10 percent of the global supply of the metal used in cars, airplanes and construction, and as kitchen foil.
But Mr. Deripaska, who is still the largest owner of shares, had aspired for an even larger role for Rusal. He envisioned the company monopolizing nonferrous metals output from Russia.
In a poorly timed deal in 2008 -- at the peak of the market in Russia before the global economic recession -- he took on debt to acquire a quarter of the shares of Norilsk from Mikhail D. Prokhorov, the oligarch who is now largely out of day-to-day Russian business and ran for president this winter.
Since that transaction, creditors and some shareholders in Rusal, including Mr. Vekselberg, have pushed the company to sell this stake, though Mr. Deripaska has refused, saying the original strategy will prove valid once global markets recover.
Instead of selling, Rusal under Mr. Deripaska's control became embroiled in lawsuits and boardroom fights at Norilsk. It strove to compel that company to pay higher dividends that in turn could help pay down Rusal's debt, which is owed to Wall Street and European banks as well as the Russian government.
If Europe's economy continues to swoon and aluminum prices fall further, the reluctance to sell the Norilsk stake would seem to put Rusal in renewed risk of defaulting on its debt.
In January, Rusal negotiated a new yearlong debt holiday with creditors.
Rusal issued a statement Tuesday saying that Mr. Vekselberg, whose other assets include shares in a venture with the British oil company BP, had been shirking his duties on the board and would have been voted out.
''Mr. Vekselberg had failed to perform his functions as a public company board chairman over the past 12 months,'' the statement said. It said that he had skipped board meetings and a gathering of shareholders in June in Hong Kong.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Rusal factory in Russia. The company's chairman disagreed with management over the direction the company should take. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREY RUDAKOV/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (94%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); NONFERROUS METAL PRODUCTION (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ALUMINUM MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MINES & MINING (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%)

COMPANY: UNITED CO RUSAL LTD (90%); AMERICAN ALUMINUM CO (69%); OJSC MMC NORILSK NICKEL (58%); ALCOA INC (55%)

TICKER: RUSAL (PAR) (90%); 0486 (HKSE) (90%); NNIA (FRA) (58%); MNOD (LSE) (58%); GMKN (RTS) (58%); AAI (ASX) (55%); AA (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (90%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (90%); NAICS331314 SECONDARY SMELTING & ALLOYING OF ALUMINUM (90%); NAICS331491 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT COPPER & ALUMINUM) ROLLING, DRAWING & EXTRUDING (69%); SIC3356 ROLLING, DRAWING & EXTRUDING OF NONFERROUS METALS, EXCEPT COPPER & ALUMINUM (69%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (58%); SIC1099 MISCELLANEOUS METAL ORES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: OLEG DERIPASKA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ARCTIC (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



550 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Most Banks, But Not All, Pass the Fed's Stress Tests

BYLINE: By PETER EAVIS and J. B. SILVER-GREENBERG; Floyd Norris contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve had a key take-away from the latest round of stress tests: most big banks are in good shape.
On Tuesday, the central bank said that 15 of the 19 largest financial firms had enough capital to withstand a severe recession. The results, announced two days ahead of schedule, paved the way for JPMorgan Chase and other banks to bolster dividends and buy back shares.
''When you put banks under the kind of dramatic scenarios that the Fed did -- and they are still doing well -- it tells you how well capitalized the majority of the banks are coming out of this downturn,'' said Michael Scanlon, a senior equity analyst with Manulife Asset Management in Boston. 
But the stress tests also underscored the uneven nature of the industry's recovery. Firms like JPMorgan and Wells Fargo are proving resilient, as they clean up their books and the economy improves. Still others, including Citigroup and Ally Financial, remain on shaky ground, grappling with soured mortgages and other troubled businesses.
Banks are completing their third round of stress tests. Developed in the wake of the financial crisis, the examination is intended to assess how banks will fare under weak economic conditions. The Fed looked at whether banks would have enough capital to weather a peak unemployment rate of 13 percent, a 21 percent drop in housing prices and severe market shocks, as well as economic slowdowns in Europe and Asia.
The Fed's stress tests assumed that the 19 banks would be slammed with $534 billion of losses in just over two years. Even after such hits, most banks would emerge with adequate capital, the central bank said Tuesday. One measure of capital for the banks, which currently stands at 10.1 percent of assets, would fall to 6.3 percent in the Fed's ugly projection.
As fragmentary results of the tests circulated before the end of trading, the news buoyed shares of some banks.
JPMorgan shares were up 7 percent. Stock in both Bank of America and Goldman Sachs jumped by 6 percent.
The individual results are likely to intensify questions about a bank's health. In the stress tests, the Fed projected that a crucial measure of Citigroup's capital cushion would drop to a low of 4.9 percent of its assets.
Only Ally Financial and SunTrust Banks fared worse. A spokeswoman for Ally Financial said that the Fed's stress test ''dramatically overstates potential contingent mortgage risk.'' SunTrust did not return calls for comment.
When banks don't pass muster, the central bank can force them to raise more capital or postpone their dividend plans. On Tuesday, Citigroup said the Fed had rejected its proposal to return capital to shareholders. The firm intends to submit a revised plan to the central bank this year and ''to engage further with the Federal Reserve to understand their new stress loss models,'' it said in a statement.
Banks with a clean bill of health can get the green light to increase dividend payments. Such moves could help appease shareholders whose bank stocks have been battered since the financial crisis.
With strong results in hand, JPMorgan Chase announced that it would raise its quarterly dividend by 5 cents, to 30 cents, and buy back at least $15 billion of its stock through 2013.
The bank disclosed its dividend plans two days earlier than when the Fed was scheduled to announce the stress tests. In a conference call, a senior Fed official said JPMorgan's early move was the result of miscommunication. JPMorgan's chief executive, Jamie Dimon, has frequently criticized certain measures aimed at increasing capital since the financial crisis.
JPMorgan's move was a bold show of optimism. The share repurchases alone -- roughly $12 billion this year -- would amount to roughly two-thirds of analysts' expected earnings for the bank for the year.
Despite the apparent severity of the tests, some analysts say they think it is too early for the Fed to allow large banks to take actions that could reduce capital. ''It's irresponsible,'' said Anat Admati, a professor of finance and economics at Stanford University. Professor Admati says that depleting capital can expose the wider economy to risks because it leaves banks more exposed to shocks.
Another potential shortcoming in the tests is that they don't focus on one of the main problems the industry faced during the financial crisis, the difficulties banks had borrowing money in the markets.
The big question now is whether the latest stress tests will improve confidence in the banking system. Shares in banks languished after the last stress tests, indicating that investors still had big doubts about banks' balance sheets.
The strength of banks' loan books varied greatly. Under extreme stress, the Fed said, Citigroup would lose 9.7 percent of its first mortgage loans, more than any other bank. Both Wells Fargo and PNC would suffer losses of at least 9 percent.
In business loans -- called commercial and industrial loans by bankers -- Citi and U.S. Bancorp had the worst portfolios, while Wells Fargo and Fifth Third had the shakiest credit card portfolios. In commercial real estate, regional banks appear to be the most vulnerable. Under the Fed's test, Fifth Third would suffer losses of 11.3 percent of its loans, with Regions Financial the only other bank expected to lose at least 7 percent of its loans.
Bank of America could serve as an important litmus test for whether the market has confidence in these results. In most troubled outlooks, the firm's capital levels remained above the Fed benchmarks. But the bank has large holdings of home loans, which could still expose it to further losses.
''The tests showed that those who didn't fare as well have a lot of vulnerability to the residential mortgage market,'' said Mr. Scanlon of Manulife.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jamie Dimon, the chief of JPMorgan Chase, which is raising its dividend. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT EELLS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1)
Of 19 large United States banks subject to the stress tests, SunTrust Banks and Citigroup were among the four that failed, grappling with soured mortgages and other troubled businesses. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS RANK/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B6) CHARTS: Scoring the Banks in Adverse Conditions: As part of their review of the stability of the biggest financial institutions, regulators have created estimates of what would happen to the capital ratios of the biggest banks if the economy soured substantially over the next seven quarters. (Source: Federal Reserve) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); RECESSION (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); HOME PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (85%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); SUNTRUST BANKS INC (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); STI (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (85%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



551 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Community Weighs In On Campus Giveaway

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

 BODY:
NORTHFIELD, Mass. -- As historic school campuses go, the one in this rural New England town is just about perfect, with pretty buildings of brick and stone scattered along a gentle hill.
So when word went out this winter that the owners were looking to give the campus away, the response was swift and deep. But there is a catch: the owners, a wealthy evangelical family from Oklahoma, will donate it only to a Christian institution.
In a part of the country where organized religion is on the wane, that makes some residents of the town and alumni of Northfield Mount Hermon, the prep school that owned the campus until 2009, nervous about just what kind of institution will move in. One candidate, in particular, has stirred an outcry: Liberty University, the evangelical institution in Virginia founded by the Rev. Jerry Falwell. 
More than 1,000 alumni of Northfield Mount Hermon have signed a petition calling Liberty ''an extremist, homophobic and intellectually narrow institution'' that clashes with the values of D. L. Moody, an evangelist who opened a school for girls on the property, his birthplace, in 1879.
''Whoever comes in there should have views consistent with the legacy of the place,'' said John Howley, a Northfield Mount Hermon alumnus and former trustee who signed the petition, which is addressed to the chairman of the school's board of trustees. He described Moody as a promoter of ''big-tent'' Christianity. ''We don't want it to go to a place that is not open-minded, not willing to listen to the views of others,'' he said.
The petition points to Mr. Falwell's suggestion after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks that they had reflected God's judgment on a nation spiritually weakened by ''the pagans, and the abortionists, and the feminists, and the gays and the lesbians'' and others who he said had ''tried to secularize America.'' And it questions the doctrinal statement on Liberty's Web site, which says, among other things, that the Bible is ''authoritative in all matters.''
The possibility of a Falwell-founded institution moving into town has not been the only surprise for this community of about 3,000. The first was Northfield Mount Hermon's sale of the campus in 2009 to Hobby Lobby, a chain of craft stores owned by the Green family.
The Greens had intended to give it to a foundation named for the writer C. S. Lewis, which hoped to open a Christian college here focused on the study of Great Books. But that plan faltered with the economy, and now the family is seeking a new taker.
The owners have heard from several dozen interested parties, but only a few, including Liberty, have the financial wherewithal to take over the 217-acre site, near the Vermont and New Hampshire borders in western Massachusetts.
The Greens have enlisted Jerry Pattengale, a college administrator from Indiana, to help find the right match for the campus. And Mr. Pattengale has been busy. He has shown 15 groups around the campus in recent weeks and listened to pitches from many more, including some who hoped the Green family would help finance their plan.
''The Greens don't want to be the Messiah,'' Mr. Pattengale said the other day as he led representatives of missionary groups from Colorado and Georgia around the campus. ''It's important to separate out those with a romantic notion of the place from those with a vision for a functional and self-sustaining program.''
Groups who want the entire campus will have priority, said Steve Green, the president of Hobby Lobby. That puts Liberty University -- which has discussed offering short-term courses in Northfield for online students based in the Northeast, and proposed sharing the campus with several other schools -- at a disadvantage.
''I don't know if they've ever been at the top of the list,'' Mr. Green said.
The Greens have invested heavily in Christian higher education, donating $70 million to Oral Roberts University and a $10.5 million building to Liberty for a law school, among other things.
Liberty, through a spokeswoman, declined to comment on the petition by Northfield Mount Hermon alumni or its proposal for using the campus.
The petition asks Northfield Mount Hermon's trustees to publicly oppose the possibility of Liberty coming to town. But in a statement last week, the board said it ''does not have the ability to control the way in which Hobby Lobby transfers its property.'' The school is now consolidated on a campus in nearby Gill, Mass.
Other interested parties include Azusa Pacific University and Olivet University, both Christian colleges in California, as well as the Interdenominational Theological Center, a consortium of seminaries based in Atlanta. Olivet is a leading candidate, Mr. Pattengale said, because it wants to use the entire property as a Northeastern campus for its growing student body and has a partnership with the World Evangelical Association, an international network of evangelical churches and groups.
Andrew Lin, an Olivet trustee who visited Northfield last week, said the university had been searching for property in the Northeast but had seen ''nothing as complete as this.'' He said that he could not imagine the presence of Olivet causing ''any sort of trouble'' in town.
''They could find a lot of value in what we do,'' Mr. Lin said. ''We are turning around men and women to be contributors to this world.''
On Sunday, about two dozen Northfield residents held a meeting to discuss the Liberty University proposal. But Don Campbell, a resident who attended part of the meeting, said it turned into a broader discussion of the town's hopes for the campus. Mr. Campbell said his own hope was that the new owners would not seek to ''overwrite other people's ways of thinking'' with their particular set of religious beliefs but, rather, to build bridges.
''That kind of model has real opportunity in this valley -- to engage with many people who have turned away from a faith practice as being meaningless,'' he said.
Mr. Campbell said the fears about who would take over the campus were ''probably overblown,'' but added that it was important for the community to make its values known.
''With what little influence we might have, how do we get that across?'' he said. ''People are asking each other to ask their best selves how to do that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The owners of a 217-acre former school campus in Northfield, Mass., are showing the site to Christian groups that would like to take it over, at no cost.
D. L. Moody, founder of what would become the Northfield Mount Hermon school.
 Jerry Pattengale, a college administrator from Indiana, has been in charge of finding the right Christian group to move onto the campus. He has shown 15 groups around the campus in recent weeks and listened to pitches from many more. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ILANA PANICH-LINSMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); PETITIONS (88%); ALUMNI (77%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); TERRORISM (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (66%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (63%); WRITERS (60%); SEWING & CRAFT STORES (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBERTY UNIVERSITY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



552 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Top Challenger In Egypt Vote Is an Islamist, And Moderate

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Mayy el Sheikh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
CAIRO -- One spent a career working beside Hosni Mubarak, the former president. The other spent years in his jails.
Now both are top contenders in what promises to be the first credible, competitive presidential election in Egyptian history. Amr Moussa, a charismatic former foreign minister, is the clear front-runner.
But the most unpredictable variable in the race is his leading challenger, Abdel Moneim Aboul Fotouh, a former leader of the Muslim Brotherhood whose iconoclastic campaign is now attracting the support not only of young Islamists but also of a growing number of liberals, like Rabab el-Mahdi.
''I felt Egypt needs to hear the core ideas of the left, but through an Islamist voice so it does not sound so alien,'' said Ms. Mahdi, 37, a Marxist and feminist who taught political science at Yale before joining his campaign. 
In practical terms, nearly everyone seems to agree that economic revival and public security are the most decisive issues in the race. But the contest is also setting off the first vigorous national dialogue about the balance between the free market and big government, the application of Islamic law, the status of women and Christians and relations with the United States and Israel.
Reliable opinion polling is scarce, and in the days since registration opened, more than 300 people have sought to enter the race. But aside from Mr. Moussa and Mr. Aboul Fotouh, most of the best-known contenders represent familiar political types: an old-school, ultraconservative Islamist, a Nasserite populist-socialist and a representative of the military and business elite who was Mr. Mubarak's last prime minister.
Waiting in the background is the Muslim Brotherhood, the mainstream Islamist group whose political party won nearly half of the parliamentary vote.
The Brotherhood pledged soon after Mr. Mubarak's overthrow last year that it would not field a presidential candidate. Its leaders said they feared that a victory might provoke a military crackdown. Instead, Egyptian politics now buzz with rumors about which candidate the Brotherhood might endorse or oppose.
The military rulers who took power after Mr. Mubarak have also pledged to stay out of the race, which they say will be their finale. After a first round of voting on May 23 and 24, a runoff on June 16 and 17 and the naming of a winner by June 21, the generals have promised to return to the barracks.
But, intentionally or not, the military-led transitional government has already tilted the playing field in favor of the best-known candidates, which in practice means Mr. Moussa.
The military has preserved the Mubarak-era election rules that hindered potential challengers. A compressed schedule, convoluted financing rules and strict spending limits all make it hard for newcomers to reach voters. Even getting on the ballot is a significant obstacle. The easiest way is to win the endorsement of one of the handful of parties in Parliament, or at least 30 of the roughly 500 lawmakers. Alternately, a candidate has to get a total of 30,000 citizens from 15 provinces to fill out an elaborate form during business hours in various central administrative offices -- all in less than a month.
Only the campaign of Mr. Moussa, who is far ahead in name recognition, is happy with the rules. Mr. Moussa, 75, spent a decade in the 1990s as Mr. Mubarak's foreign minister, during which he conducted a legendary televised debate with his Israeli counterpart that made him a national hero. In 2001, he inspired a popular song, ''I Hate Israel and I Love Amr Moussa.''
That is when Mr. Mubarak moved Mr. Moussa to a lower-profile post as secretary general of the toothless Arab League. He held the post until he quit to run for president.
Mr. Moussa, however, is not expected to radically shake up the Egyptian government or its relations with Israel. He has sought to stake out the political center without spelling out specifics or offending powerful interests, including either the military or the Islamists.
Political activists, though, despise him as a conservative vestige of the Mubarak era, an image his campaign concedes may be his biggest challenge.
''The question is not 'Was he part of the previous regime?' Yes, absolutely, he was,'' said Hisham Youssef, a senior adviser. ''But the question should be about his performance. Was he inferior or superior to those who preceded and succeeded him? Was he corrupt, or an honest politician?''
Mr. Aboul Fotouh, a trained doctor, is not as well known outside Islamist or political circles. He first came to national attention as a student at Cairo University, after a public forum with President Anwar el-Sadat. He directly challenged the president over the removal of an Islamist sheik from a major mosque, telling the president that he was surrounded by ''sycophants'' and ''hypocrites.''
''Stand right there, stop,'' Mr. Sadat shouted.
''I am standing, sir,'' Mr. Aboul Fotouh replied evenly.
Many had gone to prison for less, and recordings of Mr. Aboul Fotouh's now legendary defiance still circulate on the Internet.
He was later elected to lead the doctors' trade group, a Brotherhood stronghold. He spent more than six years in jail for his work with the group, then the principal opposition to Mr. Mubarak's monopoly on power. But he also became outspoken as an advocate of liberalization inside the Brotherhood.
In a conservative purge of moderates two years ago, he was removed from the group's ruling Guidance Council. Last year, he was expelled for defying the Brotherhood's decision not to offer a candidate for president.
His advisers say that many members of the Muslim Brotherhood, especially the younger generation, still support him, and he has won the endorsement of some prominent religious scholars, including Sheik Yusuf al-Qaradawi, an influential Egyptian exile living in Doha, Qatar.
Mr. Aboul Fotouh argues in television interviews, a staple of his campaign, that the Brotherhood should stop calling itself Islamist and instead say it is conservative, since in an open society Islamists can also be moderate or liberal. Of all the presidential contenders, Mr. Aboul Fotouh has been the most outspoken about full civilian control of the military, the protection of civil liberties and government spending on health care and education. His biggest challenge, his advisers say, is the opposition of his former colleagues in the Muslim Brotherhood. Its spokesman, Mahmoud Ghozlan, declared this week that the group would expel any member who supported Mr. Aboul Fotouh.
''Dr. Aboul Fotouh is very dangerous for them -- a matter of life and death,'' Ms. Mahdi said. ''If he succeeds, it means the Brotherhood loses its monopoly on moderate Islam. It shows that there is a multiplicity in Islam big enough to include Marxists and liberals. It tells their moderates that you can leave the Brotherhood and it is not the end of life.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Abdel Moneim Aboul Fotouh's campaign tent in Suez, Egypt. He is a former Muslim Brotherhood leader who is now attracting liberal supporters. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMR ABDALLAH DALSH/REUTERS
 MAX BECHERER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (89%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION LAW (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); WOMEN (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (68%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (74%) EGYPT (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



553 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Specialists in Rare Earths Say a Trade Case Against China May Be Too Late

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- Even as the United States, the European Union and Japan jointly filed a trade case Tuesday against China over its export restrictions on strategic rare earth metals, many specialists could not help wondering whether it was too little and too late for Western and Japanese manufacturers.
President Obama heralded the case as a landmark when he announced it at the White House on Tuesday morning, signaling that the United States and its allies would require China to play by international trade rules. 
''Our competitors should be on notice: You will not get away with skirting the rules,'' he said.
But international trade officials, industry leaders and specialists in China and the West noted that Beijing would have a strong hand of cards as it seeks to defend its export policies on rare earths.
The metals are needed for making an array of sophisticated products, from smartphones to smart bombs, as well as wind turbines and other green technologies. China is the source of more than 90 percent of the world's processed rare earth metals.
Even if the West and Japan overcome the stiff challenges of winning their case at the World Trade Organization, it could still take several years before Beijing changes its policies -- by which time companies in the West and Japan could have moved even more of their factories that use rare earth metals to China.
''The filing was too late,'' said Karl A. Gschneidner Jr., a rare earths specialist at the Energy Department's Ames Laboratory in Iowa. China was ''cutting off supplies and controlling things in the past couple years,'' he said.
He noted that this year the reopening of a long-idle American mine at Mountain Pass, Calif., and the opening of another mine in Australia would start putting more rare earths into the global supply chain -- potentially enough to meet more than half of the demand outside of China. But many rare earth metal users, including computer hardware manufacturers and producers of energy-efficient lighting, have already shifted operations to China and are unlikely to move soon.
But some specialists say that the West has benefited indirectly from China's quotas, because they drove rare earth prices up by as much as 30 times. That caused a boom in mining investment that is now opening alternatives to China.
''I don't think it's too little, too late,'' said Yaron Vorona, executive director of the Technology and Rare Earth Metals Center at the Institute for the Analysis of Global Security, a nonprofit organization in suburban Washington focusing on energy security.
Whatever the eventual implications for world supplies of rare earths, in some ways a recent Western victory on a somewhat related trade case may have strengthened China's hand.
The World Trade Organization ordered China last July to dismantle export duties and quotas on nine other industrial raw materials, including bauxite. An appeals tribunal upheld the ruling and added details in late January.
China has been able to study those orders as it has redesigned its export restrictions on rare earths. The new quotas are as stringent as the old ones, making it harder for Western manufacturers to obtain rare earths in the quantities and with the timeliness their factories require. But the revamped quota rules could be easier for China to defend in front of a W.T.O. tribunal, than its earlier policies would have been.
China, for example, has begun requiring its rare earth exporters to obtain a certificate of environmental compliance before they are allowed to make any overseas shipments. That could strengthen China's claim that export quotas on rare earths are environmentally necessary. Without dispute, the mining and processing of rare earths have many toxic and even radioactive byproducts -- which is one reason the West and Japan for decades were reluctant to produce them.
China denies claims by Western trade officials that Beijing has waved the environmental flag to disguise its true motive: to force Western and Japanese factories to move to China to gain access to an uninterrupted supply of low-cost rare earths.
The Chinese government has also lent large sums to four state-owned mining companies that are buying many of their smaller, private domestic rivals in rare earths. That raises the prospect that China could assemble a state-owned rare earth oligopoly -- one that could effectively limit exports without government policies that mandate the restrictions. W.T.O. rules mostly cover government regulations, not the behavior of oligopolies.
''It will be much more difficult for us to win the rare earth case than it was for us to win the previous case,'' said a Western trade official, referring to the W.T.O. rulings on industrial raw materials. The official, who insisted on anonymity because the case was diplomatically and legally delicate, added that the rare earth case could still be won because of voluminous files that point to abusive Chinese trade practices.
A diplomatic confrontation between China and Japan over disputed islands in September 2010, for example, turned into a Chinese show of force on rare earths. Chinese regulators abruptly summoned the presidents of China's rare earth mining companies to a secret meeting in Beijing, said a person with a detailed knowledge of the meeting, who insisted on anonymity to avoid angering Chinese officials.
The mining executives were told that the Chinese government was about to halt all shipments of rare earths to Japan, where the electronics industry, camera industry and others depended heavily on the materials. The executives were told that if any of their companies stepped up shipments to another country instead, allowing reshipment of rare earths from that country to Japan, then the company would lose its export license. The assembled executives were also warned against speaking to the news media about the coming embargo, this person said.
Chinese trade statistics showed that exports of rare earths to Japan dropped to almost zero during the embargo, which continued for two months. Legal shipments to other markets increased little in that period, although smuggling to Vietnam and then to Japan increased.
On Tuesday, besides trying to free the global flow of rare earth metals, the United States and its allies demanded that China dismantle export restrictions on two other strategic minerals mined mainly in China: tungsten and molybdenum, which are used to strengthen steel.
Mr. Obama also signed a law meant to make it easier for companies and unions to file antisubsidy cases against imports from China and other countries designated by the United States as having nonmarket economies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A rare earth mine in central China. Many manufacturers that require the metals have already moved their factories to China. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZHONG SHI/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); EXPORT CONTROLS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); MISC METAL MINING (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); WIND ENERGY (72%); COMPUTER MAKERS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (71%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (68%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (67%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%); PRICE INCREASES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) IOWA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%); CENTRAL CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (92%); HONG KONG (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%); AUSTRALIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



554 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Despite Calls for Alternatives, Another American Is Expected to Lead World Bank

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Once again, the next head of the World Bank will be an American.
The White House has not yet announced its nominee to lead the 67-year-old development institution, whose president, Robert B. Zoellick, will step down when his term is over at the end of June. But administration officials said this week that they would pick an American by the March 23 deadline for nominees.
That stance has discouraged increasingly powerful emerging-market countries, like Brazil and China, from proposing a strong alternative, observers said. 
Since Europe will almost certainly support whomever Washington picks -- as the United States backed the candidacy of the former French finance minister Christine Lagarde to head the International Monetary Fund last year -- the result is that the American is a lock, they said.
''The United States continues to be very, very powerful despite what you read in the newspapers,'' said Uri Dadush, the director of the international economics program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. ''Unless they decide they are ready for a change, it is going to be very difficult to make a transition.''
In recent years, cash-rich developing nations have won more say on the international scene -- in no small part because of the Obama administration's encouragement.
Major global economic negotiations happen at the Group of 20 meetings, rather than the Group of 8 meetings, for instance. And it is developing countries that are expected to provide the bulk of additional financing to the International Monetary Fund to help stamp out the European debt crisis.
Moreover, the Group of 20 countries and the World Bank itself have called in recent years for a fairer, more transparent selection process for the top posts at the World Bank and its sister institution, the I.M.F. For the past seven decades, an informal agreement has assured that a European leads the International Monetary Fund and an American the World Bank.
But officials in the Group of 20, speaking on the condition of anonymity to avoid disturbing diplomatic relations, said that American officials informed them recently of their intention to retain control of the bank.
That has discouraged major emerging-markets countries -- like China, Brazil, India, Russia and South Africa -- from coming together to offer an alternative.
A few expressed outright annoyance at the American position. But none indicated a willingness to fight Washington this go-around.
One American -- Jeffrey Sachs, the director of the Earth Institute at Columbia and a development expert -- has put himself forward for the position and won the endorsement of countries including Kenya and Malaysia. But he is not under consideration by the White House, according to people familiar with the World Bank process who asked not to be identified because the decision is pending.
''Eleven out of 11 World Bank presidents have been either politicians or bankers,'' Mr. Sachs said in an interview. ''But it's not a bank. It's not a political institution. It's a development institution. Misunderstanding that, we've unfortunately gotten a lot of drift, a lack of focus and strategic insight into what to do. That's why I put my name forward.''
The search for American candidates yielded a long list of experts in economics, international affairs and management that has been whittled down by Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary; Thomas E. Donilon, the national security adviser; and Jacob J. Lew, the White House chief of staff. The decision is now pending with President Obama, according to the sources.
There has been considerable speculation that the White House's nominee will have experience working abroad or have foreign roots to help ensure global support -- even if some countries, as expected, raise questions about continued American control of the institution.
Two of the most-rumored candidates, Hillary Rodham Clinton, the secretary of state, and Mr. Geithner himself, have been firmly ruled out, the sources said.
Possible contenders include Susan E. Rice, the United States ambassador to the United Nations and a former State Department official with experience working with African countries; Indra K. Nooyi, the India-born chief executive of PepsiCo who is an American citizen; and Lawrence H. Summers, the former Treasury secretary and Obama economic adviser, the sources said.
Research groups and development groups are still pushing for the White House to consider non-American candidates and for the selection process to be merit-based, transparent and fair.
The Center for Global Development, a Washington-based research institution, for instance, has recommended Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, the Nigerian finance minister, and Nandan Nilekani, a founder of the large Indian technology firm Infosys.
''The best person for the job might amazingly be a non-American and non-European,'' said Mr. Dadush of the Carnegie Endowment, ''difficult as it is for some people to believe that.''
The World Bank hopes to pick its new president by the joint World Bank and I.M.F. meetings in late April.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); ENDOWMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); EURO CRISIS (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); FOUNDATIONS (69%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (67%); DEBT CRISIS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (57%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (72%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); FRANCE (79%); KENYA (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



555 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: Nasdaq Finishes Above 3,000, Its Best Since Dot-Com Bubble

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Stocks rose to new heights on Tuesday, in part on stronger retail sales data, pushing the broad market to levels last seen in June 2008 and the Nasdaq composite index to close above 3,000 for the first time since 2000.
On its joy ride heading into 2000, the technology-heavy Nasdaq reached its pinnacle of 5,048.62 on March 10 that year. Then the Internet bubble burst and the index plummeted nearly 40 percent, dropping below 3,000 that December in its worst annual loss.
Though it had been flirting with closing above 3,000 in recent weeks, it easily cleared the mark on Tuesday, closing up 56.22 points, or 1.88 percent, at 3,039.88. The index is now up nearly 17 percent this year, more than the other two main Wall Street gauges.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has risen 11 percent so far this year, ending Tuesday up 24.86 points, or 1.81 percent, at 1,395.95. The Dow Jones industrial average is almost 8 percent higher for the year, closing on Tuesday up 217.97 points, or 1.68 percent, at 13,177.68. Both of those indexes this year have already returned to the levels where they were trading not long before the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September 2008 set off a global financial crisis. 
Stocks were strong all day after healthy retail sales were reported in the morning and the Federal Reserve offered a slightly more upbeat assessment of the economy. The increase accelerated after JPMorgan Chase said late in the day that it was raising its dividend and authorizing a stock buyback as news emerged that after the markets closed, the Federal Reserve would release its latest round of ''stress tests'' of the nation's major banks.
Interest rates were higher. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 26/32, to 98 28/32, and the yield rose to 2.13 percent from 2.04 percent late Monday.
Equity gains this year have been part of a general trend of solid corporate balance sheets and improving economic data. On Tuesday, the Commerce Department reported that retail sales in February were their strongest since September, rising 1.1 percent. The report included upward revisions from previous months, and it added to a positive picture of the economic recovery as the jobs market and consumer confidence improve.
''We have had a good series of economic data come out the past few months,'' said Jason D. Pride, the director of investment strategy for Glenmede. Noting the the European debt crisis, he said, ''We don't think we are completely out of the woods, but at least those risk-of-downside items have been greatly diminished.''
There could be some tests to the United States economy and consumers from higher gasoline prices and slowing global economy, said Jim Baird, the chief investment strategist for Plante Moran Financial Advisors, in a research statement.
The S.& P.'s close on Tuesday was its highest since June 5, 2008, when it hit 1,404.05. Consumer discretionary stocks were up the most since then, or 35 percent, while financials did the worst, down 39 percent.
The composition of the Nasdaq has changed over the years; many of the stocks from early 2000 no longer even listed. In the dot-com bubble, many companies did not have earnings, or even business models, to back up their lofty stock market valuations.
Now, a handful of the 2,500 stocks in the index in particular have produced strong performances lately, like Apple. Apple, Microsoft, Oracle and Cisco account for 20 percent of the weight of the index.
''The technology sector is as popular as ever, maybe not as crazy as it was back in the dot-com 1998-2000 time frame, but technology firms are pretty popular this time around,'' said Paul Larson, chief equities strategist for Morningstar. ''They also had strong underlying fundamentals to back up these prices.''
In 2000, Mr. Larson said, ''a lot of the blue-chip names were trading at 35 to 40 times their earnings. They did not have earnings to back up their lofty prices, at least not enough earnings to justify, or growth to justify, a 40 times multiple on the stock. But today the earnings have grown significantly.''
Now, he said, Apple, Microsoft, Cisco and Oracle are trading in the low teens or single-digit multiples of earnings. The price/earnings ratio for the Nasdaq index over all is 24, compared with the S.& P.'s 14, while Nasdaq's in 2000 was a sky-high 155.
The recent ascent of technology stocks is restrained compared with the dot-com boom. And the shares of social networking and media companies like Yelp and Groupon have slipped after their initial public offerings. But there are some echoes of the unqualified optimism of the Internet bubble of more than a decade ago -- in the surging salaries for engineers, the accommodating accounting applied to some young companies, and the ease with which start-ups, unproved and unprofitable, can attract investment money.
Some analysts are approaching the new 3,000 level with caution, saying it might be more representative of a few companies than a trend that is happening for the collective group.
The index is weighted by capitalization, which means about 500 technology stocks that trade on the Nasdaq exchange account for more than 48 percent of the index. Apple in particular continues to have an outsize influence on the overall Nasdaq. Its share price was just over $31 in March 2000, and it subsequently fell below $7. It is now over $500, closing up nearly 3 percent to $568.10.
About 315 consumer services stocks account for about 18 percent and about 406 health care stocks for 12 percent. In a survey of stocks with market capitalizations of more than $1 billion at the end of February, Vivus Inc., a biopharmaceutical company, and Sears Holdings, the retailer, had gained more than 100 percent from the beginning of the year, making them among the top five gainers on the Nasdaq. Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, also a biopharmaceutical company, also was up nearly 100 percent.
Mark Sue, a communications technology analyst with RBC Capital Markets, said the rise of the index was not broad-based, and market share shifted from one company at the expense of others.
Apple gained market share from Research in Motion, Nokia and Motorola, for example. Cisco gained share from Nortel but in turn lost some share to Juniper Networks, which lost share to smaller players, Mr. Sue said. Ericsson gained share from smaller players only to cede margins to Chinese vendors. ''So few things are constant in tech,'' he added.
The Nasdaq 100, which represents the largest market capitalization companies, closed 2.7 percent higher in 2011 over 2010, while the overall index finished 2011 down 1.8 percent, Mr. Sue noted. So the gain so far this year, ''while encouraging, needs some sustainability to show that the environment is better and technology innovation is accelerating,'' he said.
The positive sentiment was felt across the Asia-Pacific region, too, on Wednesday, sending the Nikkei 225 up 2.1 percent by late morning in Tokyo. The benchmark indexes in Hong Kong, Singapore and Australia were 1 percent higher in morning trading, while the markets in Taiwan and South Korea gained 1.3 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX (Source: Bloomberg) (B1)
The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 10-Year Treasury Notes: High yield in monthly refunding auction. (Source: Treasury Department) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); DIVIDENDS (74%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); CORPORATE DEBT (73%); DEBT CRISIS (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); DEBT NOTES (67%); EURO CRISIS (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



556 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Homework Trumps Gut Instinct in Retail Brokering

BYLINE: By JULIE SATOW

 BODY:
When Donald G. Fisher, the founder of the Gap clothing chain, began expanding in Manhattan in the 1990s, ''he would stand in front of a space, see how many people walked by, and say, 'Hey, this looks like a good spot,' '' said Robert K. Futterman, the founder of the retail brokerage RKF, who represented the company in some leases.
The retail leasing business has come a long way since then. Companies like the Gap pore over maps detailing subway access and foot traffic, as well as wealth profiles of nearby residents and sales figures for neighboring stores before agreeing to move to a new location.
And rather than the company founder visiting a site, it is more common for real estate consultants and other executives to make these decisions. It is all part of the shift in retail real estate over the last decade away from a tight-knit group of brokers, tenants and local landlords toward large brokerage firms advising multinational retail chains and institutional landlords. 
''Gut instinct is no longer sufficient,'' said Jeffrey D. Roseman, an executive vice president and a principal at Newmark Knight Frank who has been in the business since 1986. ''You need to have done your homework and provide your clients with data showing why the space is right for them.''
In New York, the proliferation of national and global chain stores and fashion brands in places like Times Square and SoHo has raised the stakes. Retail rents in Manhattan are some of the most expensive in the country, regularly topping $1,500 a square foot. In the costliest corridor, along Fifth Avenue between 49th and 59th Street, rents averaged $2,550 a square foot in the fourth quarter of 2011 -- a 64 percent increase from the market downturn two years ago, according to CBRE.
There are some 500 retail brokers in the city, estimates Joanne Podell, an executive vice president of Cushman & Wakefield, though there are no official numbers. Those in the industry say the ranks have been growing, in part because as retail rents rise, so does the potential for large commissions. Mr. Futterman, for example, said that more than 10 brokers at his company earned at least $2 million last year.
Retail brokerage came into its own as a real estate specialty when Garrick-Aug Associates, one of the first retail-only firms, opened its doors in 1975. Many of today's most established brokers came from its ranks, including Mr. Futterman. In the 1980s, other firms expanded their retail business, including CBRE and Cushman & Wakefield. The industry was still relatively specialized, however, and ''seen as second class by many brokers'' compared with the more glamorous, and established, business of commercial office leasing, Mr. Roseman said.
''It used to be that New York was small, with retail almost exclusively focused on Greenwich Village, Midtown and the Upper East Side,'' said Benjamin Fox, an executive vice president of retail leasing at Massey Knakal Realty Services. Mr. Fox, another alumnus of Garrick-Aug (the firm closed in 2007), joined Massey Knakal last year from Winick Realty Group to start its retail team. ''Every building had its own leasing agent who would also do the retail, and leases were just a four- or five-page document you would sign in a lawyer's office.''
In the last decade, the field has become far more competitive and professionalized, industry insiders said. In some cases, it has been a hard transition. ''There are so many retail brokers now, it is increasingly hard to find opportunities and make deals,'' Mr. Fox said. ''After 30 years, my earning chart is very up and down; it is a tough way to live and it isn't for everybody.''
As the retail sector has matured and grown more competitive, it has also become an increasingly significant part of commercial real estate as the rents and value of the space have risen. Retail now ''is a critical piece of the puzzle because it directly plays into the branding and prestige of an office building,'' said Matthew Van Buren, the president of CBRE for the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut region.
The advent of digital technology has turned retail deals into a game of numbers. Ms. Podell said she recently reviewed one client's portfolio of stores, and using customer ZIP codes, sales figures, store size and other particulars, ''we built a model that showed us the ideal store size, where the majority of their customers were coming from, the importance of subway access.''
But while the retail industry has become more competitive and sophisticated, there is still very little transparency in terms of asking rents, availability and lease expirations. Unlike the office space market, where data companies like CoStar track much of the information, retail data is mostly compiled by the brokerage firms themselves and remains largely proprietary and hidden.
One company trying to make the process of finding and advertising retail spaces more efficient is RetailMLS.com, which plans an online database of listings. The company's Web site is set to go live in May in test form to a closed network of brokerage firms, said Benjamin M. Zises, the founder and chief executive.
At first, the service will be available only to brokers, but may eventually be opened to the public, said Mr. Zises, who was a retail broker at Mogull Realty.
With such little transparency, retail brokers often find themselves playing the role of private detective to reach landlords. In New York, many stores are within residential co-op buildings that are run by a board of residents, or are owned by small landlords who can be difficult to find.
''Typically, good retail areas have very low vacancy rates,'' said Amira Yunis, an executive vice president of CBRE, ''and finding out who owns which buildings, who are the decision makers and when leases come due can be very hard to figure out.'' She said that roughly 35 percent of her deals were for spaces that were not officially on the market, and that she spent significant portions of her days forming relationships with landlords and retailers to find hidden deals.
The competition among brokerages to retain or recruit top producers can be tough. Ms. Yunis recently jumped to CBRE after spending much of her career at Newmark Knight Frank. Though she sees herself as a relative newcomer to the industry after 12 years representing retailers, she has closed a number of prominent deals, including in 2006 bringing the first Trader Joe's grocery to New York City with a lease on 14th Street.
Ms. Yunis said brokers who were women offered ''a unique perspective.'' ''I love to shop, I like architecture and design, so this gives me an edge,'' she said.
Scott D. Galin, a principal of the Handler Real Estate Organization, said retail brokers played a more critical role than ever, with the economic recovery still fragile. Mr. Galin, who spent 30 years as a retailer before joining Handler, a landlord and brokerage firm, said retailers ''are much more cautious now, reducing their footprints and being more selective in opening new stores.''
Because New York has the added risk for retailers of high rents, he said, ''local knowledge is critical. I don't care how big your chain store is, if you live 1,000 miles away you aren't going to know the eccentricities of different areas, like why one corner is better than another corner. Only a broker can tell you that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Benjamin Fox, of Massey Knakal Realty Services, says retail brokering has gotten complex and competitive. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Amira Yunis, a broker for CBRE, spends time seeking hidden deals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); PROPERTY LEASES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); SECURITIES BROKERS (76%); LEASING INDUSTRY (76%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%)

COMPANY: GAP INC (92%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (57%); BGC PARTNERS INC (55%)

TICKER: GPS (NYSE) (92%); BGCP (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (92%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (92%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (57%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



557 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: His District Likely to Be Cut, Congressman Eyes Senate

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - Representative Bob Turner, a Republican who unexpectedly won a House seat in a closely watched special election last year, has decided to run for the United States Senate in New York, seeking to oust Kirsten E. Gillibrand, a Democrat.
Mr. Turner made his decision after it became clear that his district, which includes portions of Queens and Brooklyn, was one of two that would most likely be eliminated this year in New York State as part of the redistricting process. The state must cut its Congressional delegation to 27, from 29, to reflect slow population growth identified in the 2010 census. 
In recent days, Mr. Turner had received phone calls from an array of Republican Party officials, donors and activists who had urged him to run for the party's nomination for the Senate. He decided early Tuesday to challenge Ms. Gillibrand, after a federal magistrate judge overseeing the Congressional redistricting released a map shortly before midnight on Monday eliminating his district, according to two Republicans close to him.
Mr. Turner became a favorite in Republican circles after scoring an upset victory in September in a heavily Democratic Congressional district formerly represented by Anthony D. Weiner, a Democrat who resigned over a scandal involving his lewd online behavior.
In a statement explaining his decision, Mr. Turner, a former television executive, said he was committed to finishing the job that he started in Congress.
''I ran for the House six months ago as a private citizen fed up with what is happening in Washington,'' he said. ''I could not sit and watch career politicians sink my nation deeper into economic crisis.
''Brooklyn and Queens voters, of all political parties, graciously responded by sending me to Congress. It now appears that their district has been eliminated. There is serious work to be done to get this economy back on track, and I will not walk away from that work now.''
Mr. Turner's most immediate challenge will be raising enough money to run statewide. By some estimates, he will need a minimum of $10 million to compete against Ms. Gillibrand, a formidable fund-raiser.
Ms. Gillibrand's campaign quickly responded to the news of his candidacy. Her spokesman, Glen Caplin, noted that Mr. Turner once produced a cable show for Rush Limbaugh, the radio host recently embroiled in a controversy over slurs aimed at a female college student.
Mr. Caplin also said that Mr. Turner had voted with House Republicans ''to help protect tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires, raise Medicare premiums for seniors and block efforts to put middle-class families back to work.''
Mr. Turner enters a field of relatively unknown candidates vying for the Republican nomination to challenge Ms. Gillibrand, who is in her first term. The other Republicans are Joe Carvin, the Republican supervisor of the town of Rye, in Westchester County; Wendy Long, a Manhattan lawyer who was legal counsel to the Judicial Confirmation Network, a conservative organization; and George Maragos, the Nassau County comptroller.
But until Mr. Turner entered the race, no major Republican candidate had emerged for party leaders to rally behind. For months Republican leaders had been trying to identify a stronger opponent to take on Ms. Gillibrand, arguing that she could be vulnerable.
Several top Republicans say they believe that Mr. Turner is a potentially strong candidate in New York, a heavily Democratic state where Republicans have not won a statewide race since George E. Pataki was elected to a third term as governor in 2002.
In particular, the Republicans noted that Mr. Turner managed to win election to Congress despite the fact that Democrats had spent hundreds of thousands of dollars against him and mobilized legions of supporters. He also successfully courted some Democratic voters who were dismayed with the state of the economy under President Obama or who objected to the president's handling of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Ms. Gillibrand, a former House member from upstate New York, has been taking nothing for granted. She has been working aggressively to establish a statewide identity since 2009, when Gov. David A. Paterson appointed her to the Senate seat vacated by Hillary Rodham Clinton, who left to become secretary of state. In 2010, Ms. Gillibrand won election to the Senate, allowing her to complete the unexpired portion of Ms. Clinton's term.
As Ms. Gillibrand prepares to run for a full six-year term this year, she appears to be in a relatively strong position. The senator had $8.1 million in her campaign treasury as of the end of 2011, according to the most recent financial disclosure statements. And in a survey released this month by the Siena Research Institute, 54 percent of registered state voters said they had a favorable opinion of Ms. Gillibrand, and 58 percent said they were prepared to re-elect her.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Bob Turner, a Republican elected to the House last year, wants to unseat Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, Democrat of New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); REDISTRICTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MAGISTRATES (77%); CENSUS (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); FUNDRAISING (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); JUDGES (73%); MEDICARE (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); SCANDALS (66%); LAWYERS (66%); FAMILY (65%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (50%)

PERSON: BOB TURNER (91%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (89%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



558 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Capitalism, Version 2012

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
David Rothkopf, the chief executive and editor-at-large of Foreign Policy magazine, has a smart new book out, entitled ''Power, Inc.,'' about the epic rivalry between big business and government that captures, in many ways, what the 2012 election should be about -- and it's not ''contraception,'' although the word does begin with a ''C.'' It's the future of ''capitalism'' and whether it will be shaped in America or somewhere else.
Rothkopf argues that while for much of the 20th century the great struggle on the world stage was between capitalism and communism, which capitalism won, the great struggle in the 21st century will be about which version of capitalism will win, which one will prove the most effective at generating growth and become the most emulated. 
''Will it be Beijing's capitalism with Chinese characteristics?'' asks Rothkopf. ''Will it be the democratic development capitalism of India and Brazil? Will it be entrepreneurial small-state capitalism of Singapore and Israel? Will it be European safety-net capitalism? Or will it be American capitalism?'' It is an intriguing question, which raises another: What is American capitalism today, and what will enable it to thrive in the 21st century?
Rothkopf's view, which I share, is that the thing others have most admired and tried to emulate about American capitalism is precisely what we've been ignoring: America's success for over 200 years was largely due to its healthy, balanced public-private partnership -- where government provided the institutions, rules, safety nets, education, research and infrastructure to empower the private sector to innovate, invest and take the risks that promote growth and jobs.
When the private sector overwhelms the public, you get the 2008 subprime crisis. When the public overwhelms the private, you get choking regulations. You need a balance, which is why we have to get past this cartoonish ''argument that the choice is either all government or all the market,'' argues Rothkopf. The lesson of history, he adds, is that capitalism thrives best when you have this balance, and ''when you lose the balance, you get in trouble.''
For that reason, the ideal 2012 election would be one that offered the public competing conservative and liberal versions of the key grand bargains, the key balances, that America needs to forge to adapt its capitalism to this century.
The first is a grand bargain to fix our long-term structural deficit by phasing in $1 in tax increases, via tax reform, for every $3 to $4 in cuts to entitlements and defense over the next decade. If the Republican Party continues to take the view that there must be no tax increases, we're stuck. Capitalism can't work without safety nets or fiscal prudence, and we need both in a sustainable balance.
As part of this, we will need an intergenerational grand bargain so we don't end up in an intergenerational civil war. We need a proper balance between government spending on nursing homes and nursery schools -- on the last six months of life and the first six months of life.
Another grand bargain we need is between the environmental community and the oil and gas industry over how to do two things at once: safely exploit America's newfound riches in natural gas, while simultaneously building a bridge to a low-carbon energy economy, with greater emphasis on energy efficiency.
Another grand bargain we need is on infrastructure. We have more than a $2 trillion deficit in bridges, roads, airports, ports and bandwidth, and the government doesn't have the money to make it up. We need a bargain that enables the government to both enlist and partner with the private sector to unleash private investments in infrastructure that will serve the public and offer investors appropriate returns.
Within both education and health care, we need grand bargains that better allocate resources between remediation and prevention. In both health and education, we spend more than anyone else in the world -- without better outcomes. We waste too much money treating people for preventable diseases and reteaching students in college what they should have learned in high school. Modern capitalism requires skilled workers and workers with portable health care that allows them to move for any job.
We also need a grand bargain between employers, employees and government -- a la Germany -- where government provides the incentives for employers to hire, train and retrain labor.
We can't have any of these bargains, though, without a more informed public debate. The ''big thing that's missing'' in U.S. politics today, Bill Gates said to me in a recent interview, ''is this technocratic understanding of the facts and where things are working and where they're not working,'' so the debate can be driven by data, not ideology.
Capitalism and political systems -- like companies -- must constantly evolve to stay vital. People are watching how we evolve and whether our version of democratic capitalism can continue to thrive. A lot is at stake here. But if ''we continue to treat politics as a reality show played for cheap theatrics,'' argues Rothkopf, ''we increase the likelihood that the next chapter in the ongoing story of capitalism is going to be written somewhere else.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); TAX LAW (85%); LIBERALISM (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (62%); TAX REFORM (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (56%) UNITED STATES (95%); BRAZIL (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



559 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Ahead Strongly After Retail Data

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks on Wall Street traded strongly higher Tuesday after the Commerce Department reported better-than-expected retail sales in the United States last month despite rising gas prices. 
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 1.4 percent in late trading. The Dow Jones industrial average added 1.3 percent and the Nasdaq composite index rose 1.5 percent to trade firmly above the 3,000-point level.
''Just maybe a little bit of a relief with some of that uncertainty out of the way and the retail sales, highest in five months, is helping. It is all good news,'' said Terry Morris, senior vice president and senior equity manager for National Penn Investors Trust in Reading, Pa.
The Federal Reserve said after its policy meeting that the economy was indeed improving, but that it would continue its low-interest campaign to prod growth. The statement served to strengthen stock gains late in the afternoon.
Mr. Morris cautioned that the trend of low market volume was unsettling, reflecting a lack of commitment from investors. Monday's volume of 5.24 billion shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange, NYSE Amex and Nasdaq represented the lowest of the year.
Investor sentiment about economic prospects in Europe was heightened after euro zone finance ministers gave final approval to a second bailout for Greece and data in Germany showed analyst and investor sentiment rose significantly more than expected in March.
The FTSE 100 index of British shares closed up 1.1 percent, while the CAC 40 index of French stocks gained 1.7 percent. The DAX in Germany rose 1.4 percent.
Pfizer, the world's largest drugmaker, scrapped a deal to sell insulin products made by Biocon, leaving India's biggest biotech company without a partner to sell the drugs in key global markets such as the United States. Pfizer edged up 0.3 percent.
Yahoo sued Facebook over 10 patents that include methods and systems for advertising on the Web, opening a legal battle among big technology companies in social media. Yahoo gained 0.8 percent.
Great Wolf Resorts jumped 26 percent after the private equity firm Apollo Global Management said its affiliate will buy the operator of indoor water park resorts for about $703 million, including debt.
Midas jumped 27.4 percent after the auto repair chain said it would be taken private by TBC for $173 million in cash.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); GOING PRIVATE (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); TRENDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); BAILOUTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PRIVATE EQUITY (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EURO ZONE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); APPROVALS (73%); EURO CRISIS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (68%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (68%); SOCIAL MEDIA (67%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%); AUTOMOTIVE EXHAUST REPAIR SHOPS (64%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (64%); PATENTS (61%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (60%); WATER PARKS (60%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (60%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: APOLLO ADVISORS LP (63%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); NYSE MKT LLC (55%); FACEBOOK INC (53%); BIOCON LTD (53%); PFIZER INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%); BIOCON (NSE) (53%); PFZ (LSE) (53%); PFEB (BRU) (53%); PFE (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (63%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (63%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (63%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (63%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: READING, PA, USA (71%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (86%); INDIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%); GREECE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



560 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: The Fed Stays the Course

 BODY:
The Federal Reserveacknowledged on Tuesday that it is not certain which way the economy is going. It saw signs of improvement, but its outlook is cautious. It plans to continue near-zero interest rates through 2014 and bond purchases through June to keep borrowing costs low. The stock market responded enthusiastically. Without more help -- from Congress, the White House and the Fed -- it is hard to see how the fledgling recovery will take off. 
While the jobless rate has declined swiftly, from 9.1 percent last summer to 8.3 percent in February, the slow pace of economic growth suggests those job gains are not sustainable. Similarly, the strong retail sales report for February largely reflects higher spending for gasoline, suggesting that consumers are more stressed than free-spending.
Here are some of the pressure points to watch:
JOBS VS. GOOD JOBS At least 40 percent of the new private sector jobs fall into low-paying categories. Health care has contributed 15 percent of job growth in the private sector since February 2010, but many of those jobs were in home health care and nursing homes. Leisure and hospitality contributed 16 percent of new private sector jobs, but most were in bars and restaurants. Ditto business trades and professional services, where a large chunk of growth has been in retail sales and temporary jobs.
Over the last two years, governments at the federal, state and local levels have lost nearly 500,000 generally better-paying and more secure jobs -- teachers, librarians, road workers. Worse, even with recent private-sector job growth, labor supply still far outstrips demand, depressing wages -- with no turnaround in sight. Currently, the ratio of job seekers to job openings is nearly 4 to 1. In a healthy market, the ratio is closer to 1 to 1.
EXPORTS FALTER Hope for a trade-led recovery has also taken a hit, with the United States trade deficit surging in January to its widest imbalance in more than three years. Part of the reason is rising oil prices. Another reason is a fall in exports to Europe's faltering market. The depth of the European downturn is not yet clear, nor is the extent to which weakness in Europe will weaken China and other nations that also rely on exports, with knock-on effects for U.S. growth. What is known is that a widening trade deficit translates into slower economic growth.
WASHINGTON'S FOLLIESFederal budget cuts have already shaved about half-a-percentage point from recent growth; calls by some House Republicans to make even deeper cuts than those agreed to in last year's budget agreement would slow growth even further. The Fed chairman, Ben Bernanke, deserves credit for trying to talk sense to lawmakers, telling them repeatedly that near-term policies to support jobs, housing and the broader economy should be coupled with long-term plans to control the budget deficit. The message, unfortunately, has not gotten through. The Fed, so far, has correctly resisted calls from its hawkish members to tighten its policies. Barring a dramatic, and unlikely, upsurge in the economy, it must be prepared to loosen policy further.
The Fed should not be the only one doing battle for the economy, but given lawmakers' inability to agree with President Obama, or each other, on even basic stimulative policies, its economic leadership is essential.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (87%); EXPORT PRICES (85%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); SALES FIGURES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); RESTAURANTS (74%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (72%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (72%); RETAIL SALES (69%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); NURSING HOMES (67%); BUDGET CUTS (63%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



561 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Gain the Most in 5 Months

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Retail sales posted their largest gain in five months in February, with Americans feeling confident enough to buy more cars and other goods even as they paid more for gasoline. 
In the latest sign of improvement in the American economy's prolonged recovery from the 2007-9 recession, sales rose 1.1 percent last month, the Commerce Department said on Tuesday, after a 0.6 percent increase in January.
The sales gains were broad-based and numbers for previous months were revised higher, suggesting rising employment was cushioning consumers from a steep increase in gasoline prices.
''It signals that the improving economic fundamentals, particularly strong employment growth, are being translated into higher spending activity,'' said Millan Mulraine, senior macro strategist at TD Securities in New York.
He added: ''This building momentum is especially encouraging for the recovery as it suggests that the self-reinforcing positive dynamics between jobs growth and spending activity could foster a more robust economic recovery in the coming months.''
With sales for December and January revised higher, the report suggested consumer spending had not been as weak as previously thought.
Consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of domestic economic activity, had been reported as being flat in the three months through January, when adjusted for inflation.
The report spurred some economists, including those at Goldman Sachs, to raise their forecasts for first-quarter gross domestic product. Goldman Sachs now expects G.D.P. to increase at a 2.0 percent annual rate, instead of 1.8 percent.
Economists also expect fourth-quarter G.D.P. growth to be revised up to as high as a 3.5 percent pace from 3.0 percent when the final reading is released later this month.
Sales last month were buoyed by a 1.6 percent rise in sales of motor vehicles, reflecting pent-up demand and growing confidence in the economy as job creation accelerated.
Excluding autos, retail sales advanced 0.9 percent, building on January's upwardly revised 1.1 percent gain.
A separate report from the Commerce Department showed auto dealers raced to rebuild stocks in January to meet the growing demand. Motor vehicle inventories increased in January at their quickest pace since July 2010, giving a lift to overall business inventories.
Sales at gasoline stations surged 3.3 percent to a record $46.9 billion -- a figure that reflected higher gasoline costs. The percentage gain was the largest since March last year and followed a 1.9 percent increase in January.
Excluding autos and gasoline, sales rose 0.6 percent in February after increasing 1.0 percent the prior month. Gasoline accounted for 11.5 percent of retail sales in February.
''There is more underlying strength in the economy than the expected 2 percent first-quarter growth number would seem to indicate,'' said Gus Faucher, a senior economist at the PNC Financial Services Group in Pittsburgh.
So-called core retail sales, which exclude autos, gasoline and building materials, were up 0.5 percent after advancing 1.0 percent in January. Core sales correspond most closely with the consumer spending component of the government's gross domestic product report.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers in Manhattan. Core retail sales, which exclude autos, gasoline and building materials, were up 0.5 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID PAUL MORRIS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHARTS: Retail Sales: Total retail and food services sales, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department)
Inventory-Sales Ratio: Total month-end business inventories divided by total monthly business sales, seasonally adjusted.
 Business Inventories and Sales: Trillions of dollars, seasonally adjusted (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); GASOLINE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); RECESSION (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); GAS STATIONS (77%); JOB CREATION (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); NEW CAR DEALERS (62%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



562 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: A San Francisco District Begins to Reduce Blight

BYLINE: By BARBARA TANNENBAUM

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- The names of the city's storied neighborhoods roll off the tongue: Pacific Heights, North Beach, the Mission, Haight-Ashbury, the Castro.
Bayview, a historically African-American district long isolated between Candlestick Park and the former naval shipyard at Hunter's Point along the city's southeastern waterfront, is not among them.
The neighborhood's decline was hastened by the decommissioning of the shipyard in the 1970s. A succession of San Francisco mayors -- including Dianne Feinstein, Willie Brown and Gavin Newsom -- sought to revitalize the area. But for decades, the Bayview remained blighted with abandoned warehouses and railroad tracks to nowhere.
Now, the completion of a troubled $75 million mixed-use development at 5800 Third Street is evidence that the long-sought revitalization is finally taking root. 
Divided into two mixed-use buildings with public courtyards and shared common space, the 315,000-square-foot project's 137 condominium units are priced to appeal to first-time ''work force'' buyers. Holliday Development has sold the entire ground floor, as well as 50 of the 71 units in the first building. Sales of the second building's 66 units are scheduled to begin this month.
Prices range from $300,000 for a one-bedroom with a den to the high $400,000s for three-bedroom units.
''This development proves that economic diversity and market-rate housing can work in the Bayview,'' said Olson Lee, the city's director of housing. Mr. Lee also hailed the arrival of three food-related retailers -- Fresh & Easy, a grocery store owned by the British company Tesco, and branches of the popular area restaurants Limon Rotisserie and Brown Sugar Kitchen -- as an equally important milestone for the neighborhood.
''There hasn't been a new grocery store in the Bayview in 20 years,'' Mr. Lee said. ''It was a classic food desert,'' where struggling residents had to leave the neighborhood to find nutritious food and staples. ''These additions will change things,'' he said of the grocery and restaurants.
Change for the better has been predicted here for some time. In 2007, it was expected to arrive in the form of a new light-rail line along Third Street, with a stop right across the street from 5800 Third at Carroll Station. The extension linked the formerly isolated neighborhood with jobs in the city's financial district to the north and technology and biotech companies in South San Francisco and Silicon Valley.
That rail expansion, coinciding with a soaring housing market, ignited construction of condominiums in neighborhoods that wrap around the city's eastern shore. The building boom, anchored geographically by the AT&T Ballpark and the Mission Bay research center medical-school campus, transformed a light industrial zone into a series of up-and-coming residential neighborhoods.
The boom, however, stopped just short of the Bayview, with its lack of political clout and financial resources.
The project at 5800 Third Street was started in 2006 by James D. Noteware of Noteware Development, based in Houston. But the housing market collapsed in 2008, torpedoing Mr. Noteware's effort. ''He was hoping to sell two-bedroom units for $500,000,'' said Rick Holliday, the developer who is finishing the project. ''But in 2008, prices fell by at least 30 percent.''
Mr. Noteware did not return calls for comment.
Cost overruns and notice of a work stoppage by Thompson Pacific, Noteware's main contractor, rang alarm bells for the project's two financiers, Citi Community Capital, a division of Citicorp, and the equity partner, the Urban Investment Group of Goldman Sachs. Citi, holder of the construction loan, faced $11 million in liens from unpaid subcontractors, a general contractor who had walked off the job and a ground floor with nothing but steel rebar protruding from a concrete slab.
Hal Kuykendall, a co-director of Citi Community Capital, had a working relationship with Mr. Holliday, who specializes in affordable housing. Mr. Kuykendall and his partner, Steve Hall, had previously financed a similar ''infill conversion project'' of Mr. Holliday's in a similarly troubled neighborhood -- West Oakland's Pacific Cannery Lofts project. Mr. Hall asked the developer to evaluate the Bayview project in 2008, with an eye to starting it up again.
''We didn't want to leave behind an eyesore,'' said Mr. Kuykendall, whose division is responsible for 90 percent of Citigroup's affordable housing loans, a market segment that F.D.I.C.-insured banks are mandated to serve by the 1977 Community Reinvestment Act. ''We knew the Bayview was at a tipping point and that this project could be transformational.''
Mr. Holliday liked what he saw. ''After meeting the residents and getting a deeper sense of the place,'' he said, ''I saw the potential. The Third Street corridor had become the spine of an emerging neighborhood.''
He said the area would have an influx of more than a thousand residents once housing projects nurtured in the downturn by the city's Redevelopment Agency were finished.
Mr. Holliday hired a new contractor and landscape architect, modified design elements, untangled the liens and reassured neighborhood advocates and retail investors like Tesco. He also added $700,000 to Goldman Sachs's $20 million equity investment.
Mr. Holliday cultivated relationships with Tanya Holland, the owner of Brown Sugar Kitchen in West Oakland, and Martin and Antonio Castillo, brothers who own Limon Rotisserie, a popular Peruvian restaurant established in the city's Mission District. In an important step, Mr. Holliday convinced the restaurateurs to buy rather than lease their space and helped them navigate financing.
One longtime Bayview resident, Angelo King, the executive director of the nonprofit Neighborhood Jobs Initiative, recalls when the area near 5800 Third was little more than a long stretch of abandoned warehouses, a shuttered Coca-Cola factory and a methadone clinic. To Mr. King, these changes do not mean gentrification.
''We need to look at how many working-class African American families who do have income leave because they can't find a middle ground,'' he said. ''The housing stock here was in disrepair and dilapidated. Further away, it was overpriced.''
Mr. King, who moved into a three-bedroom unit at 5800 Third last September with his wife and two children, said: ''We need private development in a post-Redevelopment Agency world of government cutbacks. Here, they've built something we can take pride in.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 17, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption with an article on the Square Feet pages on Wednesday about efforts to revitalize the Bayview neighborhood in San Francisco misstated part of the name of the street where a $75 million development was recently completed. As the article correctly noted, it is at 5800 Third Street, not Third Avenue.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A $75 million, 137-unit condominium development is scheduled to open at 5800 Third Avenue in San Francisco. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (88%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (88%); RESTAURANTS (86%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SHIPBUILDING (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (74%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (74%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (74%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); NAVIES (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); RETAILERS (71%); FOOD SECURITY (70%); NUTRITION (62%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2012



563 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; ISHAQI JOURNAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Iraq's Tribal Chiefs Step Into the Breach With Swift Justice

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO; Yasir Ghazi and an employee of The New York Times contributed reporting.

 BODY:
ISHAQI, Iraq -- Fearful of a future as violent as the past, and exasperated by corrupt and incompetent politicians, the men who hold power here have seized the moment of American departure and national political chaos to administer their own form of justice: expelling suspected insurgents and their families from this town with the threat of death.
Where they go, the sheiks do not care. 
''Anywhere, but not Ishaqi,'' said Sheik Hussein Saydoon, a tribal leader in this Sunni-dominated backwater just off the highway between Baghdad and Tikrit, Saddam Hussein's hometown. ''If they came back, they would be killed immediately. This is what it's all about.''
Here and in other towns, in the interplay among tribal chiefs, elected officials and security forces, a new Iraq is taking shape. It may be buttressed by new ideas of democracy, but it is still very much dominated by the centuries-old customs and swagger of tribal leaders, quick to welcome outsiders with offers of sweet chai and platters of kebab and chicken but capable of swift acts of justice that can supersede those of any court.
Many of these sheiks once led teams of Awakening fighters, former Sunni militants whose decision to switch sides and fight alongside the Americans altered the course of the war and demonstrated the supremacy of tribes in effecting change in rural corners of Iraq. They said that the departure of the American military and the ensuing political crisis in Baghdad, which raised fears of a return to sectarian warfare, prompted them to take matters into their own hands.
''We were worried that things were going to get bad again because of what happened with the political parties and their disputes,'' Sheik Dalf Halob said. ''We will not allow the sectarian problems to return.''
More than 60 leaders of local tribes, including Shiite tribes in areas outside this town, recently signed an agreement that provides authority for tribal leaders in fighting terrorism. It prescribes harsh penalties that make no distinction between insurgents and those who help them, and forces even unwitting family members to make large payments to victims and to leave the area. Local officials and security force commanders signed on, ceding authority to the tribes.
''It's an honor oath that includes everyone,'' Sheik Halob said.
As it has in the rest of Iraq, security has greatly improved here in recent years, yet roadside bombings and other attacks still occur frequently.
''We didn't want others to be able to say that when the Americans left the chaos returned,'' said Taha Amed, Ishaqi's mayor.
Like many towns in Iraq, Ishaqi is at an uncertain moment after the American withdrawal, its anxiety reflected in the new tribal pact, which was signed Feb. 16 and has yet to be invoked. The town's once bountiful farmlands were turned into bloody battlefields, and its residents say they suffered mightily at the hands of insurgents and American soldiers alike.
Unanswered questions remain from a 2006 episode in which 10 people, including a 5-month-old boy, were killed in an American raid. The United States military steadfastly defended the actions of its soldiers, but a United Nations investigation -- the results of which were published last year by WikiLeaks -- cited evidence that the residents had been handcuffed and then killed. The Iraqi government has said it is still investigating.
Ishaqi also benefited from the softer side of America's war: 10 schools were built, a hospital constructed, water purification plants renovated and improved, roads and sidewalks paved (although some patches, one sheik noted, were subsequently damaged by American armored vehicles.)
On a recent afternoon, Rashid al-Shathir, the head of the local town council, drove from his office to his farm, bumping along a gravel road in his white sport utility vehicle. New homes are sprouting from farmland once irrigated by the nearby Tigris River but rendered barren by war and neglect.
When he was a child, said Mr. Shathir, who has farmed in the area since 1988, ''it was all green.''
He stopped at one of the American-built schoolhouses, separated from wheat fields and rows of plastic-covered tomato plants by a low concrete wall. Residents credit the Americans with helping to end overcrowding in the school system. In a classroom, sixth graders -- boys on one side, girls on the other -- were learning English through the age-old exercise of imagining their futures.
One wanted to become a pilot, another a journalist. All were bundled in overcoats or sweaters to ward off the late-winter chill. The town receives only four hours of electricity each day, and the school has no generator.
Up the road at his farm, Mr. Shathir plucked three oranges from a tree and handed them to a visitor.
''The best thing is to pick the fruit with your own hand,'' he said.
There were times, he said, between 2006 and 2008 when his farm was in a no man's land, and many local officials say it is still too dangerous to visit. ''All the fighting was here,'' he said, waving his hands. ''They were hiding among the trees.''
Farming has fallen on hard times. Harvests are down, he said, and prices have been depressed by fruits and vegetables imported from Syria and Iran. The cost of fuel and fertilizer has increased. Local farmers recall a time when this area benefited from subsidies and other largess doled out by the Hussein government.
Business, Mr. Shathir said, is still below prewar levels. Economic malaise and unemployment are pervasive, conditions that officials worry could lead young men back to militancy. As part of the security pact with the tribes, the local government vowed to take more steps to create jobs.
''If someone is hungry, he might do anything,'' Mr. Shathir said.
Ishaqi's story illuminates something that has always been true of Iraq, whether it was perched atop the Arab world under the Abbasid caliphate, under the thumb of British or Ottoman colonialists, ruled by a dictator or occupied by the Americans. Throughout it all, tribal identity and traditions have reigned at a local level.
''There have been many governments here that passed through history, and they haven't done anything for us,'' Sheik Ali Rahim said.
Echoing the common disenchantment with the national leaders who returned to Iraq from exile, Sheik Rahim said, ''The occupation came, and they invaded Iraq, and they brought all these politicians from Iran and everything changed.
''But we didn't change. We had our farms and kept doing what we always have.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tribal leaders gathered last week in Ishaqi, Iraq, to discuss security and the budget. As a new Iraq takes shape, the centuries-old customs and swagger of the tribal chiefs are keeping their hold.
 High school students at one of 10 schools in Ishaqi constructed by the United States. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADAM FERGUSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); POLITICS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); TERRORISM (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); MAYORS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



564 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: In Otherwise Dour Report From Fed, the Tiniest Touch of Optimism

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve on Tuesday offered a slightly more upbeat account of the American economy, but added that it planned to continue its efforts to improve growth.
The Fed cited the improving job market and increased spending by households and businesses as reasons for increased optimism in a statement after the regularly scheduled meeting of its policy-making committee.
But the statement remained dour in its overall tone, predicting ''moderate economic growth,'' and just a gradual decline in unemployment, cold comfort for more than 23 million Americans still unable to find full-time work. 
Among the persistent causes: The housing market remains deeply depressed, Europe is still unstable and rising oil prices threaten to crimp other spending -- the same combination that derailed growth last year.
The Fed said that rising oil prices also would increase the rate of inflation, but it predicted the effect would be temporary, and that the rate of increases in prices and wages subsequently would settle ''at or below'' its desired annual rate of 2 percent.
The language in Tuesday's statement was incrementally more positive than the statement released after the last meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee in January, but the Fed's outlook remained considerably more subdued than that of other forecasters, who have embraced signs of stronger growth.
The committee ''is clearly shifting its stance away from blanket gloom to something more realistic, but they have a long way to go,'' said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States. economist at High Frequency Economics, a forecasting firm in Valhalla, N.Y.
But Fed officials see ample reasons for their continuing concern.
The Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, testified before Congress two weeks ago that a recent surge in job creation was outpacing broader indicators, like consumption of goods and services, and therefore was likely to slow down.
The central bank also has overestimated the strength of the recovery several times in recent years. Three years ago this week, Mr. Bernanke told the television program ''60 Minutes'' that he saw ''green shoots'' of nascent recovery.
Last spring Fed officials once again saw green shoots -- although they had learned at least one valuable lesson, and were no longer using the term -- and they began to talk about reducing the central bank's support for the economy.
This time, Fed officials seem to be waiting until they are sure. ''The Fed can hardly be accused of acting as a cheerleader for the recovery,'' Paul Ashworth, chief United States economist at Capital Economics in Toronto, wrote in a note to clients Tuesday.
While the policy-making committee did not announce new policies Tuesday, it said that it planned to continue its campaigns to help growth. The Fed has held short-term interest rates near zero since the end of 2008, and the statement affirmed its plan to maintain that effort until late 2014, at least.
The Fed also continues to stockpile Treasury securities in an effort to further reduce borrowing costs for businesses and consumers. The Fed holds about $2.5 trillion in Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities, and it is shifting $400 billion into securities with longer terms, to increase the impact on long-term rates. It does not plan to begin winding down the portfolio before 2015.
Jeffrey M. Lacker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, cast the sole dissenting vote on the 10-member committee. Mr. Lacker said after a similar dissent in January that he believed the Fed would need to raise short-term interest rates sooner than late 2014 to check a rise in inflation.
The Fed's efforts are providing a modest but measurable boost to the economy, according to a number of independent studies. That has led some Fed officials to call for a fourth round of purchases. Under one such proposal, the Fed would buy mortgage securities to help the housing market.
But Mr. Bernanke, who exercises disproportionate influence over the committee's decisions, has said he would support new purchases only if the economic outlook deteriorated, and provided that inflation remained below 2 percent.
The statement released Tuesday said nothing about the possibility of additional asset purchases. More information about the committee's deliberations may come in three weeks, when the Fed releases an account of the meeting.
The next meeting of the policy-making committee is scheduled for April 24-25.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A monitor on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange showed the Fed's decision to leave interest rates near zero. Rates have been extremely low since 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); TESTIMONY (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); CONSUMPTION (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTEREST RATES (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



565 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Muddled Economy, Muddled Campaign

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The final major economic turning point of President Obama's first term seems to have arrived. The question is which way the economy will turn.
Job growth has picked up nicely in the last few months, raising the prospect that the American economy is finally in the early stages of a recovery that will gather strength over time.
But with gas prices rising, the government cutting workers and consumers still deep in debt, some forecasters predict that economic growth -- and with it, job growth -- will slow in coming months. 
Politically, the difference between the two situations is vast. In one, Mr. Obama will be able to campaign on a claim, as he has recently begun to do, that the country is back on track.
In another, he will be left to explain that recoveries from financial crises take years, and to argue that Republicans want to return to the Bush-era policies that created the crisis -- as he tried to argue, unsuccessfully, in the 2010 midterm election. His approval rating has slipped again in some polls recently, with higher gas prices possibly playing a role.
As a result, the economic numbers over the next couple of months, including an unemployment report on April 6, will have bigger political implications than the typical batch of data. The Federal Reserve acknowledged the uncertainty in its scheduled statement on Tuesday, suggesting the economy had improved somewhat but still predicting only ''moderate economic growth.''
Economists say the economy's near-term direction depends relatively little on Mr. Obama's economic policies. The standoff over Iran's nuclear program, the European debt crisis and other events will most likely affect the economy more.
But many American voters are still likely to make their decision based on the economy. Historically, nothing -- not campaign advertisements, social issues or even wars -- has influenced voters more heavily than the direction of the economy in an election year.
''If you could know one thing and you had to predict which party was going to win the next presidential election,'' Lynn Vavreck, a political scientist at the University of California, Los Angeles, said, ''you couldn't do better than knowing the change in economic growth.''
Particularly important, Ms. Vavreck said, were the first six months of an election year, when many voters form impressions that stick.
Ultimately, the 2012 election may be close enough that other issues, like immigration or Afghanistan, will play a major role. But the last two years make clear just how important the economy's direction will be to Mr. Obama's fortunes.
His approval ratings drifted down in early 2010, as job growth weakened and ''recovery summer'' -- a White House phrase that Mr. Obama's aides would now prefer to forget -- failed to materialize. His ratings rose as growth picked in late 2010 only to fall again when job growth weakened in early 2011 as the Arab Spring pushed up energy prices and the standoff between the president and Congress over the debt limit damaged investor confidence.
The pattern has repeated itself in recent months. As economic growth picked up late last year and helped cause a surge in job growth, Mr. Obama's approval ratings rose to a level that suggested he would be the favorite this fall.
Over the past three months, monthly job growth has averaged 245,000, a rate that has generally led the incumbent party to win re-election. In only three races since World War II -- in 1952 (when the popular Dwight D. Eisenhower was running), in 1968 (when the Vietnam War hobbled the Democrats) and in 1976 (when Watergate hobbled the Republicans) -- has the outcome been different from what the economy's direction would have suggested.
In recent weeks, though, with slower economic growth and higher gas prices, Mr. Obama's rating has slipped in some polls. So far, job growth has not slowed, which has caused some analysts to say that the latest drop in approval ratings may be something of a blip.
Either way, the big uncertainty is whether job growth slows substantially in coming months.
More bullish forecasters point out that Americans are starting to behave in ways that suggest they are finally leaving the financial crisis behind. The government reported Tuesday that retail sales rose at a solid pace in February and the months leading up to it. Companies -- which have historically high profit margins -- are adding workers at the fastest pace in more than five years, as many begin to make up for deep cuts during the recession.
And gas prices, for all of their psychological impact, do not have a major effect on many families' budgets. In January, gasoline accounted for only 3.6 percent of total consumer spending.
Dean Maki, the chief United States economist at Barclays Capital, argues that the economy's strengths are more than enough to continue reducing the jobless rate. With many baby boomers hitting their retirement age, Mr. Maki notes, the economy does not need to add as many jobs as in the past to keep up with normal labor-force growth.
Other forecasters argue, however, that job growth has probably hit its high-water mark for 2012. The federal government is cutting workers, and state and local employment is roughly flat. The dollar has risen, cutting into export growth. Households remain deeply indebted, which will restrain spending.
''I'm inclined to the more bearish camp,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at IHS Global Insight. For the rest of the year, Mr. Gault's firm forecasts monthly job growth of around 175,000.
One significant factor may be weather. The warm winter has allowed households to spend less on heating, while also causing people to travel more and go to the mall more. That economic lift will soon disappear.
If a solid recovery has finally taken hold and job growth remains above 200,000 a month, many polling analysts and political scientists view Mr. Obama as a favorite. If oil prices rise much further, or something else causes job growth to fall close to 100,000, he becomes the underdog.
In the middle -- if job growth slows a bit, to something like 175,000 a month -- the 2012 election has the makings of one of the closer races in recent history.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Newt Gingrich has made a campaign issue of rising gas prices, which appear to have hurt President Obama's popularity. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); EURO CRISIS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (62%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



566 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1647 words

HEADLINE: Obama Allies Feel Pressure To Raise Cash

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE and MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
The warning came from David Plouffe, President Obama's top political adviser: The Koch brothers and Republican ''super PACs'' have pledged hundreds of millions of dollars to defeat Mr. Obama, he told a dozen wealthy Democrats gathered in a Silicon Valley office suite. Do not believe what you read about all the money the president will raise himself, Mr. Plouffe urged them. He needs your help.
With the general election campaign just a few months away, Mr. Obama's allies are under growing pressure to raise money rapidly for Democratic-leaning independent groups, warning his supporters that the huge cash advantage mustered by Republican groups could prove decisive this fall, overwhelming Mr. Obama despite his own formidable fund-raising apparatus.
Early indications are that the Democratic super PACs are facing an uphill climb. While Mr. Obama's decision last month to endorse super PAC fund-raising -- a reversal of his longstanding opposition to campaign spending by independent groups -- has made potential donors more receptive to Priorities USA Action and similar groups, few so far have written the kind of six- and seven-figure checks that Republican super PACs are collecting. 
Priorities USA Action, a super PAC supporting the president's re-election, will report $2 million in February donations, group officials said, including $1 million from the television host Bill Maher. Those amounts are substantial for Priorities USA and a related group, which together raised about $6.1 million through the end of 2011.
But it leaves them far behind American Crossroads, the leading Republican super PAC, which took in $51 million in 2011 and expects to eventually raise $240 million. Charles and David Koch, the billionaire conservative oilmen, expect to raise an additional $200 million for other groups opposing Mr. Obama. The disparity leaves the president largely reliant on the tens of millions he is raising for his own campaign to counter an expected onslaught of negative advertising.
''February was obviously a much better month than we've had in a while,'' said Bill Burton, a spokesman for Priorities USA. ''But Democrats who want the president to win re-election are going to have to ramp up the numbers in order to stay competitive with the avalanche of Republican money coming at him.''
Democratic super PAC officials have beseeched donors with slide shows illustrating how a group backing Mitt Romney has spent millions of dollars pounding Mr. Romney's rivals in the Republican primary -- an object lesson in the power of super PACs, they say. They have also presented expected fund-raising figures for the Republican National Committee and various conservative groups, which they say will negate Mr. Obama's advantage in traditional fund-raising.
Although federal election law prohibits super PACs from coordinating their spending with campaigns they are supporting, the Obama camp is exploiting loopholes that allow the president's aides to help court donors. In February, Jim Messina, Mr. Obama's campaign manager, addressed prospective Priorities USA donors at the Chicago offices of John W. Rogers Jr., an investment manager and an Obama fund-raiser, while Mr. Plouffe's event, this month, was hosted by Steve Westly, a California venture capitalist and a major Obama donor.
Still, significant obstacles remain, according to interviews with leading Democratic donors and consultants.
Some potential donors are unhappy with the president's stance on climate change or other issues. Mr. Obama's backers on Wall Street are leery of their money being used for attacks on Mr. Romney's background in private equity, already the topic of millions of dollars' worth of slash-and-burn advertising this year from a super PAC supporting Newt Gingrich. Still others are not persuaded that Mr. Obama faces any real threat, with the economy improving and the Republican field in the midst of a long, bruising primary.
''I'm undecided,'' said Mark Buell, a philanthropist and a major Democratic donor. ''It's really about whether we can afford to take the high road on this. And that is going to be decided by some of the poll data going forward.''
Democratic super PACs have also had mixed results wooing the small circle of wealthy liberals who have helped finance Democratic-leaning outside groups in the past, some of whom are not persuaded that a super PAC controlled by Mr. Obama's former aides is the best use of their millions.
Among them are Peter B. Lewis, the billionaire chairman of Progressive Insurance, and the investor George Soros, who together donated more than $40 million to Democratic-leaning independent groups in the 2004 election cycle, the last time Democrats were able to muster these kinds of large donations.
Mr. Soros recently declined to provide seed money for a joint super PAC fund-raising effort, according to people involved in the discussions. He is unlikely to contribute to Priorities USA, a person with knowledge of his thinking said last week, though he has not ruled it out. Mr. Lewis is focusing his giving elsewhere this year, an adviser said.
In February, Priorities USA hired Diana Rogalle, who was chief fund-raiser for America Coming Together, which spent $200 million on behalf of Democrats in 2004. But with support from longstanding Democratic megadonors in question, the group is focusing on other constituencies: African-American business executives and Silicon Valley entrepreneurs, gay donors, and longtime Obama supporters from Chicago.
Like Restore Our Future, the super PAC backing Mr. Romney, Priorities USA is turning to people who are already among their candidate's top ''bundlers,'' those who raise money for a campaign from friends, family and business associates. The group has secured checks or commitments from Sandra Thompson, a California lawyer who has raised more than $200,000 for Mr. Obama's campaign, and Michael Kempner, a public relations executive who has raised more than $500,000 for Mr. Obama.
Another new donor to Priorities USA is Lamell McMorris, a native of Chicago who runs a law firm and government affairs strategy office in Washington.
''I'm really just trying to do the best I can to answer the president's call -- to make sure that one side is not vastly outspent in this election,'' Mr. McMorris said in an interview. ''I was not quite aware of the disparity.''
Mr. Maher said he had decided to contribute to Priorities USA after attending the Grammys in mid-February and being told by several Hollywood friends that the election was ''in the bag'' for Mr. Obama.
''One reason I was doing this was to try to throw a snowball and create an avalanche among rich people on the left,'' said Mr. Maher, who did not inform Priorities USA of his plans before announcing the donation.
Priorities USA officials held fund-raising meetings last year in conjunction with gatherings of the campaign's national finance committee in Chicago and Washington, but without the help of White House or Obama campaign officials. The group is hoping that a significant number of the finance committee's roughly 400 members -- each of whom has committed to raising $350,000 for Mr. Obama's re-election -- will eventually become Priorities USA donors.
Officials at Priorities USA and other Democratic super PACs were also invited to address donors at a recent retreat of the Democracy Alliance, a partnership set up in the mid-2000s to funnel money to liberal groups. That decision angered some of the people involved in the alliance, which has tended to emphasize building up a ''progressive infrastructure'' of research groups and issue advocacy organizations rather than winning elections.
And many big liberal donors are simply uneasy about the unlimited money now sloshing around in the campaign, according to interviews with donors and consultants.
''Some of the major donors on the left see it as a bit unseemly,'' said Steve Phillips, the chairman of PowerPAC.org, which ran advertisements backing Mr. Obama in the 2008 primaries and organized voter mobilization, raising more than $10 million, much of it from a half-dozen big donors.
Beginning in December and continuing through early this year, Rob Stein, the founder of the Democracy Alliance, helped spearhead talks among independent Democratic groups about how best to coordinate their efforts. But plans to set up an ambitious fund-raising operation across the super PACs and other Democratic organizations were abandoned after some major donors backed out. Instead, the groups have established joint bank accounts to allow donors the convenience of writing a single check for multiple groups.
Mr. Phillips and his wife, Susan Sandler -- the daughter of Herb and Marion Sandler, who are also major liberal benefactors -- contributed $2 million to PowerPAC.org during the 2008 election and would seem to be prime candidates to give to Priorities USA this year. But Mr. Phillips said he and his wife were focusing on building political organizations that emphasized smaller donations.
''I don't think that's the right model this time around,'' he said, referring to super PACS.
Jennifer Frutchy, who advises Mr. Lewis, the Progressive Insurance chairman, on philanthropic issues, said that he mostly concentrated on longer-term investments in liberal policy and advocacy groups and generally had a distaste for having his donations used for political advertising, particularly negative ads.
Mr. Lewis did contribute $200,000 last year to the start-up of American Bridge 21st Century, a super PAC that provides opposition research for other Democratic-aligned independent groups. But Ms. Frutchy said that he was unlikely to give to any other super PACs this year. Mr. Soros, who, like Mr. Lewis, gave more than $20 million to Democratic groups in the 2004 elections, contributed $100,000 last year to Majority PAC, a group supporting Democratic candidates in Senate races.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bill Maher gave $1 million to Priorities USA Action. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JANET VAN HAM/HBO, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 George Soros was a big donor in 2004, but not now. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NAMAS BHOJANI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); ELECTION LAW (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); CHARLES KOCH (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); GEORGE SOROS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



567 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Don't Tread On Us

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
Hillary Clinton has fought for women's rights around the world. But who would have dreamed that she would have to fight for them at home?
''Why extremists always focus on women remains a mystery to me,'' she told an adoring crowd at the Women in the World Summit at Lincoln Center on Saturday. ''But they all seem to. It doesn't matter what country they're in or what religion they claim. They want to control women. They want to control how we dress. They want to control how we act. They even want to control the decisions we make about our own health and bodies.
''Yes,'' she continued to applause, ''it is hard to believe that even here at home, we have to stand up for women's rights and reject efforts to marginalize any one of us, because America needs to set an example for the entire world.'' 
As secretary of state, Clinton is supposed to stay out of domestic politics. But this was a moment pregnant with possibility, a titanic clash of the Inevitable (Hillary) and the Indefensible (Republican cavemen).
The attempt by Republican men to wrestle American women back into chastity belts has not only breathed life into President Obama, it has roused and riled Hillary. And that could turn out to be the most dangerous thing the wildly self-destructive G.O.P. leaders have done.
In some kind of insane bout of mass misogyny, Republicans are hounding out the women voters -- including Republicans and independents -- who helped them gain control of the House in 2010.
Senator Olympia Snowe, who's fed up and leaving Congress, told The Washington Post's Karen Tumulty that ''it feels as if we are going back to another era,'' warning that Republicans could drive women into Democratic arms.
And whose arms would be more welcoming to the sisters than Hillary's? The woman who has been mocked as ''the sex-retary of state'' by Rush Limbaugh would know just where to hit back.
There has been fevered speculation about Hillary ascending. Patrick Caddell and Douglas Schoen suggested in The Wall Street Journal that President Obama should take ''the moral high ground'' and step aside for his secretary of state. Hillary, they argued sanguinely, could ''break the gridlock in Washington.''
It's an amusing but absurd scenario.
Al Hunt of Bloomberg News wrote this week that Hillary could waltz past Larry Summers into the presidency of the World Bank and that she is the automatic Democratic front-runner for 2016. My colleague Bill Keller suggested that she replace Joe Biden on the ticket in 2012 and demote him to Foggy Bottom: ''Vice President Clinton would be a formidable asset in governing as well as campaigning, both as a political calculator and as an emissary to Capitol Hill. She has, to put it mildly, an ability to navigate the world of powerful, problematic men.''
She wouldn't, however, be able to navigate past two powerful men who would find her elevation problematic: Obama and Biden. Although chatterers love to chat about the Joe-Hillary switch because she's so much more compelling -- and masterful -- than the whole Republican field, it's not on the radar screen at the White House. It would make the president seem weak, desperate and disloyal and get him a vice president who would pull focus and be a competitor. Besides, before he would go, Biden would handcuff himself to Bo.
The Republican assault on women does, though, provide a glide path to the White House both for Obama in 2012 and Hillary in 2016.
Women have watched a chilling cascade of efforts in Congress and a succession of states to turn women into chattel, to shame them about sex and curb their reproductive rights. They've seen the craven response of G.O.P. candidates after Limbaugh branded a law student wanting insurance coverage for birth control pills, commonplace for almost five decades, as a ''prostitute'' and ''slut.''
American women have suddenly realized that their emancipation in the 21st century is not as secure as they had assumed. On ''Meet the Press'' on Sunday, Gov. Bob McDonnell of Virginia, a Republican, had the gall to say this, justifying his support for a bill designed to humiliate women getting abortions by penetrating them with a wand to take a picture: ''Every invasive procedure has an informed consent requirement.'' What he really meant is that when abortion is an option, informed consent should require an invasive procedure. Along with Rick Santorum's Taliban views, Mitt Romney suggested in an interview on Tuesday with a St. Louis TV station that to help balance the federal budget he would eliminate Planned Parenthood funding: ''We're going to get rid of that.''
Women who assumed that electing Obama would lift all minority boats are beginning to think: Maybe he's not enough. If the desire of these conservative male leaders to yoke women is this close to the surface, if they are perversely driven to debase women even though it could lead to their own political demise, then women may require more than Obama.
If women are so vulnerable, they may need one of their own.
Is she inevitable?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); JOE BIDEN (58%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (57%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (50%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



568 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
FORMER MURDOCH EXECUTIVE
SAID TO HAVE BEEN ARRESTED
Rebekah Brooks, the former chief executive of News International, the British newspaper division of Rupert Murdoch's media empire, was arrested on suspicion of obstruction of justice, according to a person with knowledge of the arrest. Page A4
AFGHAN OFFICIALS ATTACKED 
Militants riding motorcycles attacked a high-level Afghan government delegation during a memorial service in the village where an American soldier is said to have killed 16 people, mostly children and women, in a door-to-door rampage two days earlier. Page A8
SWIFT JUSTICE IN IRAQ
Fearful of a future as violent as the past, the men who hold power in Iraq have seized the moment of American departure and national political chaos to administer their own form of justice: expelling suspected insurgents and their families from the town of Ishaqi with the threat of death. Page A10
TRUCE CALMS BORDER STRIFE
Both Israel and the Islamic Jihad militant group in Gaza indicated that they would abide by an Egyptian-brokered truce ending four days of cross-border fighting, but each warned that maintaining the calm would depend on the actions of the other side. Page A12
IRAN SHUTS OUT INSPECTORS
Iran signaled that it was unwilling to grant a request by international nuclear inspectors for unfettered access to a restricted military complex that inspectors suspect may house a chamber intended to test explosives used in atomic weapons triggers. Page A12
SYRIAN ATTACKS CONTINUE
Emboldened by faltering diplomacy and a Russian pledge to keep supplying weapons, Syria's armed forces assaulted insurgent enclaves in the northern part of the country, invading the city of Idlib in an expanded campaign to crush the year-old uprising against President Bashar al-Assad. Page A13
U.N. CHIEF URGES REFORM
President Bashar al-Assad of Syria should not delude himself that he can survive the Syrian uprising without significant reforms, the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, said. Page A12
National
COMMUNITY WEIGHS IN
ON CAMPUS GIVEAWAY
The owners of a school campus in Massachusetts want to give the property to a Christian group but residents object to one particular Christian organization. Page A14
ECONOMIC IMPLICATIONS
The economic numbers over the next couple of months, including the unemployment report on April 6, will have bigger political implications than the typical batch of data as President Obama battles to be re-elected. News analysis. Page A17
STATE PLAN TO SAVE DETROIT
With Detroit expected to run out of cash this spring, state officials in Michigan proposed a restructuring deal with the city leaders that would establish a joint advisory board to address the city's financial troubles without appointing an outside emergency manager. Page A14
MODEL DETENTION CENTER
On a patch of Texas farmland near the Gulf of Mexico, immigration officials introduced one of the most high-profile results of the three-year-old plan to overhaul the nation's immigration detention system: a new facility intended to provide a less penal setting for detainees. Page A20
New York
FACING LOSS OF DISTRICT,
CONGRESSMAN EYES SENATE
Representative Bob Turner, a Republican who unexpectedly won a House seat in a closely watched special election last year, has decided to run for the United States Senate in New York, seeking to oust Kirsten E. Gillibrand, a Democrat. Page A22
Obituaries
GEORGE KERCHNER, 93
As an Army Ranger, George Kerchner was decorated for bravery in leading his company up the face of a towering cliff to seize a battery of German big guns overlooking the American invasion beaches of D-Day. Page B16
Business
LAS VEGAS SANDS FACES
SUIT OVER CASINO LICENSE
Las Vegas Sands, the casino operator controlled by the billionaire Sheldon G. Adelson and his family, is facing a $375 million lawsuit over how the company won a lucrative gambling license in Macau. Page B1
NASDAQ CLOSES ABOVE 3,000
Stocks climbed to new heights in part on stronger retail sales data, pushing the broad market to levels last seen in June 2008 and the Nasdaq composite index to close above the 3,000-point milestone for the first time since 2000. Page B1
OBAMA INITIATES TRADE CASE
President Obama announced that the United States would take the first step toward filing a legal case against the Chinese government over its reported hoarding of rare earth metals used to manufacture an array of sophisticated products. Page B1
ALUMINUM OFFICIAL QUITS
A big shareholder in the world's largest aluminum company stepped down as chairman in a dispute with another wealthy Russian owner about whether the company should focus solely on aluminum or also keep a foothold in other mining ventures. Page B2
Sports
A SLUR BRINGS A FINE,
BUT NOT AN APOLOGY
Michael Llodra of France was fined $2,500 for verbal abuse after directing an ethnic slur at a Korean-American fan during the Indian Wells tennis tournament last week. Attempts to persuade Llodra to apologize have been unsuccessful. Page B13
Arts
NEW YORK STAGECRAFT
PLIES THE HIGH SEAS
Disney's deep pockets, in an era when Broadway producers struggle to raise money, have turned cruise theater into a plum opportunity for those who are not soured by strictures like blending venerable Disney characters and songs into new shows. Page C1
Dining
ACME SIGNALS ARRIVAL
OF NEW NORDIC CUISINE
The new Acme Bar and Grill slipped into its space stealthily, but its presence signals the genuine arrival of the new Nordic cuisine, an experiment in restricting the kitchen to ingredients that can be grown, caught or foraged locally. Page D1
NEW CHEFS FILL BIG SHOES
In a coincidence, two of the city's highest-profile pastry chefs left their jobs at the end of last year. Their replacements at Le Bernardin and Jean Georges have been named, and this next generation is now busily tending to the trade's ganaches, meringues, herbal syrups and flecks of gold leaf. Page D5
Op-Ed
Thomas L. Friedman PAGE A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CHILDREN (75%); FAMILY (75%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); RELIGION (67%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (66%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-ISLAMI AL-JIHAD (56%); HEZBOLLAH (56%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (90%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (56%); BARACK OBAMA (53%); BAN KI-MOON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (64%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (50%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



569 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WASHINGTON; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: Federal Judges Warn of Effects of Planned Budget Cuts

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Some federal civil trials may have to be suspended because of budget cuts that Congress has scheduled to take effect in January, the federal judiciary's policy-making body said Tuesday. The Judicial Conference of the United States, which is made up of judges from around the country, said it was concerned about what it called a looming financial crisis. David Sentelle, chief judge of the federal appeals court in Washington, said that contingency plans included furloughs for nonessential court personnel and delaying some civil trials. The cuts also could mean there will not be enough money to pay lawyers who represent poor defendants, the group said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (91%); BUDGETS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LAWYERS (87%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (85%); APPEALS COURTS (83%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: JUDICIAL CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES (84%)

PERSON: DAVID B SENTELLE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



570 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Big Union Muscle For Obama Campaign

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
ORLANDO, Fla. - As the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s winter meeting opened here on Tuesday, its political director mapped out organized labor's plans for the 2012 campaign and how unions will respond to what he says will be $500 million in ''super PAC'' ads backing Republicans.
The political director, Michael Podhorzer, said this election would be unlike any other. ''The elections in 2012 and this decade wouldn't be recognizable to Bill Clinton or even George Bush -- everything has changed,'' Mr. Podhorzer said at a news briefing. ''The money coming in already is unprecedented and it provides even greater power to the voice of the affluent.'' 
Calling organized labor, ''the original social network,'' Mr. Podhorzer said the federation's 57 member unions hoped to respond to the super PACs by mobilizing 400,000 workers to knock on doors and make phone calls to spread a pro-Obama message. The A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s executive council was expected to formally endorse President Obama at a 3:30 p.m. news conference on Tuesday.
''We have this complete disconnect in our politics, which is dominated more than ever by the affluent, while there is an economic crisis that has nearly half the population in jeopardy,'' Mr. Podhorzer said.
At the news briefing, he showed a broadcast spot attacking Elizabeth Warren, a Democratic candidate for Senate in Massachusetts, that was sponsored by Crossroads GPS, a super PAC started with help from the strategist Karl Rove, President George W. Bush's top political adviser. The ad accused Ms. Warren of being cozy with the nation's banks in supporting the financial bailout and large bankers' bonuses.
Mr. Podhorzer said the federation of labor unions hoped to train tens of thousands of activists to go door to door so they can discuss the issues with their neighbors --and perhaps explain what they see as inaccurate about ads like that. Ms. Warren is known as a fierce critic of the banks, many of which are vigorously opposing her candidacy.
''You can run that ad against Elizabeth Warren 100 times, but if someone you know knows what's wrong with it and tells you, the impact goes away,'' Mr. Podhorzer said.
He said the A.F.L.-C.I.O. hoped to provide its volunteers ''with the tools and the training to be in communities so that they can spread the truth beyond the workplace to the neighborhoods, to the Elks Club, to the gun club to the churches. Everywhere.''
Steven Law, chief executive of American Crossroads, a political nonprofit that Mr. Rove also helped to found, disputed the labor leader's take on President Obama and Elizabeth Warren, but he acknowledged organized labor's political clout. ''In the last four or five election cycles, they've become extremely sophisticated at deploying boots to the ground,'' he said.
''Groups like us we don't have millions of members that we can readily deploy,'' he added. ''We tend to be more active on the airwaves.''
Some union leaders have expressed increased optimism in recent days about the Democrats ability to retain control of the Senate, helped by the decision of Senator Olympia Snowe, a Maine Republican, not to run for re-election. But Mr. Podhorzer voiced concern about several especially labor-friendly senators who were up for re-election. He said that if those candidates lost-he mentioned, in particular, Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, and Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan - that would greatly set back labor's cause in Congress.
''If they're replaced that will spell six years of a very anti-worker sentiment,'' he said.
He also voiced concern that three Democratic governors who have helped block anti-union legislation would be stepping down: Brian Schweitzer of Montana (term-limited), John Lynch of New Hampshire (retiring), and Christine Gregoire of Washington State (retiring). He said that if Republicans win in those states and also defeat Missouri's Democratic governor, Jay Nixon, who is running for re-election, that could open the doors to anti-union laws in those states, like the ones passed in Wisconsin.
Mr. Podhorzer said that the A.F.L.-C.I.O., in seeking to be more independent of the Democratic Party, has begun building a permanent political structure in six states: Florida, Michigan, Nevada, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin. Those are all important swing states, and organized labor has a large presence in all of them. This new structure will focus on year-round mobilization around issues as well as political work at key times. This year, Mr. Podhorzer said, unions will also have sizable political operations in two dozen other states, including Washington, North Dakota and Maine.
''When we get past the Republicans throwing dust in each other's eyes and they focus on Obama, this is going to be a serious race,'' he said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); BAILOUTS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); ELIZABETH WARREN (89%); BILL CLINTON (78%); KARL ROVE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



571 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Obama Files A Complaint Over China

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- If there was ever any doubt about the political salience of China in an election year, it was erased Tuesday, when President Obama stepped before cameras in the White House Rose Garden to announce a procedural move in a long-running trade dispute with China over rare earth metals.
Mr. Obama said that the United States was lodging a formal ''request for consultations'' with China at the World Trade Organization, the first step toward filing a legal case against the Chinese government over its ostensible hoarding of metals that are used to manufacture a range of sophisticated technology products. 
The United States is being joined in its request by the European Union and Japan. But the timing of the announcement about an incremental development --when prices of rare earth metals have declined and on the day of Republican primaries in Mississippi and Alabama -- raised questions about the White House's political calculations.
Given China's robust defense of its trade policies and the several years that any legal challenge would drag on, trade analysts and industry experts said the filing might be too late to make much of difference.
''It's probably more political at this stage of the game,'' said Karl A. Gschneider Jr., a professor and expert in rare earth metals at Iowa State University. ''But it's still important that we do it.''
Mr. Obama put the rare earth dispute in the context of his drive to restore American manufacturing, create more middle-class jobs and improve the nation's competitiveness in industries like advanced batteries and hybrid vehicles. By hindering the shipment of metals used in these industries, he said, China was jeopardizing the ability of the United States to compete in the global economy.
''We want our companies building those products right here in America,'' Mr. Obama said. ''But to do that, American manufacturers need to have access to rare earth materials, which China supplies.''
''If China would simply let the market work on its own, we'd have no objections,'' he added. ''But their policies currently are preventing that from happening, and they go against the very rules that China agreed to follow.''
For Mr. Obama, turning a spotlight on China in an election year carries risks and rewards. While it will help him with labor unions and in battleground states like Michigan and Ohio, analysts said, it could also sow future conflicts with Beijing, if the trade frictions spill into other parts of the relationship.
Administration officials said Mr. Obama would strike a balance. He welcomed China's vice president and likely future leader, Xi Jinping, to Washington last month, they noted. And they said he would seek a constructive relationship with China, even as he prodded it to abide by international trade standards.
China has become a popular bogeyman on the campaign trail, with Republican candidates like Mitt Romney accusing Mr. Obama of not doing enough to protect American workers. Mr. Romney said China was guilty of stealing American technology and hacking into its computers, and he has pledged to declare Beijing a currency manipulator on his first day in the Oval Office.
Mr. Obama defended his record against China, noting that his administration had brought trade cases against Beijing at twice the rate of the Bush administration. He cited a case against China's shipment of tires, which he claimed had resulted in the restoration of more than a thousand American jobs.
Rare earth metals are used to make products ranging from advanced batteries and wind turbines to smart bombs.
China, which has a near-monopoly on these materials, has used export taxes and other quotas to slow shipments of them to Japan and the West, forcing some foreign companies to relocate factories to China.
China's actions had caused prices for these metals to skyrocket, Professor Gschneider said, and though prices have declined about 30 percent from their peak levels, they are still inflated. Prices, he added, were only part of the problem; China is simply holding back some of the metals.
The administration was applauded by Senator Sherrod Brown, a Democrat from Ohio, who has called for tougher action against China on trade as well as its currency. ''Rare earth hoarding is one of the many illegal trade practices that China employs to tilt the playing field in its own favor,'' he said. ''Enough is enough.''
But some Democrats said the White House needed to do more. Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, another Democratic critic of China, said the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, should urge the World Bank to block financing of Chinese mining projects, and the Interior Department to block such projects in the United States.
''There are faster ways to assert leverage on China than relying on the W.T.O., which could take years to resolve the case,'' Mr. Schumer said in a statement.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama with John Bryson, left, the commerce chief, and Ron Kirk, trade representative. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); TRADE DISPUTES (72%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); GLOBALIZATION (63%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); XI JINPING (79%); RON KIRK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



572 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: New Interest In Hacking As Threat To Security

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- During the five-month period between October and February, there were 86 reported attacks on computer systems in the United States that control critical infrastructure, factories and databases, according to the Department of Homeland Security, compared with 11 over the same period a year ago.
None of the attacks caused significant damage, but they were part of a spike in hacking attacks on networks and computers of all kinds over the same period. The department recorded more than 50,000 incidents since October, about 10,000 more than in the same period a year earlier, with an incident defined as any intrusion or attempted intrusion on a computer network. 
The increase has prompted a new interest in cybersecurity on Capitol Hill, where lawmakers are being prodded by the Obama administration to advance legislation that could require new standards at facilities where a breach could cause significant casualties or economic damage.
It is not clear whether the higher numbers were due to increased reporting amid a wave of high-profile hacking, including the arrest last week of several members of the group Anonymous, or an actual increase in attacks.
James A. Lewis, a senior fellow and a specialist in computer security issues at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a policy group in Washington, said that as hacking awareness had increased, attacks had become more common. He said that the attacks on the nation's infrastructure were particularly jarring.
''Some of this is heightened awareness because everyone is babbling about it,'' he said of the reported rise in computer attacks. ''But much of it is because the technology has improved and the hackers have gotten better and people and countries are probing around more like the Russians and Chinese have.''
He added: ''We hit rock bottom on this in 2010. Then we hit rock bottom in 2011. And we are still at rock bottom. We were vulnerable before and now we're just more vulnerable. You can destroy physical infrastructure with a cyberattack just like you could with a bomb.''
The legislation the administration is pressing Congress to pass would give the federal government greater authority to regulate the security used by companies that run the nation's infrastructure. It would give the Homeland Security Department the authority to enforce minimum standards on companies whose service or product would lead to mass casualties, evacuations or major economic damage if crippled by hackers.
The bill the administration backs is sponsored by Senators Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, and Susan Collins, Republican of Maine. It has bipartisan support, and its prospects appear good. Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, is sponsoring a more business-friendly bill that emphasizes the sharing of information and has fewer requirements for companies.
Last week on Capitol Hill, Janet Napolitano, the secretary of Homeland Security; Robert S. Mueller III, the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, made their pitch to roughly four dozen senators about why they should pass the Lieberman-Collins bill.
At a closed-door briefing, the senators were shown how a power company employee could derail the New York City electrical grid by clicking on an e-mail attachment sent by a hacker, and how an attack during a heat wave could have a cascading impact that would lead to deaths and cost the nation billions of dollars.
''I think General Dempsey said it best when he said that prior to 9/11, there were all kinds of information out there that a catastrophic attack was looming,'' Ms. Napolitano said in an interview. ''The information on a cyberattack is at that same frequency and intensity and is bubbling at the same level, and we should not wait for an attack in order to do something.''
General Dempsey told the senators that he had skipped a meeting of the National Security Council on Iran to attend the briefing because he was so concerned about a cyberattack, according to a person who had been told details of the meeting. A spokesman for General Dempsey said the chairman had ''sent his vice chairman to the meeting on Iran so that he could attend the Senate meeting and emphasize his concern about cybersecurity.''
''His point was about his presence at the cyber exercise rather than a value judgment on the 'threat,' '' the spokesman, Col. David Lapan, said.
Experts say one of the biggest problems is that no part of the government has complete authority over the issue. The Central Intelligence Agency and the National Security Agency give the government intelligence on potential attacks, and the F.B.I. prosecutes hackers who break the law. The Department of Homeland Security receives reports about security breaches but has no authority to compel business to improve their security.
''Nobody does critical infrastructure of the dot-com space where America now relies on faith healing and snake oil for protection,'' Mr. Lewis said. ''The administration wants it to be the Department of Homeland Security, but the department needs additional authorities to be effective.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Janet Napolitano, the secretary of Homeland Security, asked senators last week to pass a cybersecurity bill co-sponsored by Senators Joseph I. Lieberman and Susan Collins, below. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES0 (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); CYBERCRIME (89%); COMPUTER CRIME (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (91%)

PERSON: SUSAN COLLINS (77%); JANET NAPOLITANO (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (53%); JOE LIEBERMAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



573 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Bruce C. Ratner

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Ratner, 67, is the chairman and chief executive of the Forest City Ratner Companies, which owns and operates 11 million square feet of property in the New York area, including the MetroTech Center in downtown Brooklyn and the Frank Gehry-designed 8 Spruce Street in Manhattan.
The company was a development partner of The New York Times's current headquarters. Its Barclays Center arena, part of the Atlantic Yards mixed-use development in Brooklyn, is set to open this year. 
Mr. Ratner also served as commissioner of consumer affairs in the Koch administration.
Interview conducted and condensed by
VIVIAN MARINO
Q.So you were born on 1/23/45.
A. It's significant because I'm obsessed with numbers. They just stay in my head forever, and that's what I think about.
Q.You seem a bit obsessed with Brooklyn, too, yet you were born and raised in the Midwest and live on the Upper East Side.
A. When I came to the city after law school, my first job was working for the City of New York. Actually, it was in Queens during the Lindsay administration, and I worked in all the boroughs. Brooklyn had a fascination for me. Everybody has heard of Brooklyn -- be it the Brooklyn Dodgers, Coney Island or the Brooklyn Bridge. We would have moved to Brooklyn had my kids not started school in Manhattan.
Q.One of your latest Brooklyn projects is the Barclays Center sports arena, future home of the Nets basketball team. Is it still opening in September?
A. That's correct. Virtually all the steel is up, and it's virtually all enclosed. Now basically we're working on the interiors. Some parts of it are even ahead of schedule. It'll finish on time.
Building -- compared to getting there -- was relatively easy. I didn't think it would take this long -- I thought it would take five, maybe six, years. It's eight years.
Q.You've encountered much resistance for the Atlantic Yards mixed-use project over all, from eminent-domain lawsuits to neighborhood protests, in addition to financial issues.
A. I didn't think we'd have the amount of litigation that we had, the opposition vocally that we wound up having.
Q.What is the status of the Atlantic Yards housing? Groundbreaking was supposed to have begun this year.
A Breaking ground on the housing we had hoped would begin this year, and it will begin this year, toward the end of the year. A major reason that it's gotten delayed is a strong desire to do modular.
Let me just say, there's a lot of construction going on there besides the arena. Part of what we are doing and had to do was the infrastructure. We also had to move a railroad storage yard. And we're working on additional infrastructure: the subway tunnel that connects the project, the arena, with existing subways.
Q.Why go with prefab housing?
A. It's hard for me to do things unless I have passion for them and unless I think they have some change and impact in a positive way. The modular fits into that vein, in the sense that construction -- high-rise construction, commercial construction -- has not changed in 50 to 100 years. We need to figure out economic ways to build our cities, ways in which we can build affordable housing or middle-income housing.
Q.Is it significantly cheaper to build?
A. It'll save initially 15 to 20 percent on cost. What kind of long-term effect will it have? Potentially it will be tremendous, because we're talking about labor cost savings. Long term, we're talking about speed, efficiency, because what we're doing in the factories is really not that different than you would do on the site.
Q.There's been some criticism about whether there's enough affordable housing to accommodate families.
A. Eventually there will be about 6,400 units, and 4,500 will be rental apartments, including 2,250 for low-, moderate- and middle-income families. We're required by all of our agreements to build a certain amount. We already announced the first building with 50 percent affordable and middle-income.
The answer is: There is no winning. And that's O.K. You're always going to have detractors. As soon as you do one thing, they'll say you're not going to do the next thing and the next thing. And if you really follow detractors, that's what they always do. People tend not to look backwards and see what was accomplished.
Q.Was it difficult giving up a majority stake in the Nets to the Russian billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov to help finance the arena?
A. It was necessary because we had the recession. We had expected to finance much of this project, then all of a sudden it was much less financing, and so a lot of equity had to go in. To raise that equity we had to sell a portion of the team and the arena. Was I upset or disappointed? No. What was important was bringing professional sports back to Brooklyn and making sure that the team was in good hands.
Q.And what about bringing the Islanders hockey team there?
A. We'd love to have the Islanders. We've had various discussions with the owner, Charles Wang. He has to stay where he is, I think, until 2015. I don't know what will happen.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY EARL WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (89%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); EMINENT DOMAIN (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LAWYERS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (67%); BASKETBALL (64%); LITIGATION (60%)

COMPANY: RATNER COS (93%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (93%)

PERSON: FRANK GEHRY (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); MIDWEST USA (56%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



574 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: A Fast Franchitti, but Not That One, Takes the Helm of the DeltaWing

BYLINE: STEVEN COLE SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: The brother of the four-time IndyCar champion Dario Franchitti is testing the DeltaWing, a radical racecar prototype that may find application in the Le Mans series. 

 BODY:
BUTTONWILLOW, Calif. -- The Scottish racecar driver Marino Franchitti is, at 33, five years younger and far less known than his brother Dario Franchitti, with his four IndyCar Series championships and movie-star wife, Ashley Judd. 
But as the elder Franchitti prepares for the IndyCar series opener on March 25 in St. Petersburg, Fla., the younger is taking his turn in the spotlight.
A competitor on the Le Mans circuit and, incidentally, married to Holly Mason, daughter of Nick Mason, the drummer for Pink Floyd, Franchitti is the lead test driver for the DeltaWing, a racing machine that defies facile categorization.
From an ultra-narrow front end, with front tires that are just four inches wide, the DeltaWing flares outward to regulation racecar width, and is topped by a huge vertical fin intended to provide stability in turns. Behind Franchitti's seat is a 4-cylinder Nissan engine, adapted from the Nissan Juke. With turbocharging, the engine sends 300 horsepower through a 5-speed transmission. The unpainted charcoal carbon-fiber body and fin give the DeltaWing a Batmobile mien, as Justin Hyde noted at Motoramic.
Here, at Buttonwillow Raceway Park, about 35 miles west of Bakersfield, Franchitti spent much of the last two weeks ironing out the bugs in the DeltaWing. He and the designers have met their primary objective, in that the DeltaWing does what it was engineered to do. 
"Surprisingly lacking in drama, despite what it looks like on the outside," Franchitti said in an interview here. "It does everything properly, as it should." Franchitti appeared to fly around corners, throttle wide open though tight S-turns and with no tire squeal and no drama.
The chief designer Ben Bowlby, a 45-year-old Briton, was the head designer for the racecar company Lola. More recently he served as technical director for Chip Ganassi Racing, the team for which Franchitti's elder brother competes in IndyCar.
The American Le Mans Series showed interest in the DeltaWing program, as did the A.C.O, its European affiliate and the sanctioning body of the 24 Hours of Le Mans. There, 55 entries are accepted, with a 56th reserved for a vehicle deemed experimental but worthy of the Le Mans showcase. The 2012 spot was awarded to the DeltaWing.
Though the vehicle won't run for points or prize money, it will give the world a chance to see what Bowlby, Franchitti and the DeltaWing can do. Based on its performance at Buttonwillow, here's what it might do: embarrass the field.
With half the weight, half the horsepower and half the aerodynamic drag of top-line LMP1 cars like the Audi R18s expected to dominate the show, Mr. Bowlby says the DeltaWing should move just as quickly, with a top speed approaching 225 miles per hour. Weighing less than 1,300 pounds with Franchitti and a full load of racing gasoline, the DeltaWing should achieve significantly better fuel economy and lower brake and tire wear, requiring fewer and shorter pit stops.
Franchitti and his co-drivers will, of course, have to keep the DeltaWing running for 24 hours, which may be a challenge. It all came together rather quickly, with Nissan delivering the team's first engine just three weeks ago, and many of the vehicle's components are hand-built.
On Thursday at Sebring International Raceway, just two days before the 12 Hours of Sebring A.L.M.S. season opener, Franchitti is scheduled to make the first public laps in the DeltaWing. The team expects to continue testing there in preparation for the 24 Hours of Le Mans in June.

        
Victory, Elusive in Nascar, Finds A.J. Allmendinger in Rolex 24 at Daytona
        
Motorsports: Power Surges at Inaugural Baltimore Grand Prix
        
Monday Motorsports: Franchitti and Power Deadlocked Atop IndyCar Leader Board
        
Monday Motorsports: A Wet, Wet World for Formula One, Le Mans and British MotoGP Drivers
        
Chicago Auto Show: IndyCar of the Future?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (75%) 24 Hours of Le Mans; american le mans series; Chip Ganassi; dario franchitti; DeltaWing; Marino Franchitti; Nissan; Franchitti, Dario; Automobile Racing; Automobiles; Indy Racing League; Nissan Motor Co; California; Motorsports; Technology

ORGANIZATION: Indy Racing League; Nissan Motor Co

PERSON: Franchitti, Dario

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); INDIANA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%) California

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



575 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: March 14, 1900 | U.S. Officially Adopts Gold Standard

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK


HIGHLIGHT: On March 14, 1900, Congress ratified the Gold Standard Act, which officially ended the use of silver as a standard of United Stares currency and established gold as the only standard. 

 BODY:
On March 14, 1900, Congress ratified the Gold Standard Act, which officially ended the use of silver as a standard of United Stares currency and established gold as the only standard. The New York Times reported that President William McKinley "used a new gold pen and holder" to sign the bill.
The gold standard is a system under which a country ties the value of its currency to gold, setting a fixed price at which gold can be bought or sold by the government. The United States had since its early history used both gold and silver to value its currency, a system known as bimetallism. 
Under bimetallism, fluctuations in the value of gold and silver would cause one metal to be virtually removed from circulation for a time. A rise in the value of gold in the early 19th century made gold more valuable as a metal than as currency, prompting many Americans to have their gold coins melted down. As a result, the U.S. was virtually taken off the gold standard until 1834, when the government changed the gold-to-silver ration to about 16 to 1 from 15 to 1.

The use of silver currency declined following the California Gold Rush of the 1850s, which reduced the value of gold in relation to silver. The U.S. effectively ended its use of the silver standard in 1873 with the passage of the Fourth Coinage Act, under which the government would no longer produce silver dollars for domestic use or exchange silver at a fixed price. 
The Coinage Act -- along with the dropping of the silver standard by European countries -- contributed to the Panic of 1873, an economic depression in the U.S. and Europe. The act reduced the money supply, causing a rise in interest rates and making it difficult for banks to raise capital or pay off debts. The act also hurt silver mining companies in the West, who called the act the "Crime of '73."
In the 1880s and '90s, crop prices decreased, creating great hardship for farmers. Pro-silver advocates and Western populists argued for an increase in the money supply through the reintroduction of silver currency. The issue was at the center of the 1896 presidential election. The Democrats, who later split over the issue, nominated William Jennings Bryan, a populist, after his famous "cross of gold" speech at the convention. Bryan decried the gold standard, proclaiming, "You shall not crucify mankind upon a cross of gold."
Eastern bankers who wanted to protect against inflation favored the gold standard. Running on a pro-gold standard platform, McKinley defeated Bryan, clearing the way for the passage of the Gold Standard Act more than three years later.
The United States remained on the gold standard until 1933, when President Franklin D. Roosevelt suspended it to combat the deflation of the Great Depression. The nation continued to exchange gold internationally at a fixed price until 1971, when President Richard Nixon ended the practice.
Connect to Today:
Today, no country uses the gold standard. However, there is rising support among Americans for its reintroduction in the hope of controlling inflation. The Republican presidential candidate Ron Paul has made the gold standard a central platform of his campaign, and fellow candidate Newt Gingrich has pledged to study the issue. 
In November 2010, The Times's Room for Debate blog asked whether moving to a modified gold standard makes sense in the modern global economic climate or if it would make recovery from recession more difficult. 
What are the arguments for and against a return to the gold standard? Do you think it makes sense for the U.S. to connect its circulated currency to its gold reserve? Why or why not?
Learn more about what happened in history on March 14 
Learn more about Historic Headlines and our collaboration with findingDulcinea 

        
Feb. 17, 1972 | Nixon Departs for Diplomatic Trip to China
        
What Have You Done to Earn Money?
        
PUB-DATE: March 2, 1877
        
Feb. 24, 1868 | House Votes to Impeach President Andrew Johnson
        
The First Lady and the Lady Painted First

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COINS & COINAGE (90%); MONEY SUPPLY (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); DEFLATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); SILVER MINING (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (68%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); MINES & MINING (50%) currency; economy; Global Economics; gold; money; U.S. presidents; William McKinley; Historic Headlines

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



576 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: For 'B Corps,' a New Corporate Structure and a Triple Bottom Line

BYLINE: JESSICA BRUDER


HIGHLIGHT: Will the talk of making a better world scare off investors? 

 BODY:
A native of Australia, Prue Barrett, 36, started Agrodolce for Fast Foodies, her first company, six months ago in Brooklyn. Her goal? Package and sell slow-cooked provisions - stocks for meat and fish, chutneys, caramelized onions - that can be mixed with fresh ingredients to build fast but wholesome meals.
"I want to bring the slow food movement to busy people," Ms. Barrett explained.
As if running a new venture isn't challenging enough, Ms. Barrett also decided to do it in a new way. Last month, she filed paperwork with state officials to transform Agrodolce into a "benefit corporation." Informally known as a B Corp, this corporate structure obligates businesses to pursue a triple bottom line, which means they are accountable not only for generating profits but also for creating positive social and environmental impacts.
The B Corp structure exists "to suit the needs of entrepreneurs and investors who want to make a better world through business," said Jay Coen Gilbert, co-founder of B Labs, a non-profit based in Berwyn, Pa. that promotes legislation allowing companies to formally incorporate as benefit corporations.
New York recently became the seventh state to adopt the new corporate structure, joining California, Hawaii, Maryland, New Jersey, Vermont and Virginia. B Corp legislation is also pending in Michigan, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, and Washington, D.C.
(The name "B Corps" is cropping up elsewhere, too. Additionally - and somewhat confusingly - B Labs acts as an independent certification agency for what it calls "Certified B Corps." Any business can voluntarily pursue such certification, whether or not it has formally incorporated as a benefit corporation. Candidates for Certified B Corp status must fill out an "impact assessment" questionnaire, open themselves to the possibility of an on-site audit, and pay an annual fee to B Labs.)
So far, the cavalcade of state-recognized B Corps range from start-ups like Agrodolce to Patagonia, the outdoor clothing company. Patagonia changed its status on Jan. 3, when B Corp applications were first available in California. Legislators there have also adopted a second structure for socially conscious firms called FlexC, or "flexible purpose company," while a handful of other states have introduced a different designation, LC3, or "low-profit limited-liability company." (An excellent slideshow called "Profit and Purpose," by Kyle Westaway, an attorney and Harvard adjunct professor, reviews the differences among all of these structures.)
According to Ms. Barrett, making Agrodolce a benefit corporation was something of a no-brainer: the standards aligned with how she had planned to run her business anyway, with an emphasis on fair wages, sustainable practices and locally farmed ingredients. She also wanted to signal her customers that Agrodolce isn't all talk, that it is part of a system where adherence to such practices would be regulated. "I definitely want to make money, but I want everyone else to be all right in the process as well," she explained. "People are looking to restructure business and the economy of our society in a more equitable way."
Ms. Barrett also wants to see her company grow. So far, Agrodolce products are available online and in nine brick-and-mortar stores in Brooklyn and Manhattan; her projected revenues for this year are $400,000. To meet her long-term goals - a broader line of products with national reach - she will need funding. Will her B Corp status make that part harder?
"My initial reaction," she said, "was, Oh, wow, maybe that's going to turn potential investors off, that it is a different model, that it isn't just returns for the shareholder first. But I'm speaking to investors now and it hasn't been an issue."
She paused. "To be honest with you," she added, "it's so new. I don't think people really genuinely know how it's going to play out just yet."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANIES (70%); AUDITS (69%); LAWYERS (69%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (53%) Agrodolce for Fast Foodies; B Corp; B corporation; B Labs; FlexC; flexible purpose company; LC3; Prue Barrett; Small Business; Start-ups; Brooklyn (NYC); California; Start

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Brooklyn (NYC); California

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



577 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: A Tale of Two Resource Booms, Continued

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Resource booms are only a big deal in states with no people. 

 BODY:
Still looking for better ways to express the point that resource booms are not a serious way to create jobs in the wider economy, even if they can make a big difference in sparsely populated regions. So, two more charts.
First, the North Dakota/Pennsylvania energy booms, which really are identical in scale:
Second, a better employment comparison: indices of employment since the Great Recession began:
North Dakota has had a major employment boom, because 15,000 resource jobs are a big deal in a state with fewer than 700,000 people. Pennsylvania has not; it has done a bit better than the nation as a whole, but that probably has as much to do with the absence of a big housing bubble as with fracking.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POPULATION DENSITY (90%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); JOB CREATION (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (72%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



578 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
Bloomberg: The White House no longer reveals which wines it's serving at its state dinners. Why? -- Eric Asimov 
: The Journal takes on two major scourges: the co-workers who are making us fat with homemade goodies, birthday cakes and guilt; and the diners who make reservations then don't show up. Owners are striking back with penalty fees and nasty messages. -- Patrick Farrell
The Economist: Beef, it's what's for dinner -- but not in Taipei, thanks to the meat wars. Thousands of farmers have demonstrated in the streets there and disrupted the parliament -- as well as the prime minister's inaugural speech -- in protests against the United States, Taiwan's principal ally. The issue? Imported American beef containing ractopamine, a cattle growth-hormone banned by China and the European Union. -- Glenn Collins 
: Pipeworks is the latest brewery to open in Chicago's fast-growing craft beer scene. Among the offerings: a smoked porter aged in rye whiskey barrels from Chicago's Koval distillery. -- Robert Simonson 
: Here comes the sun: A very Californian recipe for slaw with strips of kale, chunks of avocado and a scattering of roasted almonds. -- Jeff Gordinier 
: The Brook writes about his favorite sherry bar in New York City. Salud! -- Eric Asimov
Outside: How to make your own energy bars. Don't scowl - they've got bacon in them. -- Jeff Gordinier
Eater: Following The Los Angeles Times's decision to stop awarding stars with its restaurant reviews, several other newspaper critics weigh in, mostly in favor of keeping them. Our own Pete Wells concurs. -- Patrick Farrell
Tasting Table: Beyond Red Rooster: some other cool places to go in Harlem. -- Jeff Gordinier
CountryCrock.com: A free downloadable book of 25 clever veggie recipes for kids, including Mushroom Gnomes (mini sweet peppers serve as the gnome hats), Bear Paws (sweet potato slices make the bear paw; cashews are the bear claws) and Molecular Model Brussels Sprouts (the sprouts are connected with toothpicks to look like chemistry class molecule models). -- Glenn Collins 
Food and Wine: A Tijuana taco run with the blogger Bill Esparza, who says that Southern California chefs are flocking to the much-maligned Mexican border city to find culinary adventure and inspiration. -- Jeff Gordinier 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); WINE (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); CONFECTIONERY (77%); BEEF (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); BEER & ALE (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); BREWERIES (67%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (92%); TAIWAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



579 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: Climate Change Envoy to Lead Influential Institute

BYLINE: JOHN M. BRODER


HIGHLIGHT: Andrew D. Steer, currently the World Bank's special envoy for climate change, has been named president of the World Resources Institute. 

 BODY:
The World Resources Institute, a respected and highly data-driven environmental research organization, has named a new president: Andrew D. Steer, a British-born economist and human development expert who has spent the bulk of his career at the World Bank.
Dr. Steer currently serves as the World Bank's special envoy for climate change. He previously led the bank's environment department and was its top officer for Indonesia and Vietnam. He earned his doctorate in economics at the University of Pennsylvania and also served as a top official of Britain's Department for International Development.
He is the third president to be named in the 30-year history of the World Resources Institute, a nonprofit research organization that does not engage in lobbying or political activism, like many other environmental groups. Its studies on climate change, resource use, transportation and ecosystems are widely cited. 
 The organization was established in 1982 with a $15 million grant from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation of Chicago, best known for its so-called annual genius grants. The institute's previous presidents were Gus Speth, an early environmental advocate who is now a professor of law at Vermont Law School, and Jonathan Lash, now president of Hampshire College.

 "I am deeply honored and delighted to be stepping into this role for such an extraordinary organization, with its rich history of innovative and transformative solutions to environmental and development challenges," Dr. Steer was quoted as saying in a press release. 

        
World Food Supply: What's To Be Done?
        
Deeper Peril for Coral Reefs
        
World Bank Will Help Finance Carbon Markets
        
Mapping Ecosystems, the Better to Conserve Them
        
Q. and A.: The Renewable Energy Czar

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); SCIENCE FUNDING (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); FOUNDATIONS (67%); GRANTS & GIFTS (67%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (58%) Andrew D. Steer; climate change; World Bank; World Resources Institute; Steer, Andrew D; Global Warming; Business; Politics and Policy; Research/Studies; Science

ORGANIZATION: WORLD RESOURCES INSTITUTE (94%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); JOHN D & CATHERINE T MACARTHUR FOUNDATION (54%) World Bank; World Resources Institute

PERSON: Steer, Andrew D

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%) INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



580 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Goal)

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; soccer

LENGTH: 1764 words

HEADLINE: Q&A With Portland Timbers Owner Merritt Paulson

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Questions for and answers from Merritt Paulson, the owner of the Portland Timbers of M.L.S. 

 BODY:
For Merritt Paulson, the owner of the Timbers, tall this is only one indication of soccer's arrival -- and his team's promise on the field. Paulson spoke from Portland by telephone with Jack Bell of The Times before the club's season-opener.
Q.
At the outset, I would like to ask your reaction to the spot on "Portlandia."
A.
They approached us. I thought it was great. It was obviously comedic, but I think any time you get shots of the stadium, a full stadium on a national outlet it's a positive. I was amused. We allowed them to use some of our footage. And we let their cameras in to do some shooting as well. They shot the little bit where their characters were doing the chant, the Meow chat. It didn't happen at a game, but they used members of Timbers Army to do that. They set up a casting call for members to shoot that separately.
Q.
It's seems so easy for TV shows to take shots at soccer and it seems that's what they like to do on something like "30 Rock."
A.
I think that's more the Alex Baldwin character on "30 Rock," and I take that tongue in cheek. I believe he's a fan, too. "Portlandia" handled it well, and it clearly it wasn't lampooning the city or its interest in soccer. 
Q.
How do you follow up an inaugural season in M.L.S. like the Timbers had last year?
A.
One way is we go out and get a guy like Kris Boyd [who scored a goal Monday night]. It was a strange deal, quite unusual in that it happened very quickly. How it works in the single entity with M.L.S. is that Houston had discovery rights on Kris. He's 28, not old by any means. He has the most goals all-time in the Scottish Premier League with Rangers, but had gone to Turkey for huge money. The team was unable to pay him, which is kind of ironic when you look at the position Rangers are in right now. It think he played in only two games last season, a waste. He didn't want to sign with Houston due to the weather, that's my understanding. He was probably going to go to Liverpool. The transfer window was closing and we had a short time to get the rights from Houston and do a deal with Kris. It was a week-long sprint. [Timbers Coach John] Spencer is the brother-in-law of Billy Davies, who coached Nottingham Forest and had coached the guy. John knew Kris had played for Billy. And when we were doing our due diligence, we decided is this a guy we want to put out big money for. We didn't need to scout the guy that much. It was about character and leadership.
Last year we got [Diego] Charra, which was a four- or five-month process. He's only 25 and a box-to-box midfielder. We now have five players from Colombia. Charra's a D.P. who we bought at a substantial number. 
Q.
What kind of calculus do you use when looking at a designated player and how do you think it's been done around the league?
A.
We're at a point in time where I would say ... when there was a time when a lot of teams thought as much about the marketing value of a player as what the player brought to the team, in terms of making the team better on the field. At this point in time when looking at designated players, many are younger and might not have household names yet, but they bring a heck of a lot of quality. The focus has been on the M.L.S. Cup winning team, with [David] Beckham, Landon Donovan and Robbie Keane. The Galaxy are unique. It worked for them. It brought a lot of quality on to the field and to marketing. Now, I think, there's a bit of a move and focus toward the product on the field. There's a sophisticated soccer audience here, the league is at a totally different point right now, growing the last 17 years. I tell people -- and it's not hyperbole -- that I don't know of a sports property in the world that has the growth potential that M.L.S. has. We've reached a tipping point in the United States and it's really exciting to be part of it.
I'm in the nexus, the hub of that in the Pacific Northwest. There's a rabid soccer following now around the league. Look at Houston, they've sold 10,000 season tickets. Kansas City and Philadelphia just keep picking up. Montreal will be successful. There's been a lot of growth and Don Garber and the rest of ownership have been careful in managing, spending and building for the long term. But now the real priority is to get the level of play up, and make this the best league in the Western Hemisphere and one of the best leagues in the world.
Q.
Last year, you had about 2,000 seats that were covered with a tarp, with obstructed views I believe. You opened them up for this season increasing potential attendance to about 20,000. What went into those decisions?
A.
We opened all the seats in North End, and have very few that are tarped. We have 7,000 people on our waiting list for season tickets. If we had 25,000 seats we would be sold out every game. We're costing ourselves money with seats covered with tarps. But we worry about the fan experience if things are too congested in the concourses. We built out the east side of the facility and it's fairly open. But we're dealing with a 1926 structure with narrow concourses. That's why the tarp was there. At halftime it is a bit tight on the concourses, but it's manageable now. Last year we were at roughly 18,000 a game, this year it's 20,300. Another 1,500-2,000 seats are still covered. We'll see how it goes.
Q.
With all the support and success, were you tempted to raise ticket prices?
A.
We kept over 80 percent of season tickets at the same prices. We did raise prices on single-game tickets. It's a long-term thing for me. Even with all success last year, an exciting team that narrowly missed the playoffs, I didn't feel right going crazy with season ticket prices.
Q.
The Timbers' success is undeniable. But now looking back, do you ever second-guess yourself about renovating an older stadium in the downtown area as opposed to trying to build something new, perhaps outside the city?
A.
We never would have been able to do a new stadium in the heart of city. What we got is a terrific facility. Renovation made a facility that had been a jack of many trades and master of none into a unique, high-quality soccer stadium. Of course in a new stadium we would have wider concourses, some more seats, probably. That said, to be in heart of the city on the west side, with light rail everywhere, that's something I wouldn't trade for all the tea in China. If you build me a Livestrong Sporting Park in Hillsboro, about 20 minutes outside Portland, I wouldn't take the trade.
Q.
There has been so much talk about a second team in the New York area. Only last week Don Garber spent a lot of time addressing it in a conference call. Where do you come down on the matter?
A.
We're all in this together. We all have an interest in getting expansion right. I do think about New York and expansion like every other owner. I appreciate the league's cautious approach -- they know how important it is. It's been a three-pronged decision: the market, stadium and ownership. Getting the stadium right in New York is going to be essential. And I know how many sites Don and the league have been looking at, it's a big decision. And there's a lot of interest elsewhere around the country.
I think I'd share the commissioner's view that New York makes sense on a lot of levels, but we've got to get it right. That means getting the facility right. From a league perspective there are few things as important as getting expansion right. I think the league has done a great job. A second team in New York in the right stadium makes all the sense in the world.
Q.
So you didn't increase ticket prices. But where do you hope to increase revenue?
A.
One of things that have been most heartening to me, we've set a record for sponsors' revenue for an expansion team in M.L.S. and we're up 15 percent this year over last year. People get what a unique platform this is. It resonates despite the difficult economy. We had 98 percent retention of season-ticket holders and 93 percent of sponsors. So those are really strong numbers. They get that we're a first-year team coming off a terrific year and that this is a really great platform. We're building out our catering business, camps and hosting other events at the stadium. We're taking a conservative approach relative to ticket pricing. In the current market conditions it's important to have tickets that offer a great value. Mostly the business has obviously surpassed expectations.
Q.
Did you make money last year? And if not, will you this year?
A.
We are cash-flow positive, and in this world it is a terrific thing. We put a lot of money into it, not just the team, renovating the stadium. It might be a long time to say we made a profit. If you look at the money between the cost of team, the extra millions put into the stadium and practice facility -- on an operating level we were profitable.
There are a lot more teams that are now cash-flow positive. A fair number of teams are losing money, but now they're not losing a lot of money. From sports standpoint not many leagues can say that.
Q.
Where do you think the league and the game are going in the U.S. and North America?
A.
I think we've got more growth and blue skies ahead than any other league. Where we were and where we are -- the league is growing and will become increasing relevant in a country of soccer fans. For fans, this is turning into a league that's their home league. I'm not going to fall into the trap of saying we're going to overtake X or Y sport. It's not about that. There's plenty of room at the table. But there's a lot more growth ahead of Major League Soccer than most of the mature leagues. We're relevant now and we're going to get more [relevant].
Q.
The league is in the first year of a new TV deal with NBC. You've got good exposure on other networks and online, but for TV, the ratings don't seem to be following the availability and the interest of fans. Are those low ratings a concern? Is there a disconnect?
A.
There's a ratings issue for every league when look at what media world is today. There's increasing fragmentation, and it's not like ratings are going up across the board for any type of programming. We're making sure there's variety on TV and online. We're making sure we're hitting more eyeballs.
An earlier version of this post misstated the name of the home of the Portland Timbers as Jen-Weld Field and misspelled Hillsboro, Ore., as Hillsborough. 

        
Northwest Rivals Barely Separable on and Off the Field
        
M.L.S. Commissioner: Looking Back, Looking Ahead
        
M.L.S. Week 1: Oh Canada, Oui
        
M.L.S. Preview: Five Questions for the Red Bulls
        
Depth Makes Vancouver a Dark Horse in M.L.S.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); WEATHER (63%) M.L.S.; Merritt Paulson; Portland Timbers

PERSON: ALEC BALDWIN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%) OREGON, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); SCOTLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2012



581 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The New Old Age)

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: The Future: No Lattes, No Movies

BYLINE: PAULA SPAN


HIGHLIGHT: The Elder Index tells you how much is needed to pay for basic needs in a given region. 

 BODY:
Thanks to the Elder Index, I now know that if I were a single adult over age 65 in good but not excellent health, renting a one-bedroom apartment in Essex County, N.J. -- where I actually do live, and where in a few years I will most likely be that reasonably healthy old person -- I would have to pay $28,200 a year to meet my basic needs.
Very basic. "That doesn't include any frills," said Shawn McMahon, research manager at Wider Opportunities for Women, the nonprofit organization that constructed this national database. "No entertainment, no travel, no gifts. No lattes."
But the tool, available at basiceconomicsecurity.org, does include the costs of housing, transportation, health care (including supplemental insurance), food and transportation -- all information taken from government sources.
Housing is the biggest variable. The index provides estimates for renters, homeowners with and without mortgages, individuals and couples, using data from the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Census Bureau. The rest of the numbers come from the federal Department of Agriculture, the Highway Administration, the Bureau of Labor Statistics and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, along with the private insurer Genworth. The index includes income from all sources but assumes no public help, like food stamps or subsidized housing.
(A separate index on the site measures living costs for working families.)
The costs of even a basic, but secure, life vary greatly by region, of course. I spent some time sighing over how much less I would need if I were to rent that one-bedroom apartment in Austin ($20,748) or in either of the Portlands, one in Cumberland County, Me. ($25,368), the other in Multnomah County, Ore. ($23,400).
But New Jersey, according to a Wider Opportunities analysis, is one of the states with the widest gap between elders' median income and the cost of that basic-but-secure life. Here, median income is only 72 percent of the cost for a single renter, slightly better for a homeowner who's paid off her house, much worse for one who hasn't yet.
The states with the greatest gaps are those with high costs of living or low incomes: Massachusetts, the District of Columbia, New York, Mississippi, Maine, Vermont and Louisiana. In each, the median income is less than 70 percent of the cost of living. And of course, by definition, median means that half the senior population makes less than the adequate amount and is in poverty or in danger of sliding into it.
That, of course, is the reason Wider Opportunities, which lobbies for economic security and for the government programs that help shore it up, went to the trouble of gathering all this county-by-county data. (It worked with the Gerontology Institute at the University of Massachusetts Boston.) In every state, the median income remains insufficient for an older person to live securely and independently, though Arizona, Michigan, Utah, Montana and Alaska come close.
For years, researchers have protested that the official federal poverty level is an outmoded statistic that fails to account for regional differences, varying medical costs and a host of other factors. So in November, the Census Bureau released its eye-opening Supplemental Poverty Measure, an updated and broader assessment that nonetheless is not used for official purposes, like determining program eligibility.
Under the old standard, 9 percent of the over-65 population lives in poverty. The supplemental measure hikes that estimate to nearly 16 percent. Yet the Elder Index shows how many more older adults balance on the brink, even if they're not officially poor.
Dr. McMahon and his team will continue to use this database to analyze older Americans' financial situations. Next up: reports on the effects of gender and race. I'll pass some of these along.
Meanwhile, I'm looking hard at Saginaw, Mich.

        
Prices of Brand Name Drugs Rose Steeply, AARP Study Finds
        
When the Assisted-Living Bill Balloons
        
Living Together, Aging Together
        
Old Age in America, by the Numbers
        
Overlooking the Frail Years

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AGING (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COST OF LIVING (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (87%); SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); GERONTOLOGY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); AGING TRENDS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); MEDICARE (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); INSURANCE (74%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); MEDICAID (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); FAMILY (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); STATISTICS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); TRENDS (71%); CENSUS (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); CITIES (52%) costs; Housing; Economic Conditions and Trends; Elder Care; Finances & Legalities

ORGANIZATION: WIDER OPPORTUNITIES FOR WOMEN (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



582 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: A Jobs Bill That Will Provide Help, but for All the Wrong People

BYLINE: JESSE EISINGER


HIGHLIGHT: The Jump-Start Our Business Start-Ups Act will bring much-needed help to some of those hardest hit by the economic downturn: Wall Street analysts, short-sellers and lobbyists. 

 BODY:
Finally, the House passed a jobs bill last week. And what a bill it is!
Officially called the Jump-Start Our Business Start-Ups Act, it calls for reopening our capital markets to exciting new start-ups by ridding protections for investors and stripping away disclosure requirements for smaller companies.
JOBS has been repeatedlyassailed, but it will bring much-needed help to some of the harder hit sectors of the economy.
John Coffee, a Columbia Law professor, has hailed the bill as "the boiler room legalization act." And rightly so. Boiler room operations were one of the unsung job creators of the 1990s, producing some of America's greatest penny stocks and boom times for yacht makers and coke dealers.
But these small, hard-working firms have run into hard times. Areas of Long Island and Boca Raton, Fla., still have not recovered since the heyday of the Nasdaq. How long must a lost generation of Lamborghini-loving 20-somethings suffer while their talents for talking quickly go to waste?
Congress is on the case, with Democrats and Republicans working together at last. It's not just the House. The Senate is expected to pass a similar bill this week.
Since the technology stock blowup, the accounting scandals at Enron and WorldCom and the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, investors have been needlessly wary of putting their savings into fledgling companies offered by Wall Street banks.
The JOBS bill fixes that. Taking advantage of the revolutionary possibilities of the Internet, the bill loosens decades-old investor protections so that companies can directly advertise to those who would like to be separated from their money. It does that by giving broad exemptions for start-ups that want to "crowdfund" by raising small amounts of money over the Internet. I.P.O. pitches next to "Lose Your Belly!" ads. Sounds like a great idea!
Nigeria shouldn't be the only country to benefit from the Web. Right here in America, the elderly are increasingly attractive to a variety of entrepreneurial spirits. If JOBS becomes the law, such innovators could flourish.
Let's not forget Wall Street analysts. Once, men and women could make a good living by stamping glowing ratings on companies offering stock to the public for the first time, even if they secretly believed those companies were dogs. You could even become famous, like Jack Grubman or Henry Blodget.
Ever since the cleanup back then by the New York State attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, analysts have lost some luster. With JOBS enacted, Wall Street analysts will once again be able to shill for the companies that their own investment banks are shepherding through the initial public offering process.
And then there are the short-sellers, the type of investor who ferrets out the overvalued companies, the hype stories and stock frauds.
It's been about a year now since Chinese reverse-merger companies collapsed. In that scandal, dozens of those small Chinese companies went public in the United States without having to run the gantlet of the Securities and Exchange Commission's registration rules.
After they blew up by the boatload, the S.E.C. cracked down and tightened its rules.
Since then, short-sellers' pickings have been slim. By allowing newly public small companies to refrain from disclosing financial information for years, the bill will provide new targets for short-selling hedge funds.
Clearly, the many critics of the law underestimate what a boon this will be. Sure, it would be better not to have the scams in the first place. But now short-sellers will now be able to use their talents to uncover fraud that might not have occurred without JOBS. Capital will pour into this sector of the economy.
Finally, one shouldn't underestimate how tough things have been for lobbyists promoting financial deregulation. Not in finding work, of course. Legions of civic-minded lawyers have found gainful employment helping banks desperately fight the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul.
But these people have suffered no end of social embarrassment. When they go to cocktail parties and say their job is to protect banks from regulations that hurt America, people have been known to laugh.
Now, the lobbyists can point out that even the White House agrees. The Obama administration has backed JOBS and is on the same page as the banks when it comes to the message: safe, tightly regulated capital markets don't instill confidence in investors, but rather stifle ingenuity and creativity. Expect these same arguments to come up again in the push to revise Dodd-Frank. That's change we can believe in.
And, anyway, trust and confidence are overrated. Wild West markets are more thrilling. If Americans thought otherwise, Las Vegas casinos would have the buy-and-hold room next to the roulette wheels.
Then again, for entertainment, our capital markets just cannot compete with Congress.

        
At Diamond Foods, Accounting Weighs on Pringles Deal
        
UBS Fined $12 Million Over Short-Selling

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STARTUPS (95%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JOB CREATION (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); ACCOUNTING (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); SCANDALS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (65%); CROWDSOURCING (64%); BOAT BUILDING (54%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) boiler rooms; Jump-Start Our Business Start-Ups Act; Short Selling; Banking and Financial Institutions; Law and Legislation; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Start-ups; House of Representatives; Senate; Legal/Regulatory; The Trade

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Senate

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012



583 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Before Applying to U.S. Colleges, Indian Students Should Be Able to Answer 'Why?'

BYLINE: LATHA RAMCHAND


HIGHLIGHT: A native of India who is now a university dean in the United States lists some basic questions prospective applicants to American colleges and universities should be able to answer. 

 BODY:
Today, with more than 170 universities and 6,000 affiliated colleges, the number of universities in India offering undergraduate and graduate degrees has grown, and continues to do so. Despite this, the average Indian teenager applying to college now continues (in the absence of financial and other constraints), to list the United States as the destination of first choice. While the Indian brain drain of the '70s was confined to students from the Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT) arriving on U.S. shores in search of master's and doctoral degrees in engineering and business, today's brain drain would include younger students seeking to earn undergraduate degrees.
After attending the University of Mumbai, I myself came to the U.S. in the '80s as an Indian student, seeking a graduate degree in business. I attended the Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University where I graduated with a Ph.D. in finance, and am now the dean of the largest business school in Houston, the C.T. Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston. International students at the university make up 8.4 percent of our student body. Nearly 800 of our students are from India. 
I often find myself talking to students, prospective students and parents about what they might want to consider before filling out that application form or considering that foreign degree. Among the questions I ask them are some that readers of this blog may find helpful. These include:
Why do you want to come here?
This tends to be the first question I like to ask. Certainly, the pursuit of knowledge is an end in itself, and degrees never hurt. It is useful, however, to think about a longer-term goal even before you decide to apply. Are you coming here "just because"? Or are you coming with the goal of returning to India so you can put your skills to work in an emerging economy? Perhaps you are coming here with the goal of settling down in the U.S. because your cousins live here and everything you hear about making the country your home is wonderful. The answer to these questions will and must have an impact on the colleges to which you choose to apply. 
Are you comfortable with the idea of a new home for the next four years?
While the degree may be your end goal, it is important to remember that you are moving to a different country where the protection afforded by your parents, your friends and all the domestic help you may have received growing up, may not be available. This can be a big regime shift, especially for students coming from economically advantaged backgrounds where the Indian lifestyle with a chauffeur, cook and maids is light-years away from dorm-room reality. That this is not an idle concern is borne out by the fact that more students from India are coming to earn an undergraduate degree, for which the possibility of receiving financial aid or scholarships for non-residents is very slim when compared with graduate school, where research and teaching assistantships are more common. I have seen students, unprepared to deal with this reality, having to return to India after their first semester. Unless you know what your long-term goal is, the sacrifice may not be worthwhile. 
Have you considered "the livability index" of the university you are applying to?
What is the climate like? "Cold" and "chilly" might mean 60 degrees Fahrenheit for a student from Bangalore, but cold in Boston or Chicago means something else. While most large cities have good Indian restaurants, smaller towns may not. Food choices may seem secondary compared to the application form. But we are creatures of habit, and having an affordable local Indian restaurant can substantially impact what I call "the happiness index." This index varies directly, in my opinion, with grades on quizzes and end-of-semester exams. Does the city offer public transportation? How can you get around campus without a car? Do you have friends or family that can drive you to the grocery store or the clinic should an emergency arise? Some universities like the University of Houston set up an "India Desk" at certain times of the year so students applying for admission can "chat" with other Indian students that are currently on campus. The service is free except for the cost of the call and is definitely worth it. If you know your long-term goal, you can evaluate the pros and cons before you decide where to apply.
In short, do your homework. It used to be (and is probably still the case) that Indian students applied largely to the Ivy League schools. While this is not a bad decision, I believe that the range and breadth of institutions of higher learning in the U.S. is what makes a U.S. degree so appealing. Like everything else in America, your choices are vast, and customization is possible. You can decide, for instance, to major in journalism with a minor in music, or major in history as a pre-med student (going on to become a physician), or major in bio-chemistry with an entrepreneurship minor. The choices are endless, and your end goal can, and must, inform the choice of institution to which you decide to apply.
Ask yourself, why do you want to be here? If you do not have a clear answer to that question, delay sending in that application form.

        
Experts Share Tips for International Students Unable to Visit College Campuses
        
For International Students, a College Admissions Checklist for April
        
For International Students, a College Admissions Checklist for March
        
An Indian Student's Guide to the SAT and ACT Admissions Exams
        
Tips on American College Admissions Essays, From a Veteran Dean

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (93%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (92%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (91%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%) The Choice on India Ink; Colleges and Universities; Foreign Students (in US); Indian Institutes of Technology; University of Houston; India

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON (91%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (56%) Indian Institutes of Technology; University of Houston

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (58%) INDIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (58%) India

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2012



584 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: India's Billionaires Hit by Weak Economy

BYLINE: NEHA THIRANI


HIGHLIGHT: Indians worth $1 billion or more fall to 48, from 55 last year. 

 BODY:
The number of Indian billionaires fell substantially in the past year, according to Forbes magazine's recently released list of the world's billionaires, while the numbers in emerging market rival Brazil rose dramatically. Increased transparency in Brazil and a slowing economy in India have contributed to this shift.
There are 48 Indians in the Forbes list, with a net worth of $ 194.6 billion. That compares to the previous year, when the Forbes list featured 55 billionaires from India with a net worth of $246.5 billion. Mukesh Ambani continues to be India's wealthiest individual, despite losing $4.7 billion in the past year, coming in 19th in the global ranking with a net worth of $22.3 billion. His brother Anil Ambani, on the other hand, is listed in the 118th position, with a net worth of $7.8 billion, down a billion dollars from 2011. In 1994, the Ambani family were included in the Forbes list for the first time.
Azim Premji, the 66-year-old Wipro chairman, is ranked 41st, making him the third-richest Indian on the Forbes list. Mr. Premji has a net worth of $15.9 billion.
Indians were not the only ones whose net worth sank in the 2012 Forbes rankings; more than a third of all the billionaires internationally experienced a drop in their net worth.
Steel mogul Lakshmi Mittal suffered the biggest loss of all the world's billionaires in the list, as his fortune dropped by $10.4 billion, to $20.7 billion. Mr. Mittal took the second spot among Indians, finishing 21st on the ranking, the first time since 2004 that he did make it to the world's top ten. According to Forbes the drop was caused by a fall in the shares of ArcelorMittal, thanks to surging costs and sluggish demand in Europe.
Brothers Shashi and Ravi Ruia of the Essar Group sustained the second largest loss of the year, losing $8.8 billion according to Forbes. They were placed 133 on the rankings, with a net worth of $7 billion.
Other Indians who made it to the rankings include Kumar Birla, chairman of the Aditya Birla Group (116th), chairman of Sun Pharmaceuticals Dilip Shanghvi (124), Bharti Enterprises Chairman Sunil Mittal and family (113th) and DLF's Kushal Pal Singh (153rd).
The list featured only two women billionaires from India; Savitri Jindal of the Jindal group, who was ranked 80th and Indu Jain of the Bennet Coleman group, ranked 578th.
When Forbes began to put together its list of the world's billionaires in 1987, there were 140 names on the list, 44 of which were from the United States.
This year, the list is up to a record 1,226 with the U.S. still leading the list with 425 billionaires. The 2012 list has billionaires from 58 countries, including new addition Morocco. The total net worth of the billionaires listed by Forbes is $4.6 trillion, an increase of $100 billion from 2011. Mexico's Carlos Slim retains his position at the top of the rankings with a fortune estimated at $69 billion. Brazilian oil magnate Eike Batista, currently placed at No. 7, vows to one day overtake him.
In the 2011 Forbes list, the BRIC nations were home to 25 percent of the world's billionaires. In this year's list, India, China and Russia collectively have 30 fewer billionaires, with Brazil being the only nation to see an increase in its numbers. While India lost seven billionaires in comparison to 2011, Brazil saw an increase of six new billionaires, bringing the countries tally to 36.
Among the newly ranked billionaires in Brazil is Nevaldo Rocha, who built his fortune in the apparel industry with his company Guararapes Confeccoes. Jose Isaac Peres joins the list because of a rise in the value of his stake in the shopping mall developer Multiplan while Francisco Dias Branco controls cookie and pasta maker M. Dias Branco and owns $1 billion worth of real estate.
One of factors that added billionaires from Brazil to the list is increased transparency in the country. Brazil has recently enacted stricter disclosure regulations for the ownership of publicly traded companies. Officials at Forbes say that there is a good chance that they will unearth more billionaires in Brazil in the coming years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (97%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TRENDS (78%); RANKINGS (74%) Ambani, Anil D; Ambani, Mukesh D; Batista, Eike; Premji, Azim H; Economic Conditions and Trends; ArcelorMittal S.A; Bharti Enterprises; Forbes Magazine; Wipro Ltd; Brazil; India; ArcelorMittal S.A|MT|NYSE; Wipro Ltd|WIT|NYSE

COMPANY: ARCELORMITTAL SA (82%); BHARTI ENTERPRISES LTD (63%); ESSAR GLOBAL LTD (58%); ADITYA BIRLA GROUP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ArcelorMittal S.A; Bharti Enterprises; Forbes Magazine; Wipro Ltd

TICKER: MTS (MCE) (82%); MT (PAR) (82%); MT (NYSE) (82%); MT (AMS) (82%) ArcelorMittal S.A; MT; NYSE; ArcelorMittal S.A; MT; NYSE; Wipro Ltd; WIT; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (82%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (63%); SIC4822 TELEGRAPH & OTHER MESSAGE COMMUNICATIONS (63%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (63%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (63%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%)

PERSON: ANIL AMBANI (91%); MUKESH AMBANI (91%); EIKE BATISTA (73%); KUMAR BIRLA (58%); LAKSHMI N MITTAL (58%) Ambani, Anil D; Ambani, Mukesh D; Batista, Eike; Premji, Azim H

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (95%); INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (73%) Brazil; India

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



585 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2467 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
Goldman Executive Resigns via Public Letter | In a frank opinion column for The New York Times, Greg Smith, a Goldman Sachs executive, explained on Wednesday why he was resigning from the firm.
Mr. Smith, who was head of Goldman's United States equity derivatives business in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, said clients' interests were sidelined in how the firm operated and thought about making money. Mr. Smith placed the blame for this cultural change on top management, including Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, and its president, Gary D. Cohn.
"I truly believe that this decline in the firm's moral fiber represents the single most serious threat to its long-run survival. It astounds me how little senior management gets a basic truth: If clients don't trust you they will eventually stop doing business with you. It doesn't matter how smart you are," Mr. Smith wrote.
"Without clients you will not make money. In fact, you will not exist. Weed out the morally bankrupt people, no matter how much money they make for the firm. And get the culture right again, so people want to work here for the right reasons," he continued.
DealBook 

        
Greg Smith Laments a 'Toxic' Culture | "I can honestly say that the environment now is as toxic and destructive as I have ever seen it," Mr. Smith wrote in his column explaining why he is resigning from Goldman Sachs. "It makes me ill how callously people talk about ripping their clients off."
NEW YORK TIMES
        
Public Resignation Hits a Shaken Industry | Greg Smith is saying publicly what others on Wall Street dare to say only privately, The New York Times writes.
NEW YORK TIMES
DEAL NOTES
Blankfein Spotted at Theater Benefit | Lloyd C. Blankfein and Gary D. Cohn, leaders of Goldman Sachs, attended a benefit event for the Roundabout Theatre Company, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
The Tax Man Cometh for a Former Lehman Banker | The home of Bradley H. Jack, the former Lehman Brothers banking chief who has been arrested twice for allegedly forging drug prescriptions, may be sold at auction after he failed to pay property taxes. Bloomberg News reports Mr. Jack owes $271,923 on his 20-acre waterfront house in Fairfield, Conn.
DealBook 
Nasdaq Closes Above 3,000 | The index reached a level not seen since the era of the dot-com bubble.
NEW YORK TIMES
Amish Financier Expected to Plead Guilty | Monroe L. Beachy, a respected financial figure in an Amish community in Ohio who has been accused of running a Ponzi scheme, intends to plead guilty, his lawyer said, according to the Associated Press. 
ASSOCIATED PRESS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Alpha Bank of Greece May Pull Out of Merger with Eurobank | Alpha Bank of Greece is to propose pulling out of a planned merger with a local rival, Eurobank, because of the effect of the country's bond swap deal on the banks.
DealBook 
Benihana May Serve Up a Deal | Benihana, the restaurant chain known for its dramatic displays of Japanese cooking, said on Tuesday that it had hired Jefferies & Company to advise on a potential sale of the company.
DealBook 
Dell to Buy Security Services Provider for $1.25 Billion | In an effort to expand its corporate services offerings, Dell agreed to buy SonicWall, a provider of network and data security services for a wide array of corporations, in a deal that is said to be worth about $1.25 billion.
DealBook 
Morgan Stanley Eyes Municipal Parking System | The firm is among potential bidders that have expressed interest in buying or leasing the parking system of Harrisburg, Pa., a city that has struggled under a mountain of debt, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Glencore's Potential Bid for Viterra May Face Challenges | With speculation that Glencore may bid up to $5 billion for the Canadian grain trader Viterra, analysts question whether now is the right time for a potential takeover.
DealBook 
BB&T Restructures BankAtlantic Deal | The BB&T Corporation has retooled its planned takeover of BankAtlantic in an attempt to appease a judge who previously blocked the deal for the beleaguered Florida bank.
DealBook 
In Russia, a Clash Over a Metals Giant | Viktor F. Vekselberg, who has a 16 percent stake in the Russian aluminum company Rusal, resigned as chairman on Tuesday after saying in an open letter to the board that the company had fallen into a "deep crisis," The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Most Big Banks Pass Fed's Capital Stress Tests | The Federal Reserve said 15 of 19 could weather a sharp downturn, but the industry's recovery is uneven. While firms like JPMorgan Chase can raise their dividends and buy back shares, others including Citigroup and Ally Financial remain on shaky ground.
DealBook 
Scorecard: Bank Stocks After the Stress Tests | How the stocks of several bank holding companies fared after the Federal Reserve's stress test results were released.
DealBook 
Goldman Hires a New P.R. Chief | Richard Siewert Jr., the former counselor to Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, will lead the public relations effort at Goldman Sachs, replacing Lucas van Praag.
DealBook 
Nomura Said to Plan Job Cuts | The Japanese firm is cutting about 30 managers from its fixed income unit, Bloomberg News reports, citing an unnamed person briefed on the matter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
More Brokers Leave Merrill Lynch | Since Jan. 1, at least 50 advisers who managed almost $12 billion in client assets have left Merrill Lynch, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Lloyds and R.B.S. Detail Job Cuts | Lloyds, which is about 40 percent owned by the British government, said it would cut 1,600 jobs as part of a plan announced last year; the Royal Bank of Scotland, 82 percent owned by the government, said it was cutting a net of about 300 jobs, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Citigroup's Trapped Assets | The bank has nearly $52 billion of deferred-tax assets on its balance sheet, which it can only take advantage of when it generates about $111 billion in taxable income, The Wall Street Journal's Heard on the Street column writes.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Credit Card Company to Buy Back Stock | Discover Financial Services, the credit card issuer, said it plans to buy back up to $2 billion in stock over the next two years, the Associated Press reports.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Bain Defends Itself Amid Attacks on Romney | Bain Capital has tried to distance itself from the Romney campaign, and the political scrutiny that comes with the election race.
DealBook 
In Private Equity I.P.O., a Shareholder Fear of Losing Favor | The Carlyle Group appears to be struggling to sell its initial public offering to investors, who have reason to be gun-shy based on past experience with other private equity firms, the Deal Professor writes.
Deal Professor 
Blackstone Prepares for Battle in Germany | The Blackstone Group is squaring off with Oaktree Capital Management, the Bank of Ireland and GE Capital for control of Klockner Pentaplast, a German plastic-film maker that the buyout shop bought in 2007, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
JPMorgan Said to Abandon Real Estate Fund | The bank has given up its effort to raise a $750 million real estate fund, known as Junius Real Estate Partners, due to a lack of investor interest, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the matter.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Justice Department Examines Buyout Fund | A fund once run by Oppenheimer Holdings is being investigated by the Department of Justice, after the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Massachusetts attorney general were said to be looking into whether it overstated the value of a portfolio company, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Buyout Firms Look to Indonesia | Private equity firms including K.K.R., the Starwood Capital Group, and Northstar Pacific Partners are scouting for opportunities in a country that once was considered a backwater, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Apollo to Acquire Water Park Operator for $703 Million | Apollo Global Management will buy Great Wolf Resorts, the nation's largest indoor water park operator, for $703 million, as the private equity firm pushes further into the hospitality and leisure industry.
DealBook 
HEDGE FUNDS 
It Was a Good Year for Hedge Fund Start-Ups | The number of new funds created last year was the highest since 2007, Reuters reports. The industry as a whole, though, didn't fare so well.
REUTERS
Och Sued by Former Employee | Arnaud Achache, who formerly was a limited partner in the operating groups of Och-Ziff Capital Management, accused Daniel S. Och of improperly forcing him out, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Ray Dalio's Former Assistant Tells All | In a little-noticed blog post, a former personal assistant to Ray Dalio reveals stories about the Croc-wearing, paintball-shooting billionaire who founded Bridgewater Associates.
DealBook 
The High Cost of Insider Trading | Rates are up 5 to 10 percent this year for hedge funds insuring themselves against fraud or insider trading litigation, amid the government's widespread crackdown.
DealBook 
Paulson Banking Analyst to Start Fund | Even as Paulson & Company bled money last year, with returns in one fund sinking more than 50 percent, turnover was relatively rare at the $23 billion firm. But now, the analyst in charge of the firm's banking bets is departing to start his own hedge fund, leaving a mixed record in his wake.
DealBook 
Hedge Fund Wins Lawsuit Against Shipbuilder | Monarch Alternative Capital said it won a $72 million legal claim against Drydocks World, of Dubai, for defaulting on a loan, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Man Group to Start Commodity Fund | The British firm is starting a computer-driven fund to invest in commodities, with a capacity for $5 billion of client money, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Zynga's Plan to Alter Lockup Period | Zynga is planning a secondary offering of shares, to allow existing investors to sell stock while getting larger shareholders to agree to hold their stock for a longer period of time, Bloomberg News reports, citing unnamed people familiar with the matter.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Chinese Firms Counter a Whiff of Scandal | Chinese companies hoping to list in London will have to show that their corporate governance is adequate, with investors gun-shy after a series of scandals, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Regions to Sell $900 Million of Stock | The Regions Financial Corporation said it would use the proceeds from the stock sale to help repay its taxpayer bailout, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
German Insurer Moves Toward I.P.O. | Hannover Re said that Talanx, the German insurer that is its majority shareholder, could go public, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Legal Questions Dog Pinterest | The popular scrapbooking site faces questions about whether users are allowed to post photos that they do not have rights to, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
S.E.C. Said to Investigate Another Private Brokerage Firm | The Securities and Exchange Commission is examining possible pricing discrepancies at EB Exchange Funds, which facilitates trades in private-company shares, Fortune reports, citing an unnamed person familiar with the situation.
FORTUNE
SJF Ventures Unveils New Fund | The venture capital firm, based in Durham, said it is "well on its way" toward a $75 million target for its third fund, Durham's Herald Sun newspaper reports.
HERALD SUN
Investment Network Raises $15 Million | A start-up, eToro, that lets users track each others' trades raised a round of funding led by Spark Capital, TechCrunch reports.
TECHCRUNCH
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Insider Trading Charges Center on Alcoholics Anonymous Meetings | Federal regulators charged a money manager with trading on confidential information about the acquisition of a Philadelphia-based insurance company passed to him by an executive at the insurer.
DealBook 
S.E.C. Charges Three Former Mortgage Executives With Fraud | The agency says former executives at Thornburg Mortgage, once the nation's second-largest mortgage company after Countrywide Financial, hid the company's deteriorating financial condition at the onset of the financial crisis in 2008.
DealBook 
Goldman Sachs Unit Is Fined by Regulator | Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing agreed to pay a $5.5 million penalty and give up $1.5 million in fees and commissions to settle charge with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
DealBook 
Banks Agree to Payment in New York Mortgage Case | Five big banks have agreed to pay $25 million to partially settle a New York State lawsuit over their use of the Mortgage Electronic Registration System, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Bundesbank Profit Falls on Debt Crisis Provisions | Germany's central bank said profit last year fell 71 percent to 642 million euros, or $841.8 million, from 2.2 billion euros a year earlier, as it set aside more money to shield against the Continent's debt crisis, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Fed Offers a Touch of Optimism on the Economy | While the central bank said it would continue its efforts to stimulate the economy, its dour report noted that the improving job market and increased spending were cause for some optimism, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Next World Bank Leader Expected to Be American | While the White House has not yet announced its nominee to head the World Bank, administration officials said they would pick an American, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
British Regulator Fines Credit Suisse Executive | The Financial Services Authority has fined Nicholas Kyprios, head of European credit sales at Credit Suisse, for disclosing confidential client information, the latest in a number of prominent actions by the British regulator.
DealBook 
Britain Said to Consider Super-Long Bonds | The British government might begin to sell 100-year and even perpetual bonds, which never mature, in an effort to take advantage of low rates, Reuters reports, citing unnamed Treasury people.
REUTERS
Grocer Emerges From Bankruptcy | The Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company, known for its A&P grocery store chain, is now a private company with new management, the Associated Press reports.
ASSOCIATED PRESS
Trade Case Against China May Have Little Impact | As China solidifies its dominance in the rare earth metals industry, a trade case that the United States, the European Union and Japan jointly filed against the country may end up being too little too late, industry specialists said, according to The New York Times.
NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MERGERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); STOCK INDEXES (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); PROPERTY TAX (66%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (65%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (65%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (65%); THEATER COMPANIES (62%); THEATER (62%); THEATER & DRAMA (62%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (60%); GUILTY PLEAS (60%); ARRESTS (60%); PONZI SCHEMES (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (85%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (75%); EUROBANCSHARES INC (52%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%) EUROPE (91%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); GREECE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



586 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: Opinion Report: Student Loans

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page. 

 BODY:
Lawyers for the Roman Catholic Church are targeting the Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests, or SNAP, embroiling the organization in costly litigation.
The federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is right to take on the poorly regulated, private student lending industry.
Gov. Andrew Cuomo must keep his promise to veto politically warped and self-serving election maps.
While the jobless rate has declined swiftly, from 9.1 percent last summer to 8.3 percent in February, the slow pace of economic growth suggests those gains are not sustainable.

        
Opinion Report: Detroit
        
Opinion Report: The Tappan Zee Greenway
        
Opinion Report: Raising Taxes in Maryland
        
Ask and You Will Receive
        
So the White House Didn't Cave on Birth Control, Right?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (87%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (86%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (86%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (86%) Andrew Cuomo; Catholic Church; Jobs Report; student loans; Cuomo, Andrew M; Roman Catholic Church

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (84%) Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%) Cuomo, Andrew M

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



587 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: New Interest in Hacking as Threat to Security

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: An increase in reported attacks on computer systems that control critical infrastructure, factories and databases has prompted a new interest in cybersecurity on Capitol Hill, reports Michael S. Schmidt in Wednesday's New York Times. Lawmakers are being prodded by the Obama administration to advance legislation that could require new standards at facilities where a breach could cause significant casualties or economic damage. 

 BODY:
An increase in reported attacks on computer systems that control critical infrastructure, factories and databases in the United States has prompted a new interest in cybersecurity on Capitol Hill, reports Michael S. Schmidt in Wednesday's New York Times. Lawmakers are being prodded by the Obama administration to advance legislation that could require new standards at facilities where a breach could cause significant casualties or economic damage. Read more 

        
A Hacker Charms and Disappoints
        
I.B.M. Turns to Big Data Algorithms for Computer Security
        
Even Big Companies Cannot Protect Their Data
        
Software Helps Identify Anonymous Writers or Helps Them Stay That Way
        
Congress Asks Sony to Address Unanswered Questions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CYBERCRIME (90%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); COMPUTER CRIME (88%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (88%); DATA SECURITY (88%); BIG DATA (85%) Congress; Hacking; security; Computer Security; Security

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



588 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Live Blog: Obama and Cameron News Conference

BYLINE: JOHN H. CUSHMAN JR.


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama and David Cameron, the British prime minister, appeared at a news conference at the White House Wednesday afternoon and we live-blogged the event. 

 BODY:
President Obama and David Cameron, the British prime minister, appeared at a news conference at the White House Wednesday afternoon and we live-blogged the event. The heads of government discussed at length their not dissimilar approach to the war in Afghanistan, where both face disillusionment over the mission. Other issues raised were the ongoing economic sanctions on Iran and the conflict in Syria. 
1:04 P.M. | Obama Closes
On Syria, Mr. Obama says that "our natural instinct is to act" but that it is crucial to think through the consequences. His goal is a "soft landing" for the Syrian people as opposed to a "hard landing" that could end up in a civil war even worse than what's going on. And with that, he calls the news conference to an end.
1:01 P.M. | The Difference Between Syria and Libya
On Syria, Mr. Obama says, "Our military plans for everything; that is part of what they do." But Libya was unique, he says, because there was an international mandate. Syria is "extremely complicated," and the best thing to do is seek international unanimity that Syria's behavior is "contrary to every international norm."
12:58 P.M. | Cameron: Syrian War Crimes Will Be Punished
On Syria, Mr. Cameron says the only thing to do is to ratchet up the pressure on the "bloody, broken, brutal regime" in Damascus and to appeal to Russia (long a partner to Syria) to cooperate on the basis of humanitarianism. The war crimes must be documented, and in time they will be prosecuted, he says.
12:55 P.M. | Iran's Last Chance?
Sanctions are going to bite harder on Iran's economy this summer, and Tehran knows it, Mr. Obama says. "They need to seize this opportunity on negotiations," he says. There is no guarantee that the next round of talks will succeed. This is basically the same answer he gave at a news conference last week, when he was asked the same question. "The window for solving this diplomatically is shrinking," he adds.
12:53 P.M. | War and Public Opinion
As to the discouragement people express about Afghanistan in polls, Mr. Obama adds, "It's because we have been there for 10 years, and people get weary." But he again says the objectives are achievable.
"Anybody who answers a poll question about war saying enthusiastically, 'We want war,' probably has not been involved in war," he says.
"The vast majority of the American people and British people understand" why the wars are being fought, he says.
12:49 P.M. | Fiscal Philosophies
Mr. Cameron, asked about the different fiscal stances of the two leaders, acknowledges: "There are differences" - but says it is partly because Britain is not a reserve currency. This is shorthand meaning that the Chinese and other nations are not standing by to finance its deficit. But Britain is also making investments, and "we are both trying to head in the same direction of growth and deficit reduction."
12:45 P.M. | Obama: No "Sudden" Withdrawal
"I don't anticipate at this stage that we are going to be making any sudden additional changes to the plan that we already have," Mr. Obama says of the scheduled withdrawal from Afghanistan. That's the firmest sign from him yet that the recent massacre of civilians reportedly by an American soldier is not going to result in a sudden backpedaling. He leaves himself only a bit of wiggle room - and says again that there won't be a "steep cliff" to jump when the drawdown is finally concluded.
12:42 P.M. | First Question: Afghanistan
"Both David and I understand how difficult this mission is," the president says, after a question from NPR. Mr. Obama claims the Afghan forces are becoming stronger and more robust. And that NATO's goal is to keep that momentum going for the next two years, and to make some progress toward political reconciliation as well. "We can't be naive about the difficulties," he says, but repeats that a "steady, responsible" transition is crucial.
12:38 P.M. | On Syria and Iran, Both Are Determined
Both leaders say they need to end the Assad regime, stop the killing quickly and step up humanitarian aide in Syria. On Iran, Mr. Cameron is playing the role of loyal and equal partner. "As the president and I have said, nothing is off the table" when it comes to Iran, he says.
12:36 P.M. | Afghanistan Through British Eyes
On Afghanistan, Mr. Obama says it is important for NATO to wrap things up responsibly. Mr. Cameron says that the discussions have been "excellent," and says there has been important progress on Afghanistan, Syria, Iran and economic growth. He notes the high costs of the war, where 9,500 British have served and more than 400 have been killed. "We will not give up on this mission," he says, although Afghanistan will not be made perfect. "We are now in the final phases of our military mission," he says.
12:30 P.M. | Common Views, Up to a Point
President Obama opens with a warm welcome and says they have had a "good discussion." Mr. Cameron, he said, shares the view that the two countries play a common leadership role. He mentions their shared focus on economic matters, creating jobs and putting their economic houses back in order. (He does not mention that one of the differences between their tenures is that Mr. Cameron has been a bigger advocate of cutting government spending while Mr. Obama has emphasized fiscal stimulus, even while under pressure from the opposition to rein in spending.)
12:26 P.M. | While We Wait...
Let's get you all up to speed on the other public events Mr. Obama and Mr. Cameron had recently. From all appearances, both heads of government enjoyed the college basketball game they attended on Tuesday - both remarked on it (and the War of 1812) at the official welcoming ceremony this morning. The two leaders plan to attend a state dinner tonight as well.
12:19 P.M. | It's Snowing Good Relations
As the news conference is about to begin, the White House just put out a blizzard of statements about various forms of cooperation between the two countries: Issues include counterterrorism, volunteerism, veterans, global development, cybersecurity, defense cooperation, education and more.

        
At White House, Obama and Cameron Genial and Joking
        
Live Blog: The State of the Union
        
Obama and Cameron: Vacation Dreams
        
Live Blog: Obama's News Conference
        
Live Blogging the Obama News Conference

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (92%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); CAUCUSES (78%); WAR CRIMES (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%) barack obama; David Cameron; live blogging; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); DAVID CAMERON (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (57%) SYRIA (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



589 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Former Intern at 'Charlie Rose' Sues, Alleging Wage Law Violations

BYLINE: STEVEN GREENHOUSE


HIGHLIGHT: The former intern says she worked 25 hours a week without pay, which she contends violates state law. A lawyer from Mr. Rose says he is confident the employment practices at the show are appropriate. 

 BODY:
A former unpaid intern for the "Charlie Rose" show has filed a lawsuit against Mr. Rose and his production company, accusing them of violating New York State wage laws by not paying the show's interns for the work they performed.
In a lawsuit brought in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, the former intern, Lucy Bickerton, complained that she was not paid at all when she worked 25 hours a week for Mr. Rose's show from June through August 2007. Ms. Bickerton and the law firm representing her, Outten & Golden, said they were seeking to bring the lawsuit as a class action on behalf of all unpaid interns who have worked for the show since March 2006.
"Central to the show's lean production are the substantial number of unpaid interns who work on the 'Charlie Rose' show each day, but are paid no wages," Ms. Bickerton's lawsuit states. "The show's own Web site makes clear that 'interns are highly involved with every aspect of running a daily television show.' "
The lawsuit said Ms. Bickerton, a 2008 graduate of Wesleyan University, had various responsibilities at the show, including providing background research for Mr. Rose about interview guests, assembling press packets, escorting guests through the studio, breaking down the interview set after daily filming and cleaning up the green room.
"Despite the significant work they perform, 'Charlie Rose' interns are not compensated for any of their work," the lawsuit said.
Paul C. Curnin, a lawyer for Charlie Rose Inc. and a partner at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, said: "We will review the complaint and respond. We are confident that Charlie Rose Inc.'s employment practices are appropriate."
The lawsuit noted that unpaid internships have proliferated among many white-collar professions, including film, journalism, fashion and book publishing. Elizabeth Wagoner, a lawyer for Ms. Bickerton, said: "Systematic violation of federal and state laws that coverage internships appears all too common at some media companies. More and more unpaid interns are standing up for their right to earn a wage for their work."
Labor experts say hundreds of thousands of young Americans work as unpaid interns each year as they seek to gain experience and get a foot in the door with coveted employers or within coveted industries. But some interns and worker advocates maintain that many employers who use unpaid interns are violating federal and state labor laws by using them essentially to do the jobs of other workers and by not providing a bona fide educational experience.
Ms. Bickerton's lawsuit states that according to the New York State Department of Labor, "an unpaid internship is only lawful in the context of an educational training program, when the interns do not perform productive work and the employer derives no benefit." The lawsuit cites guidance from the state Labor Department that says: "If an employer uses trainees as substitutes for regular workers or to augment its existing work force during specific times or in general, these interns would be treated as employees."
Ms. Wagoner said the lawsuit was filed under New York State law rather than federal law because the state allows suits over wage violations that go back six years, while federal wage law sets a three-year limit.
Many employers defend the use of unpaid internships, saying that the interns often voluntarily and enthusiastically agreed to take the positions and that the internships are a valuable educational experience. Employers also often contend that the labor guidelines are ambiguous and largely obsolete for today's rapidly changing workforce.
Ms. Bickerton's lawsuit criticizes the whole system of unpaid internships, saying: "Employers' failure to compensate interns for their work, and the prevalence of the practice nationwide, curtails opportunities for employment, fosters class divisions between those who can afford to work for no wage and those who cannot, and indirectly contributes to rising unemployment."
Last month, Outten & Golden filed a lawsuit on behalf of a former unpaid intern for the fashion magazine Harper's Bazaar, accusing its parent company, the Hearst Corporation, of violating wage laws by not paying her even though she often worked there full time. Last September, the law firm filed a lawsuit against Fox Searchlight Pictures, asserting that it violated wage laws by using unpaid interns on "Black Swan" and other films. Hearst Corporation and Fox Searchlight have denied any wrongdoing.
Adam Klein, one of Ms. Bickerton's lawyers, said: "This lawsuit should send a clear message to employers that the practice of classifying employees as interns to avoid paying wages runs afoul of federal and state wage and hour laws."

        
A Debate Over Unpaid Interns
        
Former Intern Sues Hearst Over Unpaid Work and Hopes to Create a Class Action
        
The Breakfast Meeting: Suze Orman's Debit Card and a New CBS Morning Show
        
Charlie Rose and Gayle King Join 'The Early Show' on CBS
        
Charlie Rose in Talks With 'The Early Show'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); SUITS & CLAIMS (93%); LITIGATION (92%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (91%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (91%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (91%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (91%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (87%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (75%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); BOOK PUBLISHING (50%) charlie rose; Internships; labor laws; Rose, Charlie; Labor and Jobs; Working Hours; Labor Department (NYS); New York State; Charlie Rose (TV Program); Television

COMPANY: SIMPSON THACHER & BARTLETT LLP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (NYS)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: CHARLIE ROSE (94%) Rose, Charlie

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



590 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: Welcome to the Goldman Firestorm

BYLINE: AZAM AHMED and JACKIE CALMES


HIGHLIGHT: Goldman Sachs' new public relations chief, Richard Siewert Jr., faces a wave a criticism following the public resignation of an executive at the investment bank. 

 BODY:
It would be hard to imagine a tougher start for Goldman Sachs's new public relations chief, Richard Siewert Jr.
Just Tuesday, the bank announced Mr. Siewert's arrival in a detailed memo. A day later, an opinion article appeared in Op-Ed section of The New York Times from a Goldman executive, who publicly resigned from the bank and criticized it for pursuing profits over principles and writing that "the environment now is as toxic and destructive as I have ever seen it."
What a difference a few hours can make.
Mr. Siewert, known as Jake, joins Goldman after an extensive career in the private and public sectors. A Yale graduate, he worked at the White House National Economic Council late in the Clinton administration and then, for a few months at the end, was the last press secretary to President Bill Clinton. During the Bush years, he worked for Alcoa.
As a close confidant of Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, Mr. Siewert got a front-row view to the financial crisis and its aftermath.
Like the Treasury secretary, Mr. Siewert is an occasionally irreverent presence who privately expressed frustration with the actions and public griping of the major financial players, including Goldman Sachs. Mr. Siewert shared the sentiment among top Obama advisers that the government - the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve -- had saved the industry. But he also expressed frustration, behind the scenes, that major companies quickly went back to bolstering executive compensation and complaining about proposed federal regulations to avoid another such crisis. Among the recurring irritants was the fact that reporters, pundits, politicians and others identified Mr. Geithner - often in an implicitly critical way - as a former Goldman Sachs executive when Mr. Geithner had never worked for Wall Street.
He also worked to quell public criticism of the bailout programs. He was a force in the administration for winding down the Troubled Asset Relief Program, even as officials who wanted to keep the unused money for housing programs and other purposes. Mr. Siewert also worked to hasten repayments of government loans to General Motors and the American International Group.
Since leaving the Treasury Department last year, Mr. Siewert has been a stay-at-home dad with his young son and daughter in Manhattan. He starts at Goldman Sachs just as he and his wife Christine Anderson, who works at the Blackstone Group in public affairs, are about to have their third child.
Mr. Siewert replaces Lucas van Praag, Goldman's long-time public relations chief. Mr. van Praag, known for a rapier wit and tendency to lampoon critics of the bank, is retiring from the firm.
Even before the critical opinion piece on Goldman Sachs, it was always going to be an uphill battle for Mr. Siewert.
Goldman Sachs has been in the cross hairs of both Main Street and Washington ever since the financial crisis, having been painted -- fairly or not -- as the exemplar of Wall Street greed, excess and double-dealing. Exhibit A: the Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit accusing the investment bank of selling toxic mortgage products to its customers that the bank itself was betting against.
But now criticism of Goldman is flaring up from within the firm. Greg Smith, a head of the United States equity derivatives business based in London, wrote in his opinion piece in The Times that the bank treated its customers with no regard, disparaging them internally as "muppets."
Managing the fallout from Mr. Smith's letter will require some serious P.R. skills. It will also require Mr. Siewert, who only recently accepted the offer from the investment bank, to get to know Goldman's culture firsthand. Mr. Siewert, who will be a managing director at the firm, will report to John F.W. Rogers, Goldman's chief of staff.
Here is a copy of the internal memo from Mr. Rogers:
PUB-DATE: March 13, 2012
Jake Siewert Joins Goldman Sachs as Global Head of Corporate Communications
I am pleased to announce that Jake Siewert has joined the firm as a managing director and global head of Corporate Communications. Jake will be responsible for directing the firm's global media relations efforts and for leading our team of corporate communications professionals.
Jake served as counselor to the US Treasury secretary from 2009 to 2011, during which time he advised the secretary and also acted as his liaison to the business community. From 2001 to 2009, Jake worked at Alcoa, where he last served as vice president for Business Development, overseeing global mergers and acquisitions and focusing on growth in China and emerging economies. He joined Alcoa as head of global communications and public strategy, and later oversaw the company's global environment, health and safety efforts for several years.
From 1993 to 2001, Jake held several positions in the Clinton administration, including serving as White House press secretary, the US government's principal spokesperson on foreign and domestic policy. He also served as deputy White House press secretary and as a special assistant to the president for economic affairs, working at the National Economic Council.
Jake began his career in Washington in 1991 as communications director for the Democratic Governors Association. He is a 1986 graduate of Yale University, where he graduated summa cum laude with a degree in the Humanities. He also attended the law school of the University of California at Berkeley.
Please join me in welcoming Jake to the firm and wishing him well in his new role.

        
Live Blog: Reacting to Goldman Executive's Resignation Letter
        
The Volcker Rule and the Goldman Controversy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BAILOUTS (74%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%) Goldman Sachs; Greg Smith; Richard Siewert Jr.; Siewert, Jake; Smith, Greg; Appointments and Executive Changes; Public Relations and Publicity; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Investment Banking

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); ALCOA INC (56%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%); AAI (ASX) (56%); AA (NYSE) (56%); BX (NYSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (52%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (56%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (56%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (73%); BILL CLINTON (71%); BARACK OBAMA (53%) Siewert, Jake; Smith, Greg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



591 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: 'We Live In Interesting Times'

BYLINE: DAVID BROOKS and GAIL COLLINS


HIGHLIGHT: Santorum, Romney, Obama. Israel, Iran, North Dakota. Gas, oil. Now what? 

 BODY:
David Brooks: I know you and Rick Santorum are not exactly ideological soul mates, but you've got to admit there's something impressive going on here. Everybody counts the guy out and what happens? He works hard and just keeps winning.
Gail Collins: David, he beat . Even if Romney had been less weird during this stretch of the campaign, less like a really bad impersonation of a rich Duke of Hazzard, he'd be a tough sell in Alabama and Mississippi.
David: I just heard Santorum's victory speech. He's natural. He's a regular guy. I don't like some things about him and the way he sees the world, but there is a sincere, unstudied quality to him that explains why he appeals to voters. He does not appear to be silently calculating his every move. I know his chances are remote, and there is no way he could win a general election, but I don't completely count him out of the nomination race. I don't know what California Republicans are like. They could be his sort of people, and there may be more in some of the other big remaining states. It's unlikely, but it's possible.
Gail: I know a lot of Democrats who are praying you're right. However, my philosophy is that you don't root for the most awful candidate just because you think he'd be easiest to beat. Weird things can happen and I am not prepared to contemplate a President Santorum. Although I do like your scenario where Santorum gets the nomination, gets clobbered and forces the Republican Party back toward the middle.
David: Let's turn to the Democrats. What do you make of Obama's falling approval numbers? He was kissing 50 percent approval, which is supposed to be break-even for a president trying to spend four more years riding around in fancy green helicopters. Then he gets this excellent jobs report and a generally improving economy, so he's looking like Mr. Inevitable. George Will writes a column saying the presidential election is all but over. Then all of a sudden Obama falls back down to 41 percent approval or 43, presumably thanks to high gas prices.
Gail: My considered opinion is that the American voters are messing with us. They'll tell the poll-takers because they know there's no election for eight months and nothing they say now matters. Remember, poll respondents are the same folks who expressed intense interest in the possibility of a Donald Trump presidency.
David: My own theory draws from my meta-narrative about recent American political history. In normal times there is one majority party and one minority party. After the New Deal the Democrats were the majority party. After Reagan, the Republicans were. Then we went through a period from 1996 to 2004 when the country was basically tied. Now we have two minority parties.
Both parties are unpopular, while the number of disaffected voters grows. This kind of period is extremely volatile because many voters are not anyone. They vote against whichever party they hate most at that moment. Since hatred is so common you get these big swings. You had that from 2008 to 2010 and in mini form you had that with Obama approval this month. They were busy hating the Republicans all winter and then suddenly they remembered they don't like Obama either.
Gail: Maybe they just hate us for asking them to spend an entire year thinking about a presidential election. How long does it take to pick an American Idol? Four months? And think how boring that can be. Don't tell me I'm being flippant comparing the presidential race to "American Idol." This is a race where people have had to spend an extended period of time pretending that Newt Gingrich or Herman Cain might get to be commander in chief.
David: The interesting thing was that Obama's approval numbers dropped but his standing against Romney didn't drop nearly as much. That means a significant number who disapprove of Obama are going to vote for him anyway. That's not normal.
Gail: I think it's perfectly reasonable. If the version of Mitt Romney we've seen campaigning this month - the I-love-cheesy-grits version - is the nominee in October, lots of people who hate Obama's guts will wind up voting for him.
David: My view is that Obama will look inevitable several times before Election Day, and so will Romney.
Gail: Yeah, and somebody wins in the end by 2 percent. That's the way it's supposed to be. But we live in interesting times.
David: By the way, what is the Gail Collins energy policy? I'm not in the drill, baby, drill camp, but I'm pretty excited about the new oil and gas finds in North Dakota, Ohio and many other places. I had an amazing lunch with a fellow from Eastern Montana who described to me what life is like in the energy boomtowns. Basically, there are no dry holes. They stick a drill in the ground and energy comes out.
Gail: This is the revenge of the places with bad scenery. Doesn't it seem to you that all this new energy is lurking in flat, bleak terrain? Or does the terrain just end up looking that way once the frackers get through with it?
David: So now everybody in these places goes to work in the energy sector and nobody else can find employees. My lunch partner told me that when you pull up to the McDonald's drive-through the voice that comes to you out of the speaker is actually in Texas. He said retailers can't find enough employees either. So when you go to various retail stores, they can't stock the shelves. You just have these boxes in the aisles and you have to reach into the boxes, find what you want and bring it up to the cashier.
Gail: I used to worry that the economy would get so terrible I'd wind up flipping hamburgers at McDonald's when I was 75. Now I can imagine me stacking the shelves of the Walmart in Williston, North Dakota.
David: These are boom times up and down the energy corridor from Houston north. Obviously we have to find ways to use the fracking technology correctly, but I think we should be going full speed ahead.
Gail: Are those two thoughts contradictory? Going full speed ahead and also making sure the industry has its act together? They haven't exactly been open about what brew of chemicals they're pumping into the earth.
David: We've never talked about this, but are you a car person? I mean aside from your passionate views about what sort of mammals should be riding on top of them. I am the opposite of a car person. Once I had a tire blowout on the Ohio Turnpike and I stood around waiting to hail a cab.
Gail: When I'm on the road and I rent a car, my first move is to accidentally leave the lights on so the battery goes dead. I swear it happens every time. I am a subway person. I was just thinking tonight, on the way home, how wonderful it is to be in a city full of subways. You just go in and wait for a few minutes and whoosh, there's your ride home. Like having your own chauffeured car, except there are several dozen other people in the back seat with you.
So in a way I feel constrained from suggesting that the country would really be better off with higher priced gasoline that would encourage conservation, even though that's what I believe. Easy for me to say.
David: Speaking of energy, I've been in touch with various military and national security types, and when you're in those circles the talk inevitably turns to Iran. They've been gaming out what would happen if Israel struck Iran (somewhere around a 40 percent probability this summer, I'd say) and apparently in the ensuing feeling of crisis, gas prices could go up to $8 a gallon.
Gail: David, I don't understand how a person can be watching the Mets in spring training, writing a book, having lunch with people from the fracking sector, and also have time for multiple depressing conversations about Iran with national security folk. When do you sleep?
David: Eight-dollar gas would would wake anybody up. Prices may not last long at that level, but they may be high for some time. It would put enormous pressure on the Obama administration, politically, to end the crisis quickly, even if the Iranian program was still sort of intact.
Gail: Of all the really bad ideas floating around right now, Israel bombing Iran is at the top of my list. There is no way that works out well for anybody.
David: For the record, I'm against Israel bombing Iran. I don't think the postponement of the program is worth the cost - turmoil and strengthening the regime - but our opinion doesn't matter.
Gail: Well, if you look at it that way, we aren't exactly going to be calling the shots on hydrofracking policy either. I reserve the right to be passionately against potential actions by people who couldn't give a fig what I think about them. Otherwise, I'd only get to have opinions about my friends and family. And then where would we be?

        
It's Moderately Super Wednesday!
        
Super Pac! Super Bad!
        
David's Awesome Tie Story
        
More Dullness, Please
        
Apocalypse Iowa

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (66%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (62%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (60%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); HELICOPTERS (50%) "Dukes of Hazzard"; hydrofracking; Iran; Israel; mitt romney; North Dakota; oil boom; Rick Santorum; The Conversation

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (76%); DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); ISRAEL (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012



592 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: Takeover Defense, Goldman Style (Circa 1960s)

BYLINE: FLOYD NORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: How Goldman Sachs once defended a client's interests. 

 BODY:
It has not been a good day for Goldman Sachs, with an employee leaving and saying Goldman no longer is dedicated to its clients' interests.
That brought to mind an anecdote about when Goldman was much smaller, in the late 1960s. No one could say it did not do a good job of representing the client then, although the method was hardly orthodox.
The anecdote is taken from "The Partnership: The Making of Goldman Sachs," a 2008 book by Charles D. Ellis. The story is told by John Weinberg, who was then a young Goldman banker. His father, Sidney, ran the firm (as the son later did).
After making a lot of money going public with his own company, a corporate raider noticed that Baldwin United was selling at a very cheap price. So he took a big position and was going to offer to buy the rest of the stock at a price well above the market. Since the founding family's stock was held in a trust at a bank, the raider knew the bank trustee would be under terrific pressure to accept such an offer and sell the stock.

Takeover defense is something Goldman Sachs specialized in, so we were asked to help. After a study of the situation, it's clear: They've got a real problem. I have no great ideas about what to do to help, so I ask Pop for suggestions. At first, he's not sure either. A little later, he calls me on the phone and tells me to call a particular guy, and when I do, the guy tells me to meet him at Gage & Tollner's restaurant in Brooklyn.
I'm sitting there when this fellow wearing a black suit, black shirt, and a black string tie comes in and sits down, saying, "The only reason I'm here is I owe your father." I explain what I know, and he says he'll see what he can do. I don't hear from him for a week, then two weeks. Finally, he calls and says, "We've got him. It'll cost a hundred dollars - fifty dollars for the photographer and fifty dollars for the bellboy. He's got a cutie holed up in a midtown hotel."
A week later this same guy calls on the corporate raider and very respectfully says to him, "You believe in this free country, and so do I. can buy in this wonderful free economy." Then he starts spreading the pictures from the hotel on this man's desk, and says, "You can buy anything. But don't do Baldwin or these could show up in The New York Post.
Mr. Ellis reports, "Nothing happened to Baldwin United, and nothing was printed in the newspapers."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); RESTAURANTS (63%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%) Ellis, Charles D; Banking and Financial Institutions; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: Ellis, Charles D

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2012



593 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: Public Rebuke of Culture at Goldman Opens Debate

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG and LANDON THOMAS JR.


HIGHLIGHT: Criticism by Greg Smith, a largely anonymous 33-year-old midlevel executive who resigned Wednesday, sent ripple effects throughout Wall Street. 

 BODY:
Until early Wednesday morning, Greg Smith was a largely anonymous 33-year-old midlevel executive at Goldman Sachs in London.
Now everyone at the firm - and on Wall Street - knows his name.
Mr. Smith resigned in an e-mail message to his bosses at 6:40 a.m. London time, laying out concerns that Goldman's culture had gone haywire, putting its own interests ahead of its clients.
 What the e-mail didn't say was that about 15 minutes later, an Op-Ed article he had written detailing his criticisms was to be published in The New York Times. "It makes me ill how callously people still talk about ripping off clients," he wrote in the Op-Ed article.
The Op-Ed landed "like a bomb," inside Goldman, said one executive who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
The article reignited a debate on the Internet and on cable television over whether Wall Street was corrupted by greed and excess. By noon, television crews crowded outside Goldman's headquarters in Lower Manhattan. More than three years after the financial crisis, the perception that little has changed on Wall Street - and that no one has been held accountable for the risk-taking that led to the crisis - looms large in the public consciousness. While it was an unusual cry from the heart of a Wall Street insider, many questioned whether it would prompt any change.
Goldman disagreed with the assertions in the Op-Ed article, saying that they did not reflect how the firm treated its clients. Top executives have previously said that despite some rough times of late, clients have stuck with the firm.
Friends of Mr. Smith, who had a list of Goldman's business principles taped on a wall by his computers in London, say they were not surprised by his public farewell. "He has a really high moral fiber and really cared about the culture of the firm," said Daniel Lipkin, a Miami lawyer who went to Stanford with Mr. Smith. Mr. Lipkin learned about the Op-Ed on Wednesday from Mr. Smith. "He sounded confident and felt good about his decision to go public," he said.
Although he isn't highly paid by Wall Street standards - earning about $500,000 last year, according to people briefed on the matter - Mr. Smith is part of what some Goldman staff members and alumni refer to as a sizable, yet silent contingent within the investment bank. These people are increasingly frustrated with what they see as a shift in recent years to a profit-above-all mentality.
Evidence of this shift, they say, can be seen in the accusations brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission in 2010 that the firm intentionally duped certain clients by selling a mortgage-security product that was designed by another Goldman client betting that the housing market would crash. More recently, a Delaware judge criticized Goldman over the multiple, and potentially conflicting, roles it played in brokering an energy deal. (In both cases, Goldman has denied any wrongdoing.)
The reaction on Wall Street to Mr. Smith's resignation ranged from those cheering him to others criticizing him for resigning in such a public way. Some within Goldman sought to portray Mr. Smith as a lone wolf - he did not manage anyone - who had failed to become a managing director. (There are about 12,000 executive directors, the equivalent of being a vice president in the United States, but only about 2,500 managing directors among Goldman's 33,300 employees.)
Still, the ripple effects were felt beyond Wall Street. Shares of Goldman fell 3.4 percent. And media coverage was worldwide. "Goldman Boss: We Call Our Clients Muppets," screamed the front page of The London Evening Standard.
Others were less surprised. One Goldman client who spoke on the condition of anonymity called the letter "nave," saying that the firm had been trading against its clients for years. "Come on, that is what they do and they are good traders, so I do business with them."
Another Wall Street executive said it was "unforgivable" for Mr. Smith to make his opinions so public and he should have taken them privately to the firm's senior managers. While Mr. Smith may have tried to raise his concerns with his superiors in meetings, as a fairly junior employee, he did not have much of a voice.
Goldman's top two executives, Lloyd C. Blankfein and Gary Cohn, said in a letter to employees: "We were disappointed to read the assertions made by this individual that do not reflect our values, our culture and how the vast majority of people at Goldman Sachs think about the firm and the work it does on behalf of our clients. Everyone is entitled to his or her opinion. But it is unfortunate that an individual opinion about Goldman Sachs is amplified in a newspaper and speaks louder than the regular, detailed and intensive feedback you have provided the firm and independent, public surveys of workplace environments."
But questions about Goldman's culture persist at a time when the firm - and the rest of Wall Street - are undergoing a transition as the postfinancial crisis framework of regulations known as Dodd-Frank takes hold and as some profitable businesses show little sign of returning to their precrisis highs. It is not a hospitable environment for trading, yet Goldman remains very much a trading firm. Mr. Blankfein, a former gold salesman, comes from the trading business, as does the man who is seen as the most likely to succeed him as chief executive in the next year or two, Mr. Cohn.
Mr. Smith started at Goldman in sales. Born in Johannesburg, Mr. Smith is a grandson of Lithuanian Jews who emigrated to South Africa. His father is a pharmacist and his mother is pursuing a career in social work.
He won a full scholarship to Stanford and after graduating in 2001 landed a spot at Goldman, where he quickly worked his way up in the organization. A table tennis player, Mr. Smith won a bronze medal in the event at the Maccabiah Games in Israel.
He was sent to London about a year ago to sell United States derivative products to European and Middle Eastern investment funds.
What motivated Mr. Smith to come forward now? People close to him said he had high hopes for an internal report that came out after the S.E.C. case, which Goldman settled.
In 2010, Goldman embarked on an internal study that looked at the way it did business. The report reaffirmed the firm's principles and outlined changes aimed largely at bolstering internal controls and disclosure.
But Mr. Smith thought it fell on deaf ears among senior managers, his friends say.
"I think this was the ultimate act of loyalty," said Lex Bayer, a friend of Mr. Smith's from high school in Johannesburg, who went to Stanford with him. "He has always been an advocate for the firm, but he wanted Goldman to do things the right way. In his mind, this was the only way that he could change the culture of the firm."
He may not be alone inside Goldman. At staff meetings, Goldman's leadership has been peppered with questions about the firm's public reputation, say people who have attended those meetings, but who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak on the record.
Mr. Smith is making a considerable financial sacrifice in publicly criticizing Goldman. Most Wall Street employees sign nondisparagement and nondisclosure agreements before they join a firm. If Mr. Smith did, Goldman may take legal action and refuse to release stock options he has accumulated. Mr. Smith may also find it difficult to find work on Wall Street after such a public resignation. A spokesman said that Goldman tried to contact Mr. Smith on Wednesday. It is not known whether he responded.
Mr. Smith did not speak publicly about his decision to leave Goldman. On Wednesday, Mr. Smith received messages of support from clients of Goldman.
"You do not know me, but I am a client of Goldman Sachs," one of them said. "We trade a lot with Goldman and we know that we have to be very careful when we do so," the person said. "We understand your message."
People who have spoken to Mr. Smith said that he was flying back to New York on Wednesday night to see his family and friends. These people say Mr. Smith still has no concrete plan for what to do next. He tells friends that he wants to effect change in Goldman's business practices, although it is unclear what that change would be.
Recruiters say it may be tough slogging for Mr. Smith to find work again on Wall Street, at least in the near term.
"There is a rule of thumb when interviewing - you don't bad-mouth your old boss. No one wants to hear it," said Eric Fleming, the chief executive of the Wall Street recruiting firm Exemplar Partners Technology. "You can argue something like this needed to be said, but if you hire the guy who said it you are taking the risk he will do it again."

        
Goldman E-Mail Cited 'Serious' Profit on Mortgages
        
Obama to Wall St.: 'Join Us, Instead of Fighting Us'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); CORPORATE CULTURE (89%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%) Gary D. Cohn; Goldman Sachs; Greg Smith; Lloyd C. Blankfein; Wall Street; Smith, Greg; Banking and Financial Institutions; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Gregory Smith; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (58%) Smith, Greg

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012



594 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Loyal Opposition)

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: President Bush Weighs in on Keystone XL

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: When a politician tells you something is a "no-brainer," exercise caution. 

 BODY:
When a politician tells you something is a "no-brainer," exercise caution, especially if he's talking about energy supplies and energy prices. If there were no-brainers in this area, Americans wouldn't be so dependent on foreign oil and so worried about rising prices.
Relatedly, former President George W. Bush called the Keystone XL pipeline proposal a "no-brainer" on Tuesday.
Mr. Bush discussed the pipeline, which would carry heavy oil extracted from shale in Alberta, Canada, to refineries on the Gulf Coast, at an American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers conference (which of course was eager to hear dissenting views about the importance of bringing American fuels and petrochemicals to market).

He said the proposed $7.6 billion project would create jobs in the United States and bolster the economy, and that it would help reduce the government's current budget deficit (which he actually created with two wars and unnecessary tax cuts for the rich). "The clear goal ought to be how to get the private sector to grow," he said. "If you say that, then an issue like the Keystone pipeline becomes an easy issue."
Many other supporters of the pipeline project have made the same argument - that it would create jobs and give a jolt to a dragging economy. House Speaker John Boehner said it would result in 20,000 jobs, and Jon Huntsman prophesied 100,000.
But these claims are greatly exaggerated. The federal government estimates that it would create 6,000 to 6,500 temporary construction jobs at best, for two years.
Keystone would also do little to bring us closer to energy independence, since almost all of the gas refined on the Gulf Coast would be sent abroad, probably to China.
What pipeline supporters don't mention is that it would create the risk of environmental disaster, since a leak at some point seems inevitable.
Ever since the president rejected Keystone-while leaving open the possibility of building the pipeline along a different route-the Republicans have been trying to sneak amendments into unrelated bills to overturn Mr. Obama's decision. It's all part of an election-year effort to blame him for rising prices at the pump - which he has almost nothing to do with - and to promote the industry-pleasing Republican solution, which is more drilling in more places.
Here's why that policy makes little sense: The oil industry is not short on leases. It's currently sitting on thousands of permits not in production. If the U.S. oil industry sucked up all its proven reserves - about 22 billion barrels - and put it on the market, it would last this country about three years. Some people say about 135 billion barrels are technically recoverable, and that we should add those to the tally. OK, let's count them all, and that gets us to 25 years at current consumption. Not a long-term solution in my view. We cannot drill our way to energy independence. That's a no brainer.

        
Targeted Killing
        
Ten Years Later: Torture, Indefinite Detention, Military Tribunals
        
The Dark Art of Legislative Hostage Taking
        
Get the Whistleblowers
        
Opinion Report: Online Piracy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); PETROCHEMICALS (77%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (75%); BUDGETS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); TAX LAW (71%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (53%) George W. Bush; Keystone pipeline; Keystone Pipeline System

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBERTA, CANADA (57%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2012



595 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: 'Ecosanctuary' Plans for Wild Horses Add Tourism to the Mix

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
CENTENNIAL, Wyo. -- This was prime horse country once, in the old Western working way of bridles, bits and sweat. Leather tack from those days still hangs, cracked and preserved in the arid dust, on the wall of the 1906 vintage hay loft at the Wilson place.
Little other evidence is left, though. Horsepower on the ranch went under the hood and was called four-wheel drive. Horsehair rifle sights, once supplied to the United States Army from the Centennial Valley here in southeastern Wyoming, were supplanted by newer technologies. Horses became gentle, recreational and costly to keep.
Now the rougher version is about to return.
Wild horses -- feral descendants of the workaday animals that once toiled for the farms, the Indian tribes and the Army -- could soon be running the fields of Rich and Jana Wilson's 4,700-acre spread. 
This ''ecosanctuary'' project, announced last month by the federal Bureau of Land Management, which oversees most of the nation's wild horse population, could be the first of many if it works, federal officials said.
And part of the novelty is a reconnection of equine life and economic growth, making horses more than just a financial burden or a charity case. Sheltering a herd of 250 wild horses on Deerwood Ranch, replacing the cattle that the Wilsons once raised, is intended to be at least partly self-sufficient, through tourist visits, and to be a stabilizing factor in an area where working agriculture is increasingly threatened.
''It's new territory; we're still figuring it out,'' said Ms. Wilson, 49, who has lived here since her parents bought the ranch in the 1980s.
The effort, which is still under review but could start as early as September with the first horses, is coinciding with other developments that collectively add up to a new chapter in a strange and tangled tale that helped define the West. Animals that broke from the human yoke to run wild became a symbol of the unfenced, unbridled spirit, not least in Wyoming, where a bucking bronco graces every license plate. What to do with those horses and their descendants, though -- their numbers estimated at 45,000 or more -- has never been easy.
A contraceptive that can be administered remotely to mares, with darts, was approved for wider use last month by federal regulators; that will make wild horse numbers more controllable, but also, critics say, more artificial, their wildness further ceded to an accounting ledger in Washington.
A proposed partnership on public and private lands in Nevada that would shelter horses in larger numbers than the Wilsons ever could in Wyoming is also under consideration, but the inclusion of public lands is requiring more regulatory scrutiny. Federal officials say that greater public involvement -- open areas for viewing, less than three hours from Denver International Airport -- is a significant departure in itself from the past pattern of closed holding areas or remote open ranges.
''Our hope is that this would be some kind of boon to the local economy,'' said Tom Gorey, a spokesman for the Bureau of Land Management.
Federal policies on the wild horse front have pleased almost no one over the years. Animal enthusiasts say the creatures have essentially been treated as a problem -- harried and harassed through roundups for population control, and never regarded as a truly wild species, the way that, say, bear or elk might be. Cattle ranchers who compete for grazing rights on public lands complain that managers have bowed the other way, letting populations get out of control, to the detriment of agriculture.
A lawsuit in California could upend the entire system. The suit, now before a federal judge, contends that federal officials, using intensive measures to regulate herds and their impact on public land, have violated a law passed by Congress in the 1970s that requires management of wild horses and burros to be at a ''minimal feasible level.''
''Our argument is that the law was put in place to protect these wild animals and keep them wild,'' said Rachel Fazio, the lawyer in the case. If the suit is successful, she said, holding horses and burros in confined settings -- whether ecosanctuaries or holding pens -- would stop.
Meanwhile, a seemingly obscure biological debate is raising the stakes, and the uncertainty, further still. Should the West's wild horses be thought of as European transplants, descended from stock brought by the Spanish and later settlers? Or are they ultimately native, descended from a now-extinct horse species that evolved in North America thousands of years ago, before crossing over from Alaska to Asia to populate the Old World? The answer has profound implications for where horses, currently designated by federal managers as historical transplants rather than native wildlife, might go from here.
''The modern species of horse did evolve in North America, so it did exist as a native species at one time,'' said E. Gus Cothran, a professor of biomedical sciences at Texas A&M University's college of veterinary medicine, who has conducted horse research for the federal bureau. ''But it also became extinct here, and the animal that returned to this continent was the domestic horse, and a lot of genetic changes accompanied domestication.''
Does the trajectory after that -- wild, then domesticated, then wild again -- make them similar to their ancestors, or changed too much? Dr. Cothran said he thinks the evidence supports the idea of the horse as reintroduced immigrant, rather than native, but the fight goes on.
''We assume that horses in the wild are behaving as their ancestors did, but we can't be certain,'' he said.
That awkwardly straddled line of wild and not-wild will be felt here on the Wilson place. The horses will all be geldings. And the question of what should happen if an animal gets sick is unclear, too, Mr. Wilson said, with the terms of the federal contract yet unfinished.
''Do we treat a sick animal, or does nature take its course?'' he said. ''We're not sure yet.''
Critics of smaller-scale sanctuaries like this say the government is simply giving a new name to an old solution: storage.
''They're just taking horses, rounding them up at great cost to the taxpayer and putting them there and paying another rancher,'' said Madeleine Pickens, the wife of the billionaire oil investor T. Boone Pickens.
Ms. Pickens, who has a foundation called Saving America's Mustangs, is a proponent of a large-scale public-private sanctuary in Nevada -- under consideration by the Bureau of Land Management -- that she said could take in thousands of horses.
Mr. Wilson, though, said the idea of seeing horses live out their lives on his land, never saddled or broken, will complete, for him, a circle of where this part of the West once was and will be again, but recast in a way the old-timers could never have imagined. ''When I die, I want to come back as a horse,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jana and Rich Wilson, who once raised cattle on their 4,700-acre Deerwood Ranch, outside Centennial, Wyo., hope to be approved by the Bureau of Land Management for a pilot project to shelter a herd of 250 wild horses. The sanctuary is intended to be at least partly self-sufficient, through tourist visits. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: The project could be the first of many, federal officials said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSES (90%); ANIMALS (89%); MAMMALS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); ARMIES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); APPROVALS (66%); AIRPORTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (95%); NEVADA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012



596 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; DOMESTIC LIVES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Drawing On Inspiration

BYLINE: By CAITLIN SHETTERLY. 
Caitlin Shetterly, the author of ''Made for You and Me: Going West, Going Broke, Finding Home,'' teaches creative nonfiction at the Salt Institute for Documentary Studies in Portland, Me.

 BODY:
WHEN I was 12 going on 20, and mashing stacks of black jelly bracelets up my arms, painting my fingernails a frosty blue and wearing my hot-pink-and-black tiger print tank top five out of seven days of the week, I fell in love. Hard. With John Taylor, the base player for the band Duran Duran.
In those days, I lived with my older brother, father and mother in a small house in the Maine woods that my parents had helped build (though they never quite finished: we had plywood floors, plastic casing around our windows that peeled from the edges where the Sheetrock and glass met, and doors that didn't quite touch the jambs).
In my imagination, this affair I was having with John Taylor through the mediums of Teen Beat, Teen magazine and Casey Kasem's ''American Top 40,'' which I recorded on cassettes every Saturday morning, was the biggest thing going in my life. 
My friend Val and I fell in love together. She chose the blond Daryl Hall, as I remember it, from Hall and Oates. On the weekends, when Val regularly slept over, we would lie quietly in the dark in my blue spindle bed, the tall pines outside my window rustling in the wind. And though neither of us was asleep yet, we would dream about our love lives. We'd be quiet for five minutes or so and then say, ''I just had the best dream,'' and we would recount our fantasies.
Soon, we tired of something as ephemeral as mere dreams, and we started making blueprints for the houses we were sure to live in one day with our beloveds. Each blueprint was drawn with blue marker (we took the blue part of the word quite literally) on white, lined paper.
Because we didn't have enough room on one page for the palaces we would one day inhabit, we had to dedicate a page to each floor. So, for instance, my first floor might have an enormous foyer (pronounced, always, as FOY-yay, because it was that fancy), a dining room the size of most ground floors, a kitchen with enough space for our staff (obviously we'd have servants -- after all, John Taylor lived in England) and at least one bathroom, if not more.
I had a thing about bathrooms, because in our small house, there was only one, and it was upstairs and across the hall from my brother's room, which gave him better access. It was in the bathroom that I created my look, smearing aloe vera on my hair as gel because my mother wouldn't buy me the real stuff, and plundering her makeup basket, applying little rectangles of orangey Almay blush to my cheekbones and her black/brown mascara to my eyelashes.
Every house I dreamed up also had a tennis court, a Jacuzzi, a pool and sometimes even a sauna. Val and I did not easily tire of this exercise, although every blueprint had pretty much the same components. We drew and redrew, as if by drawing we could make our dream houses come true.
My ambitions to one day become Mrs. Taylor (and get a mansion to live in as part of the deal) were not just relegated to weekend activities with Val. When I had creative-writing homework for English class, I would fashion long poems, sweatily pressed into unlined paper with a Bic ballpoint pen, about John Taylor's windswept locks of hair and steamy eyes.
Now that I teach writing to graduate students, I'm impressed that my sixth-grade teacher actually took these efforts seriously enough to discuss the merits of my writing, rather than the ridiculousness of the topic.
Eventually, I began to turn my attention to boys my brother's age, showing up at his high school baseball games wearing a midriff shirt and purple eye shadow painted up to my eyebrows. My blueprints subsequently became houses I'd one day live in with Johnny or Chris or Jeff, teammates whom my brother had to tell repeatedly to stop gawking at his little sister and keep their eyes on the ball, for Pete's sake. My poor brother. He was trying to play baseball, about which he was fiercely competitive, and control, from the pitcher's mound, the inevitable and burgeoning sexuality of his preteen sister.
And then something changed. I was still making blueprints, but they became something else entirely. Now, using fancy markers in teals, reds and yellows, I started making plans for the house I wanted to live in with my family.
My parents' marriage was strained in those years, and something in me figured that if we had a location change -- a bigger house with more than one bathroom, a separate guest bedroom where one of them could cool off, a structure where there was more silence and privacy -- then somehow our family would not be in danger of falling apart.
We never did get the larger house. My parents divorced, and I'm not sure a different framework would have saved us.
TWENTY years later, in 2007, I was in my early 30s and getting married. By then, it seemed preordained that sometime soon, I'd have a house I could call my own -- with a white picket fence, even, if I wanted one. I figured that sooner rather than later I'd get to make a place into some version, albeit scaled-down, of my dream blueprint.
And then the economy wobbled. And then it slid. A year and a half later, I had a new baby and my husband, Dan, and I were broke, unemployed and moving in with my mom, back into the same small house where I grew up. Day-by-day survival was our focus, and the nest we made for ourselves in the back of that little house in Maine was our sanctuary.
Today we rent a two-bedroom apartment in Portland, Me., and our son is 3. The economy is, we're told, slowly recovering, though it may take years. We have one tiny closet and one bathroom. Our shared office is a small nook piled with papers and books and cordoned off with a baby gate.
From our living room window we can see the downtown skyline. From our son's room, if we crane our necks, we can see the ocean and out to Mackworth Island. We have no white picket fence, no rolling lawn, no tennis courts, pool or Jacuzzi. (Duran Duran, however, is still going strong.)
The other day, skimming through a short-story collection, I found myself pausing to reread Raymond Carver's ''Cathedral.'' It's about a blind man, Robert, who visits a couple in Connecticut. The narrator, the husband, is uncomfortable with Robert's blindness. He's also uncomfortable because Robert has had a long and intimate friendship with his wife.
By the end of the story, the wife has fallen asleep on the couch, her bathrobe splayed open (but it's not like the blind guy can tell), and Robert is holding on to the narrator's hand while he draws a cathedral on a piece of brown paper bag. As the narrator draws ''flying buttresses,'' ''windows with arches'' and ''great doors,'' something inside him releases and he is suddenly freed -- just by drawing those majestic architectural forms -- from the banality of his life and his petty prejudices.
Reading that story, I was transported back to those Saturday afternoons with Val, lying on the floor with our blue markers and notebook paper strewn this way and that, ''The Reflex'' by Duran Duran streaming out of my old gray boombox covered with stickers (''The reflex is an only child/he's waiting in the park/The reflex is in charge of finding treasure in the dark/And watching over lucky clover/Isn't that bizarre?'') as we made those floor plans for dream houses full of as many bathrooms as a preteen girl could need, and plush bedrooms in which we imagined doing things we didn't yet understand. And I had to laugh at the strange arc of life.
Here I am, 25 years later, no closer to those plans than I was then. But somehow I don't care anymore. What I have is just fine. In dreams begin responsibilities, or something like that, right?

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE DREAMERS: Caitlin Shetterly, left, and her friend Val in one of their many creative moments while growing up in Maine. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); ENGLAND (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012



597 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: How an Acquisition Fund Burnishes Reputations

BYLINE: By JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI

 BODY:
IF Alex Nyerges, the director of the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, has an extra spring in his step lately, it may have something to do with the $70 million gift the museum is receiving from a trust created long ago: $60 million of it was designated for the museum's endowment for art purchases, pushing that total to more than $156 million.
''It has changed my whole outlook,'' Mr. Nyerges said, relishing the nearly $8 million he can draw down each year for shopping.
It changes the museum's profile, too. The gift catapults it higher in the top ranks of American art museums with funds dedicated to buying art and, usually, ambitions to match. 
Although acquiring art is a core mission, private collectors donate 80 to 90 percent of what is on view in American art museums. Fewer than two dozen museums have sizable nest eggs to buy the art they choose.
A few more, notably the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles and the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, are wealthy enough to buy steadily by drawing on unrestricted endowments, but have no special funds for acquisitions. Most of the time, when art museums find an object they desire, ''we find someone who's willing to support that acquisition,'' said Dan L. Monroe, director of the Peabody Essex Museum in Salem, Mass.
In lean times like these, when museums are budgeting to the razor's edge, those with pools for art purchases enjoy a distinct advantage -- they are not permitted to use the money, usually about 5 percent of the principal each year, for anything but buying art.
''It ensures that the collection will continue to grow,'' said Philippe de Montebello, the former director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. ''It's always tempting to use your money for the activity of the day and to postpone acquisitions. But acquisitions are not postpone-able -- they are a matter of opportunity.''
On rare occasions, a few museums have taken the controversial step of seeking permission to break with the intent of the donors. Michigan's economic troubles have prompted Graham W. J. Beal, the director of the Detroit Institute of Arts, to get permission from the descendants of two donors to divert half of the annual $4 million payout from the institute's $74 million acquisitions endowment to operations.
Hearing the alternative -- more cuts in the museum's budget, which has shrunk by nearly 30 percent to $24 million since the 2008 fiscal year -- they agreed, and the courts concurred.
Still, the institute was able to tap its kitty in the last two years to buy a 17th-century amber and ivory casket; a silver and partly gilded nautilus cup made in Nuremberg, Germany, around 1650; and Sanford Robinson Gifford's 1872 painting ''On the Nile,'' among other works.
Who has money set aside for buying art, and who does not, has more to do with a museum's benefactors than with its size or location. The Currier Museum of Art in Manchester, N.H., has more than four times what the Seattle Museum of Art has: $35 million versus less than $7.8 million. That is because Henry Melville Fuller, a trustee, upon his death in 2001 left the Currier $43 million, half designated for the art purchase fund.
Likewise, the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston zoomed higher in the ranks -- with nearly $400 million set aside -- when the oil heiress Caroline Wiess Law died in 2003, leaving $192 million, out of her $480 million bequest, for art purchases. That money, says Gary Tinterow, the museum's director, has among other things enabled it to carve out a niche as a destination and a research center for Latin American art. ''No one else has this,'' he said.
Over the last two decades, many museums across the country have added wings, but few have had a patron like Bruce Dayton, a life trustee of the Minneapolis Institute of Arts. He insisted that money raised in the $100 million fund-raising campaign for the Target wing, which opened in 2006, be split 50-50 between the building and the acquisitions endowment.
That fund, now at $91 million, has allowed the institute to buy a rare early 18th-century Native American painted buckskin shirt and a nine-foot-long topographical ''View of Venice'' made by Jacopo de' Barbari in 1500, among other recent purchases.
With art costing so much -- more than 1,500 lots fetched more than $1 million at Sotheby's and Christie's alone last year -- not even the richest museums can rely solely on their art purchase funds. In the 12 months ended last June 30, the Metropolitan Museum drew $19.6 million from its acquisitions endowment, which totals $632 million, but spent $36.5 million on art.
High prices also explain why, over the last year or so, there has been a blizzard of art sales by museums seeking to raise money to buy different art. In one prominent example, the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston last year put eight paintings by Monet, Renoir, Pissarro, Sisley, Gauguin and others on sale at Sotheby's, bringing in a total of $21.6 million, to pay for ''Man at His Bath'' by Gustave Caillebotte. That painting, the first nude Impressionist work in the museum's collection, cost an undisclosed sum reported to be more than $15 million.
The MFA has an acquisitions endowment, which totals $141 million and provides about $6.6 million a year. But even if it had been enough, the museum would not have been permitted to use all of it for the Caillebotte.
These endowments usually consist of many smaller funds, each fragment having its own restrictions on the art to be bought. Mr. Tinterow cites one fund at the Metropolitan, where he was a curator for 28 years until January, that had to be spent on art costing less than $25,000 by an artist with no dealer -- yet worthy to hang in the Met. Largely unspent, that fund continues to gain value.
The Cleveland Museum of Art is one, perhaps the only, exception. ''Virtually all our money is in one fund,'' said David Franklin, the director. From a total of $277 million, the museum draws out about $13 million a year.
''Cleveland's DNA is to be a museum of unique and rare individual works rather than clusters of works,'' Mr. Franklin said. ''We are quite willing to spend half or more of our budget on a single object.''
The museum recently bought a rare, late 13th-century carved Chinese lacquer box (''as big as a base drum,'' he said) that is unique in combining naturalistic and abstract design, and cost in the low seven figures. It also bought two ancient Andean Wari works, a little-known culture. One, a rare painted animal hide pouch, portrays a human head and was made from 600 to 1000; the other, a ceramic vessel, depicts a dignitary sitting in a litter carried by four porters.
''My philosophy is to go big, keep the bar high and be patient,'' Mr. Franklin said. He says he plans to create a focus gallery for major acquisitions so that ''visitors will be excited by what we've got.''
Mr. Franklin abandoned plans by his predecessor to devote $75 million in income from its art acquisitions funds, over 10 years, to the museum's expansion. ''We will not spend any of that,'' he said. ''It's almost an insurance policy. Our goal is to fund-raise that money. It will never be spent on the building if my campaign works.''
Excitement by acquisition is also the approach taken by Matthias Waschek, who recently became director of the Worcester Art Museum in Massachusetts. The museum's $85 million endowment includes about $20 million reserved for acquisitions, giving him about $1 million a year to spend.
Mr. Waschek says he sees that as a nucleus to make ''transformative'' purchases that will raise attendance, just 45,000 last year, and plump up his buying power by attracting matching gifts.
Mr. Tinterow expressed similar sentiments, adding: ''Large civic institutions are about growth, and a museum like ours is a civic institution. It must be present in the marketplace and show the community what a great acquisition looks like.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RECENTLY ACQUIRED: ''Portrait of a Girl,'' a mid-1830s painting by Erastus Salisbury Field, and a late 13th-century carved Chinese lacquer box. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VIRGINIA MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS
DAVID BRICHFORD, CLEVELAND MUSEUM OF ART)
RARE FINDS: A late 18th-century Native American painted buckskin shirt, and a plate by Francesco Xanto Avelli da Rovigo depicting the Dream of Astyages. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MINNEAPOLIS INSTITUTE OF THE ARTS
 DETROIT INSTITUTE OF ARTS) CHART: Acquisitions Endowments of American Art Museums* 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); MAJOR GIFTS (89%); BUDGETS (77%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (55%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NUREMBERG, GERMANY (58%); TEXAS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012



598 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Museums; ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1853 words

HEADLINE: Rescuing the Stories Behind Latino Art

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
Some of art history's most telling monuments don't end up under museum spotlights. They're found, when and if they're found, in desk drawers and office file cabinets that no one has cracked in years, or in library stacks, or in jumbles of personal papers boxed up in an artist's studio.
They include letters, doodles, lecture notes, essays, newspaper clips, exhibition posters, out-of-print journals and handwritten manifestos -- physically vulnerable scraps and sheets that encapsulate the thinking of entire cultural eras but were never meant to last much beyond the time they first appeared.
The loss of such information-rich material is a chronic danger in any field, but especially so in the case of understudied art, which often means art originating in places short on archival facilities. Latin American art, until fairly recently marginalized by mainstream history, has long been in that high-risk category. 
Finally, a decade ago, one institution, the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, decided to tackle that problem by creating a digital database dedicated to preserving art-related ephemera -- the letters, the clips, everything -- from the Latin American world. Now, after years of planning and research, the database is up and running. It's called ''Documents of 20th-Century Latin American and Latino Art.'' It's on the Internet. Access is free. Type icaadocs.mfah.org/icaadocs/. And hello, history.
Traditional museums are archives by definition, focused on conserving, displaying and augmenting permanent collections.
The Houston museum conforms to this classical model, but with its Latin American archive adds something to it. The archive itself is part of a larger initiative that began in 2001 when the museum's then-director, the late Peter C. Marzio, established a curatorial department of Latin American and Latino art, and along with it a research institute called the International Center for the Arts of the Americas, or the I.C.A.A.
Since then, the department, led by the art historian Mari Carmen Ramirez, has done, superbly, what museum departments do. It has made important acquisitions and organized a succession of memorable shows. The sweeping ''Inverted Utopias: Avant-Garde in Latin America'' in 2004 and the recent ''Carlos Cruz-Diez: Color in Space and Time'' were, in particular, stunners.
The I.C.A.A., meanwhile, operated in think-tank mode, bringing scholars together from all over the Latin American world -- Central and South America, Mexico, the Caribbean and the United States -- to figure out ways to push a huge but neglected field forward. Everyone agreed that there was an urgent need for a digital archive to hold the kind of primary matter that all art history is built on. And everyone knew that setting up that archive would be a complicated and demanding task. And so it has been.
Neither ''Latin America'' nor ''Latino'' are unitary, containable, easily trackable categories. Both encompass multiple races, ethnic groups and types of communities, some stationary, some mobile and scattered over many countries. Researching them for the database has required the coordinated labor of hundreds of scholars, artists and critics in 16 cities on two continents.
Working in teams for the project, which is officially called the ''Documents of 20th-Century Latin American and Latino Art'' initiative, they scoured everything from major libraries to family attics, then digitally photographed and annotated their discoveries.
The depth and difficulty of research varied from subject to subject. For certain aspects of Latin American modernism, such as the early 20th-century Mexican Muralist movement, significant gathering and sorting has been done. By contrast, almost no systematic investigation had been attempted on art produced by many Latino communities -- Chicano, Cuban American and Puerto Rican -- in the United States.
Similarly, access to different types of material varied. Essays published in magazines were relatively easy to locate and transfer to digital format. Certain letters, typed statements and other ephemera often came to light only after dogged sleuthing and were age-dimmed and fragile to the touch.
One huge advantage of digital technology was, of course, that it brought items into the archive while leaving them relatively undisturbed physically. Another was that it finessed the prickly matter of possession. A treasured manuscript or drawing never had to leave the hands of its owners to become part of the record. It could be photographed where it resided and left there. The I.C.A.A. and the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, stated that they claimed no rights to anything found.
Along with salvage, there was other work. The archive was conceived as bilingual, so all the Spanish-language text has had to be translated. In addition, the project proposal includes the publication of a series of 13 printed anthologies to be called ''Critical Documents of 20th-Century Latin American and Latino Art.''
The books are compilations of historical and theoretical essays, most of them written in the Latin American world in the 20th century, with a few earlier and later entries. Under the supervision of the historian Maria C. Gaztambide, each volume is organized by theme, with the individual entry keyed to its counterpart in the database and pertinent entries there.
The complete series will be phased in, one volume a year over the next dozen years. And judging by the first book, ''Resisting Categories: Latin American and/or Latino?'' released to coincide with the ''Documents'' project's public debut in January, the series is an extraordinary editorial accomplishment. It is also, however, as it was intended to be, an extension of and supplement to the digital archive, which is the truly innovative feature of the Houston initiative.
What will you find there? Nearly 2,500 of the 10,000 documents that will be uploaded in stages during the next few years, with the initial batch concentrated on three areas: Argentina, Mexico and the growth of Latino art in the American Midwest -- a subject little explored even by scholars of a little-explored field.
The entries from Argentina offer first-hand evidence of some of the most radical avant-garde art movements in South America -- or anywhere -- during the 1920s and into the 1960s, movements that developed in parallel to, and sometimes in advance of, comparable trends in Europe and the United States.
Start at almost any point in that history and you'll find yourself heading toward total immersion. A search on the sculptor Gyula Kosice -- a founder of the 1940s Madi Art movement in Buenos Aires, which tried to shake up modernist abstraction with outlandish forms and weird media -- yields, along with printed texts, evidence of the artist's graphic skills in the form of jazzily designed brochures.
The entry for the artists collective called Tucuman Arde (''Tucuman Is Burning'') offers few visual thrills, but its cluster of mimeographed statements and yellowed news clips brings to vivid life one of the 1960s' most intrepid, if short-lived, art-meets-politics phenomena, a genuine proto-Occupy attempt, largely through the manipulation of mass media, to short-circuit the social and economic power of a military dictatorship.
And, in the nonlinear, one-thing-leads-to-another way of the Internet, this archive entry will lead you to others, notably sites touching on the careers of two Tucuman Arde participants, Graciela Carnevale and Leon Ferrari. Both are major figures in the history of the aesthetics of Resistance, and ones who all young artists today should know about.
The bulk of the material from Mexico dates from the first half of the 20th century. A lot of it is directly associated with the holy trinity of mural painting: Diego Rivera, David Alfaro Siqueiros and Jose Clemente Orozco. But also in the picture is a constellation of non-Mexican artists, writers and intellectuals who lived in or visited the country, like Andre Breton, Leon Trotsky and Edward Weston.
From Trotsky comes an adulatory handwritten 1933 letter to Rivera, which the artist later kept under wraps: on the one hand, he didn't want his reputation sullied when Trotskyism became uncool; on the other, he wanted Trotsky's extravagant praise on the historical record. Given the preponderance of male ego in the Mexican entries, it's nice to find a tart comment by the painter Maria Izquierdo likening the plutocrat-disparaging, commission-hogging Big 3 muralists to ''dangerous criminals just out of prison.''
The trove of Latino documents from Chicago is a particularly striking example of how an archive can help break art-historical ground. While some attention has been given to art emerging from the barrios of New York City, Los Angeles and Miami in the 1960s and '70s, comparable developments in the Midwest have been ignored.
The oversight is on the way to being corrected with the group of dynamic items assembled by a project team at the University of Notre Dame's Institute for Latino Studies based in South Bend, Ind. A database search on the Association of the Latino Brotherhood of Artists, or ALBA, formed in Chicago in 1974 to campaign for exhibition opportunities for Latino artists, brings up some knockout graphics, as does a slightly earlier A.F.L.-C.I.O.-published booklet called ''Museum of the Streets,'' with photographs of Chicago murals.
It's important to emphasize that the documents archive is still a work in progress and doesn't pretend to be otherwise. To navigate it, some experience with research databases is a help, if not required. Once you've signed on and set a password, simply check the images scrolling by as a continuous band on the home page and click on one that appeals, then off you go.
And it's important to re-emphasize that the ''Documents of 20th-Century Latin American and Latino Art'' project is the creation not of a university or of a private foundation, but of an encyclopedic public museum identical in all essentials to the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
Primarily for economic reasons, such museums have, in the last few years, been turning inward to reconsider their own collections, a good idea. The documents project suggests a way in which the same museums could simultaneously look outward, not by a return to old break-the-bank loan shows but through a judicious alignment of art-historical need, Web-based technology and a growing pool of willing and able scholars in blossoming fields of art history.
Does it seems counterintuitive to spend a hard-earned bundle -- Houston's Latin American initiative has cost $50 million -- on something you're giving away, like the documents archive? Maybe, but only in the short term.
Statistics tell us that by 2050, 25 percent or more of the United States population will be Latin American or Latino in origin. A high percentage of that population will want access to its history.
A percentage of that percentage will be artists, hungry to know who came before them, to know the art DNA they're carrying. I'd call the Houston museum's digital freebie a wise investment in, among many other things, an art institution's future.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RICH COLLECTION: Examples of the Latino art in an online database created by the International Center for the Arts of the Americas at the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston. (PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF GYULA KOSICE
ELMHURST MUSEUM OF ART
GALERIA VAN RIEL, BUENOS AIRES
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL WORKERS, INTERNATIONAL UNION
GALERIE DENISE RENE, PARIS) (F1)
 IN THE ARCHIVE: Artwork by the Argentine artist Kenneth Kemble. (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF THE PRIVATE ARCHIVES OF JULIETA KEMBLE, BUENOS AIRES) (F32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); ART HISTORY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FOOD & COMMERCIAL WORKERS INTERNATIONAL UNION (59%); THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%) ARGENTINA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (76%); SLOVAKIA (65%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (64%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012



599 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3143 words

HEADLINE: Is It Safe To Play Yet?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL TORTORELLO

 BODY:
LAURA MacCLEERY was four months pregnant when she parked herself on the couch and started an inventory of the chemicals in her Alexandria, Va., town house. First, Ms. MacCleery, 40, a lawyer and women's health advocate, collected 70 products in a pile: things like makeup, shampoo, detergents and sink cleaners. Then she typed the names of the cosmetics into an online database called Skin Deep, created by the Environmental Working Group (ewg.org/skindeep), a research and advocacy organization.
The results were not comforting. Ms. MacCleery's $25 lipsticks contained a dizzying brew of chemicals, including ethylhexyl methoxycinnamate, a possible endocrine disruptor. ''When I bought them, I thought I was doing something special for myself,'' she said. ''But then it turned out I was probably eating petrochemicals.'' The lipsticks went into the trash bag.
For some products, the site listed dozens of exotic chemicals and compounds. There were estrogenic hormones and neurotoxins and bioaccumulators. For other items, there was almost no information at all. What effects could these substances have on her baby? Ms. MacCleery didn't know and didn't intend to find out. 
By the time the inventory was over, ''I threw out, I would say, all but three or four of the items,'' she said. ''Everything was toxic. Everything.''
Ms. MacCleery had previously spent eight years working for Public Citizen, a consumer-product-safety organization. Following the birth of her baby, Maya, in the fall of 2010, she said she ''became obsessed'' with monitoring the health of her own home. How could she determine whether the wall stickers in the nursery contained polyvinyl chloride (PVC), a suspected lung irritant? She interrogated the merchant by e-mail. (Surprise! Ms. MacCleery had inadvertently stuck PVC above Maya's crib.)
''Professional experience showed me that neither corporations nor the government could be counted on to care for my family,'' Ms. MacCleery said. So she did it herself, establishing a shelf of environmental-health books and a regime of natural baby products.
In lieu of a hazmat Onesie, the household chemical purge may be developing into a ritual of new parenthood, a counterpoint to the traditional baby shower. Talk to pediatricians, medical historians and environmental scientists, and they will tell you the social phenomenon hasn't been studied much. Depending on whom you ask, it's a media-induced mass hysteria, an eco-marketing trend, a public health campaign or a stealth environmental movement -- possibly all of the above.
Forecasts from Mintel, a market research firm, say concerns about chemicals have made natural baby goods ''some of the hottest green-product categories.'' The mood of the times must be anxious, indeed, when an entertainer like Jessica Alba starts not a perfume line, but a subscription service for nontoxic baby products (the Honest Company).
Parents can consult Web sites like Healthy Child Healthy World (healthychild.org), whose mission is to ''ignite the movement that empowers parents to protect children from harmful chemicals.'' Or they can pore over safety ratings for children's clothes, furniture and toys at GoodGuide (goodguide.com) and Healthy Stuff (healthystuff.org). An online retailer like Oompa (oompa.com) offers ''organic and eco-friendly'' toys by country of origin. (Would anyone trust a finger puppet that doesn't come from Sweden?)
And once baby finally goes down for the night, new parents can fret along with the documentary ''My Toxic Baby.'' Or they can seek succor in a library of horror: books like ''What's Toxic, What's Not,'' ''Raising Elijah'' and ''Raising Healthy Children in a Toxic World.'' The title of one volume suggests the pervasiveness of the threat: ''Slow Death by Rubber Duck: The Secret Danger of Everyday Things.''
Margie Jacobs, a 41-year-old rabbi in Berkeley, Calif., banished all the usual suspects before the birth of her first daughter, Elana. Fragrant shampoo, dubious pajamas, flea collars, plastic food containers -- all gone. But the big clean didn't fully assuage her fears.
''I think there are a lot of places these chemicals show up and we have no awareness of it,'' Rabbi Jacobs said. ''Even for someone who's really careful and concerned about these issues, it's hard to get all of the information.''
Rabbi Jacobs's sentiment, echoed by many parents, recalls a slogan from the David Foster Wallace novel ''Infinite Jest'': ''Yes, I'm paranoid -- but am I paranoid enough?''
AMERICAN parents (mothers in particular) have forever worried about the health of their children at home. Sarah Leavitt, a curator at the National Building Museum in Washington, cites the early-20th-century campaign to banish the ''Turkish cozy corner.'' Referring to the latest science, domestic-advice writers condemned this tenting of draped cloth and stacked pillows as a breeding ground for germs.
Perhaps every era gets the anxiety it deserves. After all, many of today's hypervigilant parents grew up in the who's-watching-the-kids '70s, burning plastic bags in the backyard and spraying poison on anything that crawled. Back then, typical lead levels in children registered at five to six times today's average reading. And didn't most of those kids turn out (more or less) O.K.?
But what this argument misses is the wild proliferation of chemicals in the marketplace, said Dr. Leonardo Trasande, an associate professor of pediatrics, environmental medicine and health policy at New York University. ''One thousand to three thousand new chemicals were introduced into our environment every year over the past 30 years,'' Dr. Trasande said.
According to published counts, more than 80,000 chemicals go into American industry, from the manufacturing process in a factory to the end product at the big-box store. These compounds may be innocuous (like water) or pernicious (like methylmercury). With so many substances in the marketplace, it's hard to know. A chemical registry in the European Union, which Dr. Trasande cited, suggests the number of substances in global commerce is more like 143,000.
Hundreds of toxic chemicals, including pesticides, fire retardants and PCBs, can be found in the umbilical cord blood of newborns, according to studies by the Environmental Working Group. It's particularly unsettling to imagine how these chemicals might affect fetal development, as a single cell turns into trillions, said Dr. Jerome A. Paulson, a professor of pediatrics and director of the Mid-Atlantic Center for Children's Health and the Environment, at the Children's National Medical Center in Washington.
And from birth, chemical exposure only grows. Young children eat and drink more, as a share of their body weight, than adults do. They breathe more air. Playing on the floor, they absorb chemicals through the skin.
As the chemical load, or ''body burden,'' has increased, Dr. Trasande said, ''we've seen an increase in chronic childhood diseases: asthma, developmental disabilities, certain birth defects, certain childhood cancers. And these aren't just two trends that exist at the same time. There are scientific studies that have tied the two together.''
So what do we know about the individual chemicals that enter children's bodies? ''Really very little,'' Dr. Paulson said. We understand even less, he added, about how thousands of chemicals may interact in the human body.
Health or safety data exist for approximately only 15 percent of new chemicals submitted for approval to the Environmental Protection Agency, Dr. Paulson wrote in a May 2011 policy statement for the American Academy of Pediatrics. Meanwhile, tens of thousands of older chemicals -- those on the market before the Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976 -- typically require no safety testing at all. Manufacturers need only disclose possible health effects that they might discover through testing, Dr. Paulson said, which he argues has created a perverse ''disincentive to do any premarket research'' on potential toxicity.
More recently, the E.P.A. has tried to collect data for high-production chemicals, endocrine disruptors and roughly two dozen suspect chemicals that surround children. But these voluntary monitoring programs have led to few meaningful regulatory changes, Dr. Paulson said.
In an e-mail, Kathryn St. John of the American Chemistry Council, an industry trade group, maintained that manufacturers ''go to great lengths to make their chemicals safe -- for industrial uses, for commercial uses and for consumer uses.''
Ms. St. John, the organization's senior director for product communications, added that the chemical industry strongly believes Toxic Substances Control Act should be modernized, in part ''to reflect improved understanding of the way chemicals interact with the human body and the environment.''
But even under today's standards, she argued, the ''E.P.A. has full authority -- and uses it -- to demand additional information and testing, impose labeling requirements, limit uses to manage potential risks and deny the application for manufacture.''
The debate may seem suited to a slow day on C-SPAN3, but the stakes could scarcely be higher. In May 2011, Dr. Trasande published a paper in Health Affairs calculating recent costs of treating pediatric diseases of possible environmental origin like asthma, childhood cancer and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.
The portion of the total societal costs attributable to toxic exposures: $76.6 billion for a single year.
BACK on the scale of home economics, Laura MacCleery discovered that it's not cheap to buy a chemical-free bassinet. ''We had it made with nontreated wood, by Amish people,'' she said. ''I think it was 400 bucks.'' The organic mattress was hand-stitched.
''And then the baby was born large,'' Ms. MacCleery said. ''She was like 8 pounds 10 ounces.''
Maya outgrew the nontoxic bassinet in a month.
That purchase may sound frivolous. But then how much would you pay to keep your baby from being exposed to the formaldehyde emitted by some particleboard furniture?
Janet Golden, a professor at Rutgers in Camden, N.J., who is writing a history of the American baby, sees the quest for the perfect green nursery as a kind of second job. It's ''a status marker for women,'' she said. ''You have to have a lot of money to throw away a perfectly good shower curtain.''
Ms. MacCleery doesn't entirely disagree. She points to plenty of low-cost fixes, like using $1.95 porcelain demispoons in place of plastic utensils. Ultimately, ''What we need are rules and systems to protect her,'' she said of her daughter. ''Not this idea that we can all shop our way to some place that protects us.''
As it stands, every mother can seem like her own E.P.A. This is something less than an ideal system, Dr. Paulson said. The media encounters a germ of new health research, then spreads a contagion of fright to the public.
Lead, mercury, asbestos, cigarette smoke: these are proven risks. But should parents ''go to the ends of the earth to get every potentially toxic product out of the household?'' he said. ''If you want to do that, I guess it's O.K. But there isn't the science there to back it up.''
Some parents take up the research into chemical safety with intellectual rigor. Adam Zeiger, father to 6-month-old Eyal, is a 27-year-old doctoral candidate in materials science and engineering in Cambridge, Mass. His wife, Danna, 27, is earning her doctorate in molecular and cell biology.
Even so, ''If my Ph.D. process has taught me anything,'' he wrote in an e-mail, it's that ''I know absolutely nothing. But at least I can do my homework.''
Mr. Zeiger's inquiries have left him unconvinced about the toxic threat.
''There are tons of people and forums against this chemical,'' he wrote. ''Or saying to avoid that product. Or, 'Don't touch X, Y or Z because they contain something that resembles something, that came from something, that if used otherwise would cause cancer when given to rats in a million times higher doses.' ''
Heavy exposure to bisphenol A (known as BPA) is almost certainly a health threat, for example. But how much of the substance actually exists in a plastic bottle and how much leaches out?
Mr. Zeiger is even more skeptical about the benefits of ''green'' alternatives. ''Now, there is food-grade stainless steel,'' Mr. Zeiger wrote. ''But do you really know if the steel container you bought for your water was really made to the highest of standards?'' (Could this be the spark for a stainless steel panic?)
Besides, Mr. Zeiger added, he recently read an Environmental Working Group report that revealed a more surprising source for BPA exposure: cash register receipts. When it comes to chemicals, it seems, you can run but you can't hide.
He recommends that parents do the research for themselves and trust their common sense. Yet it's not always so easy.
Abby Wolfson, 37, remembers taking plenty of science classes on the way to becoming a pediatric nurse practitioner. ''But I can't say motherhood has done anything good to my intellectual capacities,'' she said, during a lunch break at her clinic in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn.
Ms. Wolfson started casting off cleaning supplies last summer, when her baby, Calliope, was 6 weeks old. At night, she whipped up recipes for wholesome cleaners, like a D.I.Y. laundry detergent she found on a single-mom e-mail list. But the eco-overhaul of her one-bedroom apartment in Kensington, Brooklyn, remains a work in progress.
On one hand, Ms. Wolfson bought a set of rubber ducks that purports to be ''BPA-free, phthalate-free and PVC-free'' -- though, at $25, certainly not free. On the other hand, she has yet to do anything about the stinky area rug that she laid in Calliope's room to muffle late-night howls. Ms. Wolfson recently read that if a carpet releases a smell, it's likely off-gassing volatile organic compounds (V.O.C.'s). ''And, of course, because I don't have a complete grasp of the details, it makes it sound even more worrisome to me,'' she said.
She could read more about the topic after Calliope goes to bed. Or she could go to sleep herself. How long can a working mom continue to spend her weekends mixing batches of natural deodorant, anyway?
''Time will tell,'' Ms. Wolfson said. ''It never feels like a phase to me. I've had my eyes opened to a lot of things that I'd never paid attention to. But now that I'm aware of them, I'm not planning on going back.''
NEWBORNS have no say about whether their rattle comes from locally harvested hardwood or 100 percent pure asbestos. But at some point, children start to shop for themselves.
With one child, it was possible to keep track of every crayon and every barrette, said Sarah Lozoff, a 31-year-old doula and childbirth educator who lives in Los Angeles, Miami and Ashland, Ore. (Her spouse is a touring actor.)
But with two children -- 4-year-old Naiya and 18-month-old Esme -- junk seems to materialize everywhere. ''You're getting things in goodie bags and birthday parties,'' Ms. Lozoff said. ''Things aren't always coming through you.''
And, she said, once you get a handle on one hazard, there's always another. For instance, have you ever stopped to think about all the electromagnetic fields in a wired American home?
''I know several families in Ashland that don't have wireless,'' Ms. Lozoff said. ''Or they only turn it on when they're going to use it. They unplug everything at night. Or they take batteries out of their cellphones.''
Could Wi-Fi actually harm the baby? Who knows. Let the worrying begin.
Protecting Children From Household Toxins
SO the world is a toxic cesspool and it's poisoning our children. What to do about it?
You could open a noisome can of air freshener in the Capitol Rotunda. Congress has been a graveyard for proposals to update the Toxic Substances Control Act, which by most accounts does an ineffective job of regulating chemicals in the marketplace.
If you don't like your odds of cleaning up Washington, start at home. The best primer may be ''Raising Healthy Children in a Toxic World'' by Dr. Philip J. Landrigan, director of the Children's Environmental Health Center at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York, and two other authors. It's a decade old now, and plenty of chemical scares have come and gone. Still, the book offers comprehensive checklists: for the nursery, the bathroom, the neighborhood and the day care center. How can you keep lead out of your child's sandbox? What nastiness lingers inside a toddler's art box? What do you know about your drinking water?
If you've applied all of the book's ''101 smart solutions'' and you're still worried, it's time to dig a hole in the ground and move in. (But first test the dirt for radon.)
It seems wrong that one particularly unclean activity should be cleaning. Along with a Healthy Home guide (ewg.org/files/ewg-hht-checklist.pdf), the Environmental Working Group proposes a few tips for cleaning products (ewg.org/schoolcleaningsupplies/safecleaningtips). You'll want to cast off your oven cleaners, antibacterial soaps, fabric softeners, air fresheners, drain openers and toilet sprays. What's in: nontoxic mixtures, like baking soda and vinegar.
Will they work? What do you think? Life is messy that way.
Sonya Lunder, a senior analyst for the group, highlighted a few other product categories it considers vexing. Traces of bisphenol A (BPA), an endocrine disrupter, continue to be found in most canned foods and on store receipts. Nonstick pans and no-stain fabrics often contain perfluorinated compounds (PFCs), which may cause numerous cancers and lower birth weights.
The flame retardants called PBDEs have been phased out of some computer casings and banned from new foam products. (The compounds seem to affect thyroid hormone, which is crucial for brain development.) But PBDEs may linger in foam hand-me-downs from before 2005. ''We cut samples of my own car seat and breast-feeding pillow,'' Ms. Lunder said, ''and they have these toxic chemicals in them.''
Some parents will want to stress out on a molecular level. With its lucid catalog of human ills and the chemicals that cause them, the Toxic Substances Portal from the Centers for Disease Control is a gateway to the dark side. Yet before you diagnose nose cancer in your toddler based on exposure to bubble bath, you can call an expert through the Pediatric Environmental Health Specialty Units. Or you can stick with your own neurotic Internet research.
The Household Products Database from the National Library of Medicine, provides chemical safety sheets for thousands of consumer products. Brake fluid, printer cartridges, dog shampoos: all there. Want to read up on the ''diethylene glycol mono-n-butyl ether'' in your barbecue-cleaning spray? Follow the links on Toxnet, and you'll be scrutinizing Japanese lab studies on prenatal rats.
Or maybe you could just scrape the grill with a wire brush.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN WEBSTER
STYLIST: ABY ALGUESAVA) (D1)
FRONT LINES: Above left, 18-month-old Maya MacCleery at home outside Washington. Her mother buys nontoxic toys, like this metal tea set, above. Left, Abby Wolfson, with her daughter, Calliope, in Brooklyn, concocts her own cleaning products. Far left, Adam and Danna Zeiger, scientists in Cambridge, Mass., have applied their skills to evaluate what is an actual threat to their son, Eyal, 6 months. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DARREN HIGGINS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BRYCE VICKMARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (89%); INFANTS MARKET (87%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (78%); POLYVINYL CHLORIDE (78%); CHLORINE (78%); BABY PRODUCTS (77%); COSMETICS (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); PRODUCT SAFETY (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (77%); GREEN MARKET (76%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); HISTORY (75%); ENDOCRINOLOGY (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); PETROCHEMICALS (73%); TRENDS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC CITIZEN (54%)

PERSON: JESSICA ALBA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012



600 of 1252 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: Public Rebuke of Culture At Goldman Opens Debate

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG and LANDON THOMAS JR.

 BODY:
Until early Wednesday morning, Greg Smith was a largely anonymous 33-year-old midlevel executive at Goldman Sachs in London.
Now everyone at the firm - and on Wall Street - knows his name.
Mr. Smith resigned in an e-mail message to his bosses at 6:40 a.m. London time, laying out concerns that Goldman's culture had gone haywire, putting its own interests ahead of its clients.
What the e-mail didn't say was that about 15 minutes later, an Op-Ed article he had written detailing his criticisms was to be published in The New York Times. ''It makes me ill how callously people still talk about ripping off clients,'' he wrote in the Op-Ed article.
The Op-Ed landed ''like a bomb,'' inside Goldman, said one executive who spoke on the condition of anonymity. 
The article reignited a debate on the Internet and on cable television over whether Wall Street was corrupted by greed and excess. By noon, television crews crowded outside Goldman's headquarters in Lower Manhattan. More than three years after the financial crisis, the perception that little has changed on Wall Street - and that no one has been held accountable for the risk-taking that led to the crisis - looms large in the public consciousness. While it was an unusual cry from the heart of a Wall Street insider, many questioned whether it would prompt any change.
Goldman disagreed with the assertions in the Op-Ed article, saying that they did not reflect how the firm treated its clients. Top executives have previously said that despite some rough times of late, clients have stuck with the firm.
Friends of Mr. Smith, who had a list of Goldman's business principles taped on a wall by his computers in London, say they were not surprised by his public farewell. ''He has a really high moral fiber and really cared about the culture of the firm,'' said Daniel Lipkin, a Miami lawyer who went to Stanford with Mr. Smith. Mr. Lipkin learned about the Op-Ed on Wednesday from Mr. Smith. ''He sounded confident and felt good about his decision to go public,'' he said.
Although he isn't highly paid by Wall Street standards - earning about $500,000 last year, according to people briefed on the matter - Mr. Smith is part of what some Goldman staff members and alumni refer to as a sizable, yet silent contingent within the investment bank. These people are increasingly frustrated with what they see as a shift in recent years to a profit-above-all mentality.
Evidence of this shift, they say, can be seen in the accusations brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission in 2010 that the firm intentionally duped certain clients by selling a mortgage-security product that was designed by another Goldman client betting that the housing market would crash. More recently, a Delaware judge criticized Goldman over the multiple, and potentially conflicting, roles it played in brokering an energy deal. (In both cases, Goldman has denied any wrongdoing.)
The reaction on Wall Street to Mr. Smith's resignation ranged from those cheering him to others criticizing him for resigning in such a public way. Some within Goldman sought to portray Mr. Smith as a lone wolf - he did not manage anyone - who had failed to become a managing director. (There are about 12,000 executive directors, the equivalent of being a vice president in the United States, but only about 2,500 managing directors among Goldman's 33,300 employees.)
Still, the ripple effects were felt beyond Wall Street. Shares of Goldman fell 3.4 percent. And media coverage was worldwide. ''Goldman Boss: We Call Our Clients Muppets,'' screamed the front page of The London Evening Standard.
Others were less surprised. One Goldman client who spoke on the condition of anonymity called the letter ''naive,'' saying that the firm had been trading against its clients for years. ''Come on, that is what they do and they are good traders, so I do business with them.''
Another Wall Street executive said it was ''unforgivable'' for Mr. Smith to make his opinions so public and he should have taken them privately to the firm's senior managers. While Mr. Smith may have tried to raise his concerns with his superiors in meetings, as a fairly junior employee, he did not have much of a voice.
Goldman's top two executives, Lloyd C. Blankfein and Gary Cohn, said in a letter to employees: ''We were disappointed to read the assertions made by this individual that do not reflect our values, our culture and how the vast majority of people at Goldman Sachs think about the firm and the work it does on behalf of our clients. Everyone is entitled to his or her opinion. But it is unfortunate that an individual opinion about Goldman Sachs is amplified in a newspaper and speaks louder than the regular, detailed and intensive feedback you have provided the firm and independent, public surveys of workplace environments.''
But questions about Goldman's culture persist at a time when the firm - and the rest of Wall Street - are undergoing a transition as the postfinancial crisis framework of regulations known as Dodd-Frank takes hold and as some profitable businesses show little sign of returning to their precrisis highs. It is not a hospitable environment for trading, yet Goldman remains very much a trading firm. Mr. Blankfein, a former gold salesman, comes from the trading business, as does the man who is seen as the most likely to succeed him as chief executive in the next year or two, Mr. Cohn.
Mr. Smith started at Goldman in sales. Born in Johannesburg, Mr. Smith is a grandson of Lithuanian Jews who emigrated to South Africa. His father is a pharmacist and his mother is pursuing a career in social work.
He won a full scholarship to Stanford and after graduating in 2001 landed a spot at Goldman, where he quickly worked his way up in the organization. A table tennis player, Mr. Smith won a bronze medal in the event at the Maccabiah Games in Israel.
He was sent to London about a year ago to sell United States derivative products to European and Middle Eastern investment funds.
What motivated Mr. Smith to come forward now? People close to him said he had high hopes for an internal report that came out after the S.E.C. case, which Goldman settled.
In 2010, Goldman embarked on an internal study that looked at the way it did business. The report reaffirmed the firm's principles and outlined changes aimed largely at bolstering internal controls and disclosure.
But Mr. Smith thought it fell on deaf ears among senior managers, his friends say.
''I think this was the ultimate act of loyalty,'' said Lex Bayer, a friend of Mr. Smith's from high school in Johannesburg, who went to Stanford with him. ''He has always been an advocate for the firm, but he wanted Goldman to do things the right way. In his mind, this was the only way that he could change the culture of the firm.''
He may not be alone inside Goldman. At staff meetings, Goldman's leadership has been peppered with questions about the firm's public reputation, say people who have attended those meetings, but who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak on the record.
Mr. Smith is making a considerable financial sacrifice in publicly criticizing Goldman. Most Wall Street employees sign nondisparagement and nondisclosure agreements before they join a firm. If Mr. Smith did, Goldman may take legal action and refuse to release stock options he has accumulated. Mr. Smith may also find it difficult to find work on Wall Street after such a public resignation. A spokesman said that Goldman tried to contact Mr. Smith on Wednesday. It is not known whether he responded.
Mr. Smith did not speak publicly about his decision to leave Goldman. On Wednesday, Mr. Smith received messages of support from clients of Goldman.
''You do not know me, but I am a client of Goldman Sachs,'' one of them said. ''We trade a lot with Goldman and we know that we have to be very careful when we do so,'' the person said. ''We understand your message.''
People who have spoken to Mr. Smith said that he was flying back to New York on Wednesday night to see his family and friends. These people say Mr. Smith still has no concrete plan for what to do next. He tells friends that he wants to effect change in Goldman's business practices, although it is unclear what that change would be.
Recruiters say it may be tough slogging for Mr. Smith to find work again on Wall Street, at least in the near term.
''There is a rule of thumb when interviewing - you don't bad-mouth your old boss. No one wants to hear it,'' said Eric Fleming, the chief executive of the Wall Street recruiting firm Exemplar Partners. ''You can argue something like this needed to be said, but if you hire the guy who said it you are taking the risk he will do it again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lloyd C. Blankfein, front, chief executive of Goldman Sachs, and Gary D. Cohn, its president (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B6) CHART: A Chorus of Criticism: Since the financial crisis, the investment bank has faced a wave of criticism from politicians, regulators, protesters and writers. Now, a Goldman executive who resigned publicly on Wednesday is joining the chorus of detractors. (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CORPORATE CULTURE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); LAWYERS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012

 
